FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20100503142025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
 
The documents listed below (the Documents) are required to be filed as exhibits to The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 (the 10-Q).  For administrative convenience and to avoid further increasing the size of the 10-Q, the Company is filing the Documents as exhibits to this optional Current Report on Form 8-K and will incorporate the Documents into the 10-Q by reference hereto.
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 

 
ESTABLISHMENT OF PLAN
On May 14, 1992, The Dow Chemical Company (the "Company") established the Executives' Supplemental Retirement Plan as an unfunded program of deferred compensation for executives, which included Part A for Non-U.S. Service, Non-Controlled Group Service and/or Non-Covered Controlled Group Service and Part B for a Select Group of Management or Highly Compensated Employees, Board members of the Company and Employees whose Benefits are Statutorily Limited.  On March 1, 1997, the Company amended and restated the Executives' Supplemental Retirement Plan (the "Plan") to incorporate the terms of the Enhanced Executives' Supplemental Retirement Options.  On January 1, 2003, the Plan was amended and restated to include other benefits in addition to those provided under the Key Employee Insurance Program for any Chief Executive Of ficers of the Company who return to executive management at the request of the Board of Directors as a non-executive Chairman of the Board (hereinafter "Returning CEOs").  On March 1, 2004, the Plan was amended to include other benefits for former employees of Union Carbide Corporation who transferred to the Company after the merger of the Company with Union Carbide Corporation and the liability for such benefits was transferred to the Plan, herein after referred to as "Prior UCC Program Participants".  Effective April 7, 2004, the Plan was amended to include the benefit provided to the CEO appointed in November, 2004.  Effective, December 31, 2006, retroactive to January 1, 2005, the Plan was amended and restated to comply with section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, ("Code") and to reformat the Plan document to combine Parts A and B.  Effective January 1, 2009, the Plan was further amended and restated to comply with the requirements of section 409A of the Code and official guidance issued thereunder, and to include provisions with respect to employees who have accrued benefits under the Cadre Pension Plan to the extent such employees ("Cadre Employees") earn Compensation while on assignment in the U.S.  On April 14, 2010, the Plan was amended and restated to make certain changes to the administrative provisions of the Plan.
The terms of the Plan supersede the terms of the Plan in effect prior to the effective date of this Plan.  For the rules that apply to the distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of section 409A of the Code) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of section 409A of the Code, see Appendix A.
PURPOSE
The Company desires to (a) to provide certain of its executives and a select group of management employees with retirement benefits that might otherwise be provided by the Dow Employees' Pension Plan, but for (i) restriction of the exclusive benefit rule under Code section 401(a), (ii) the inability to grant past service, under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan, to highly compensated Employees because of the non-discrimination requirements of Code section 401(a)(4), and/or (iii) the inability to credit service to Employees while employed by a controlled group member not covered by the Dow Employees' Pension Plan,and (b) to restore benefits which are reduced under Dow Employees' Pension Plan due to the statutory limitations imposed by Code sections 401(a)(17) and 415 and which are not otherwise provided by any other plan maintained by the Company.
 
 
 
INTERPRETATION AND GOVERNING LAW
The Plan is intended to (1) constitute an unfunded program maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated Employees consistent with the requirements of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), and (2) comply with section 409A of the Code and official guidance issued thereunder.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with these intentions.  In the event ERISA does not preempt state law, the state law of Delaware applies, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this provision to the substantive l aw of another jurisdiction.
 
 
4
 
 
ARTICLE I
 
 
"Administrator" means the U.S. Pension Plan Leader, his delegee, and such other person, group of persons or entity which may be designated by The Dow Chemical Company in accordance with Section 7.02.  For purposes of Sections 7.01, 7.03 and 7.04, the Administrator shall also include the Appeals Administrator and the Initial Claims Reviewer (if the Initial Claims Reviewer is not the U.S. Pension Plan Leader).
 
 
"Appeals Administrator" means the Global Director of Benefits or his delegee and such other person, group of persons or entity which may be designated by the Dow Chemical Company in accordance with Section 7.02.
 
 
"Average Compensation" for purposes of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit of a Prior UCC Program Participant who was in the Union Carbide Compensation Deferral Program on February 6, 2001 and who shall attain at least age 50 and have at least 10 years of Eligibility Service, as defined under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan, as of or before December 31, 2005, shall equal the highest three year average compensation ("HC3A") as defined in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan but using Compensation as defined in the Plan, without regard to incentive compensation, plus the highest three year average, as defined in the former Union Carbide Corporation Enhanced Retirement Income Plan (attached as Exhibit I), of incentive compensation averaged separately.  For calendar years 2004 and 2005, incentive compensation shall mean Compensation as defined in the Plan without regard to either deferred or paid base compensation.  This Average Compensation shall be used to calculate benefits as specified under Section 3.04.
 
 
"Beneficiary" shall mean that person or persons designated by the Participant to receive a distribution of any amounts payable under the Plan due to the death of the Participant.  The beneficiary of a Participant shall be deemed to be such Participant's spouse, if married, unless such spouse agrees in writing to waive this right, or their domestic partner, if in an approved domestic partner relationship (as defined in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan) (written waiver does not apply to a domestic partner).  If the Participant is not married or in an approved domestic partner relationship and fails to designate a Beneficiary, the amounts payable, if any, under this Plan due to the death of the Participant shall be paid in the following order:  (a)  to the children of the Participant; (b) to the ben eficiary of the Company Paid Life Insurance of the Participant; (c) to the beneficiary of any Company-sponsored life insurance policy for which the Company pays all or part of the premium of the Participant; or (d) to the estate of the Participant.
 
 
"Board" means the board of directors of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
"Cadre Benefits" shall mean the benefits described in Section 3.06.
 
 
"Cadre Employee" shall mean an employee who has been authorized by Dow Europe GmbH to participate in the Cadre Pension Plan and who earns compensation while on assignment to the U.S.
 
 
5
 
 
 
"Change of Control", for purposes of the Plan,shall be deemed to have occurred on:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This definition of "Change of Control" is intended to satisfy the definition of a "change in the ownership or effective control of a corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation" as defined under Code section 409A and any official guidance issued thereunder, and no corporate event shall be considered a Change of Control unless it meets such requirements.
 
 
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
 
"Company" shall mean The Dow Chemical Company and any other entity authorized to participate in the Plan by the Board or the Administrator.
 
 
"Compensation" shall mean the sum of:
 
 
 
 
"DEPP Component" shall mean benefits accrued under the provisions contained in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan applicable to the DEPP component of such Plan.
 
 
6
 
 
 
"DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits" shall mean the benefits accrued by Participants and Prior UCC Program Participants in accordance with Section 3.04 of the Plan that would have been provided under the DEPP Component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan but for the statutory limitations in Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17) and based upon the alternative definitions of Compensation and Average Compensation, as applicable, provided in this Plan.
 
 
"Employee" shall mean someone who is employed by the Company to perform personal services in an employer-employee relationship who receives compensation from the Company, other than a retirement benefit, severance pay, retainer, or fee under contract.
 
 
"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
 
"Initial Claims Reviewer" means the person, group of persons or entity responsible for deciding benefit claims under the Plan, as described in DOL Reg. s. 2560.503-1(e) (, first level claims for benefits).  The Initial Claims Reviewer is the U.S. Pension Plan Leader or such other person, group of persons or entity who may be designated by The Dow Chemical Company in accordance with Section 7.02.
i.e.
 
 
"Key Employee" means a Participant who has a job level of 820 points or higher as of his Separation from Service.
 
 
"Participant" shall mean:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Plan" means The Dow Chemical Company Executives' Supplemental Retirement Plan as set forth herein, together with any and all amendments and supplements hereto.
 
 
"Plan Year" shall mean the twelve (12) month period beginning January 1 and ending December 31.
 
 
7
 
 
 
"PPA Component" shall mean benefits accrued under the provisions contained in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan applicable to the Personal Pension Account or PPA component of such plan.
 
 
"PPA Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits" shall mean the benefits accrued by Participants in accordance with Section 3.05 of the Plan that would have been provided under the PPA Component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan but for the statutory limitations in Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17) and based upon the alternative definition of Compensation, as applicable, provided in this Plan.
 
 
"Restricted Benefit" shall mean the benefits described in Part A of Article III.
 
 
"Separation from Service" or "Separates from Service" shall mean a "separation from service" within the meaning of section 409A of the Code, except that in applying section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Code for purposes of determining a controlled group of corporations under section 414(b) and (c) of the Code, and in applying Treasury Regulation section 1.414(c)-2 for purposes of determining trades or businesses that are under common control under section 414(c) of the Code, the language "at least 45 percent" is used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place it appears.
 
 
"VPHR" means the Vice President of Human Resources.
 
Additional definitions appear in the Preamble of the Plan.
A pronoun or adjective in the masculine gender includes the feminine gender, and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.  The title of an officer or employee when used in the plan document shall mean the respective officer or employee of The Dow Chemical Company, except where otherwise indicated. The title for a person or entity who is assigned responsibilities under the Plan shall mean any successor title to such position as such title may be changed from time to time.
 
 
 
 
8
 
Each Employee shall furnish such information and perform such acts as the Company may require in order to maintain such eligibility.
 
 
A Participant in the Plan shall be entitled to receive a Restricted Benefit, a DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefit, a PPA Component Supplemental Retirement Benefit, and/or a Cadre Benefit, as applicable.
 
 
An otherwise eligible Employee shall cease to actively participate in the Plan upon the earlier of the Participant's Separation from Service, death, or receipt of written notification that he or she is no longer eligible to participate in the Plan.  Thereafter, participation shall continue only for the purposes of receiving a distribution of those benefits accrued and vested as of the date the Participant ceased to actively participate in the Plan.
 
 
RESTRICTED BENEFITS AND SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
PART A  RESTRICTED BENEFITS
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
The amount of the additional Restricted Benefit for Returning CEO is (a) minus (b) calculated as follows:
 
 
10
 
MINUS
PART B  SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
 
The amount of DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits payable to a Participant equals the benefit which would be payable to or on behalf of the Participant under the DEPP Component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan if Compensation as defined in Section 1.11 were substituted for compensation as defined in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan and the provisions of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan providing for the limitation of benefits in accordance with Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17) were inapplicable, less the benefit actually payable to or on behalf of the Participant under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan.
 
The amount of Supplemental Retirement Benefits payable to a Prior UCC Program Participant who was in the Union Carbide Compensation Deferral Program on February 6, 2001 and who shall attain at least age 50 and have at least 10 years of Eligibility Service, as defined under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan, as of or before December 31, 2005, equals the greater of the benefit calculated under the above paragraph or the benefit calculated as of December 31, 2005 which would be payable to or on behalf of the Participant under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan if Average Compensation as defined in Section 1.03 of the Plan were substituted for compensation as defined in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan under the formula of Section 4.1(b)(iii) or Section 4.5(b)(iii) of the Union Carbide Employees' Pension Plan, as applicable, and the provisions ofthe Dow Employees' Pension Plan providing for the limitation of benefits in accordance with section 415 and 401(a)(17) of the Code were inapplicable, less the benefit actually payable to or on behalf of the Participant under in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan. 
 
 
 
A Participant's vested interest in his or her DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefit calculated under this Section 3.04 (vesting percentage) shall be determined in accordance with the applicable vesting schedule in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan.
i.e.,
 
 
The amount of PPA Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits payable to a Participant equals the benefit which would be payable to or on behalf of the Participant under the PPA Component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan if Compensation as defined in Section 1.11 were substituted for compensation as defined in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan and the provisions of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan providing for the limitation of benefits in accordance with Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17) were inapplicable, less the benefit actually payable to or on behalf of the Participant under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan.
 
A Participant's vested interest in his or her PPA Component Supplemental Retirement Benefit calculated under this Section 3.05 (, vesting percentage) shall be determined in accordance with the applicable vesting schedule in Dow Employees' Pension Plan.
i.e.
 
 
11
 
PART C  CADRE EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
 
A Cadre Employee on assignment to the U.S. will receive the same defined benefit accrual schedule with respect to his or her service in the U.S. as would have applied under the Cadre Pension Plan if such individual had continued working outside of the U.S. (including death and disability benefits).  This Cadre Benefit shall be determined in accordance with Section 3.4 of the Cadre Pension Plan, based solely on the U.S. credited service, highest consecutive three-year average compensation, and U.S. annual accrual rate; provided, however, that the amount payable under this Plan shall also include any pay roll-up on the Cadre Pension Plan benefit if such benefit is determined using U.S. sourced compensation. 
 
PART D  ESRP BENEFITS
 
 
For any Participant, the ESRP benefit under this Plan shall be the sum of the value of (i) supplemental retirement benefits under Section 3.04 or 3.05, (ii) Cadre Employee benefits under Section 3.06, (iii) returning CEO benefits under Section 3.03, and (iv) Restricted Benefits under Section 3.01, as applicable.  For this purpose, actuarial equivalence under this Plan shall be determined using the applicable actuarial factors contained in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan as of the determination date.
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the special rules provided in this Section 4.01, a Participant's vested Restricted Benefits, vested DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits, and/or vested Cadre Benefits accrued under the Plan shall be payable in one of the actuarially equivalent life annuities described below.  In the event the Participant does not select a form of payment, the following default provisions will apply.  If a Participant is married or has a domestic partner (as defined in the Dow Employees' Pension Plan) when the Participant Separates from Service, then the Participant's vested Restricted Benefits, vested DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits, and/or vested Cadre Benefits shall be paid in the form of a 100 % joint and survivor annuity.  If a Participant does not have a spouse or domestic partn er when the Participant Separates from Service, then the Participant's vested Restricted Benefit, vested DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits, and/or vested Cadre Benefits shall be paid in the form of a single life annuity.  A Participant may elect an optional form of payment from the list of actuarially equivalent life annuities (within the meaning of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)) described below.  The election of an optional form of payment by the Participant shall be made without regard to the timing or form of payment elected by the Participant under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan and must occur prior to the month in whichbenefit payments under the Plan are scheduled to commence.
 
 
12
 
The optional forms of payment are:
A.           Single life annuity
B.           50% joint and survivor annuity
C.           100% joint and survivor annuity
The Guaranteed Payout Option is an additional option elected in conjunction with one of the life annuities otherwise available as a form of distribution under the Plan. The Guaranteed Payout Option provides reduced benefits that are payable monthly during the Participant's and surviving annuitant's lifetime(s), with any remaining guaranteed payout amount paid in the form of a single lump sum payment in the first month following the death of the last annuitant.   Unless a Participant has (i) accrued less than 10 years of Eligibility or Vesting Service (as determined under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan) and (ii) is considered Totally Disabled as defined under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan, a Participant may elect the Guaranteed Payout Option.
The amount of the guaranteed payout shall equal the excess, if any, of (i) the Participant's account balance from a vested Restricted Benefit or a vested DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefitdetermined on the date the Participant Separates from Service over (ii) the sum of all monthly benefits payments made before the date of death of the last annuitant to die. The Guaranteed Payout amount shall be paid to the Participant's remaining Beneficiary as determined in Section 1.07.
 
ii.           
PPA Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits
A Participant's vested PPA Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits payable under the Plan shall be paid in the form of a single lump sum payment following the Participant's Separation from Service.  Payment of the PPA Component Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be made without regard to the timing or form of payment elected by the Participant under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan.
Notwithstanding the provisions in this Section 4.01, if the present value of the sum of a Participant's vested Restricted Benefits, vested DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits, and/or vested Cadre Benefits under this Plan as of the date the Participant Separates from Service, is equal to or less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000), such benefits will instead be paid as a single lump sum payment at the time provided in Section 4.01(b)(iii).
Subject to the delay for Key Employees, vested Restricted Benefits, vested DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits, and vested Cadre Benefits accrued under the Plan shall be payable commencing in the first month following the Participant's Separation from Service.
 
13
 
Subject to the delay for Key Employees, a Participant's vested Restricted Benefits, vested DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits, and/or vested Cadre Benefits that satisfy the description of small benefits in Section 4.01(a)(iii) shall be paid as a single lump sum in the third month following the Participant's Separation from Service.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Participant is a Key Employee upon the Participant's Separation from Service, any distribution of benefits under the Plan shall be delayed until the seventh month following the date of the Participant's Separation from Service (or if earlier, the date of the Participant's death).  Amounts otherwise payable to the Participant during such period of delay shall be accumulated and paid in the seventh month following the Participant's Separation from Service, along with interest on the delayed payments.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control, a Participant's vested Restricted Benefits, vested DEPP Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits, vested PPA Component Supplemental Retirement Benefits, and/or vested Cadre Benefits accrued under this Plan shall become payable immediately and shall be paid as a single lump sum payment within ninety (90) days of the Change of Control, provided that the Participant shall not be able to designate the tax year in which such lump sum payment will occur.
 
14
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment to a Participant under the Plan shall be delayed upon the Committee's reasonable anticipation of one or more of the following events:
provided, that any payment delayed pursuant to this Section 4.01 shall be paid in accordance with Code section 409A and any official guidance issued thereunder.
 
 
 
The entire cost of providing benefits under the Plan shall be paid by the Company out of its current operating budget, and the Company shall not be required under any circumstances to fund its obligations under the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may, at its sole option, informally fund its obligations under the Plan in whole or in part by the creation of book reserves, the establishment of a grantor trust, the purchase of insurance and other assets, or by other means.  In no event shall any Participant or Beneficiary have any incidents of ownership to any such insurance contracts or other assets.  In addition, no Participant or Beneficiary shall be named a beneficiary under any such insurance contract.  If the Company informally funds the Plan, in whole or in part, the manner of such informal funding and the continuance or discontinuance of such informal funding shall be the sole decision of the Company.
 
 
The Participant, and/or Beneficiary, shall be regarded as an unsecured general creditor of the Company with respect to any rights derived by the Participant, and/or Beneficiary, from the existence of this Plan.  Title to and beneficial ownership of any Company assets (including any assets that may be held in trust) which may be used to satisfy the Company's obligation for payment of Restricted Benefits and Supplemental Retirement Benefits shall remain solely the property of the Company.
 
 
Nothing in this Plan shall constitute the creation of a trust or other fiduciary relationship between the Company, its agents, representatives or other Employees dealing with the Plan and the Participant, Beneficiary or any other person.  The obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay.
 
 
No interest of any person in, or right to receive a distribution under, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor or right to receive a distribution be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person.  The obligations and rights of the Company under this Plan may be encumbered in the event of the Company's insolvency.
may such interest
 
 
 
15
 
ARTICLE VI
 
 
 
This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, participating Employees and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, personal representatives, executors, administrators, Beneficiaries, and legatees.
 
 
This document constitutes the entire Plan and no representations or other actions by a Company Employee or representative may modify the rights and obligations set forth in the Plan.
 
 
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed as an employment contract or as a guarantee of employment for any period of time.
 
 
In the event that ERISA does not preempt state law, the state law of Michigan applies.
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company reserves the right to terminate the Plan completely subject to the conditions set forth below.  Such termination shall have prospective application only and shall not reduce or impair a Participant's right to benefits accrued and vested under the Plan as of the date of termination.  Each Participant shall receive written note of the termination of the Plan describing the action taken in detail.  Any plan termination made pursuant to this Section 6.05 shall be performed in a manner consistent with the requirements of Code section 409A and any regulations or other applicable guidance issued thereunder.
 
Except as provided in the next sentence, no amendment or termination of the Plan shall adversely affect the rights of any Participant to any amounts accrued and vested under this Plan as of the effective date of such amendment or termination.  Upon termination of the Plan, distributions under this Plan shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in Article IV, unless the Company determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination in accordance with the requirements under Code section 409A.  Upon termination of the Plan, no further benefit accruals under Article III shall be permitted.
 
 
The Board or its delegee may amend or modify the Plan at any time, and the President, Chief Financial Officer and VPHR, each acting individually, may amend or modify the Plan at any time.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing:  (i) an amendment that affects only Section 16 Employees, as defined by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and determined by the Administrator, shall not be valid unless it is adopted or approved by the Board; (ii) any amendment shall have prospective application only and shall not reduce or impair a Participant's right to benefits accrued and vested under the Plan as of the date such amendment is made; and (iii) no amendment of the Plan shall apply to amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts.  The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" to am ounts that are "grandfathered" and exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A.
 
Each Participant shall receive written notice of the amendment or termination of the Plan describing the action taken in detail.
 
 
16
 
The authority of the President, Chief Financial Officer and VPHR, to amend or modify the Plan under this Section 6.06 may not be delegated.
 
 
The Company shall have the right to withhold taxes from any payments made pursuant to the Plan, or make such other provisions as it deems necessary or appropriate to satisfy its obligations to withhold federal, state, local or foreign income or other taxes incurred by reason of payments pursuant to the Plan.  In lieu thereof, the Company shall have the right, to the extent permitted by Code section 409A and other provisions of law, to withhold the amount of such taxes from any other sums due or to become due from the Company to the Participant or any Beneficiary upon such terms and conditions as the Company may prescribe.  The Company may also accelerate and pay a portion of a Participant's benefits in a lump sum equal to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act ("FICA") tax imposed and the income tax withholding re lated to such FICA amounts.
 
 
If any overpayment of benefits is made under this Plan, the amount of the overpayment must be refunded.
 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of any agreement that was entered into with a Participant on or before December 31, 2008, the terms of Article III shall control the accrual of any benefits under this Plan and the terms of Article IV shall control the payment of any benefits under this Plan.  The terms of Articles III and IV shall supersede the applicable terms of any such agreements that purported to control the accrual and payment of nonqualified deferred compensation benefits under this Plan.
 
 
The title of any person or entity who is assigned responsibilities under the Plan shall include any successor title to such position as such title may be changed from time to time.
 
 
 
 
The Administrator shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan and shall see that the Plan is carried out in accordance with its terms.  However, any discretionary actions regarding Section 16 Employees, as defined by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and determined by the Administrator, are reserved for the Board.
 
 
Except as provided in Section 7.02, the responsibility and authority of the Administrator shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following duties and powers:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company may designate one or more persons or entities to serve as an Administrator of the Plan, in addition to or in lieu of the Administrator named in the plan document, through an action of the Board or through a written designation signed by the VPHR, the Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, the Global Director of Benefits, each acting individually, or such other person as the Board shall designate.  Any such designation of additional Administrators shall set forth in general or specific terms such person's or entity's responsibilities and authority.
 
In addition, each Administrator may designate other persons to carry out its responsibilities under the Plan in a writing that sets forth the responsibilities assigned to the delegee and, if applicable, the period for which such delegation shall be in effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company agrees to indemnify and to defend to the fullest extent permitted by law any employee or former employee of the Companyor entity within the Companys controlled group (a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of section 414(b) or section 414(c) of the Code)who is serving or has served as an Administrator or who is acting or has acted on behalf of an Administrator against all liabilities, damages, costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees and amounts paid in settlement of any claims approved by the Company) occasioned by any act or omission to act in connection with the Plan, if such act or omission is in good faith.  This limitations period replaces and supersedes any limitation period ending at a later time that might otherwise be deemed applicable under state or federal law in the absence of this Section 7.04.
 
 
 
 
If a Participant or Beneficiary ("claimant") makes a written request alleging a right to receive payments under this Plan or alleging a right to receive an adjustment in benefits being paid under this Plan, such actions shall be treated as a claim for benefits.  Benefits under this Plan shall be payable only if the Initial Claims Reviewer or the Appeals Administrator, as the case may be, determines, in its sole discretion, that a claimant is entitled to them.
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
A claim for benefits under the Plan (including a claim that the claimant is eligible to participate in the Plan) may not be filed in any court:
 
 
 
19
 
 
This limitations period replaces and supersedes any limitation period ending at a later time that might otherwise be deemed applicable under state or federal law in the absence of this Section 7.06.
 
 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, any putative class action lawsuit relating to the Plan shall be filed in the jurisdiction in which the Plan is principally administered or the jurisdiction in which the largest number of putative class members resides.  If any such putative class action is filed in a different jurisdiction, or if any non-class action filed in a different jurisdiction is subsequently amended or altered to include class action allegations, then the Plan, all parties to such action that are related to the Plan (such as the Administrator) and all alleged Participants and Beneficiaries shall take all necessary steps to have the action removed to, transferred to or re-filed in a jurisdiction described in the first sentence of this Section 7.07.  This forum selection provision is waived if no party invokes it within 120 days of the filing of a putative class action or the assertion of class action allegations.  This provision does not relieve any putative class member from any obligation existing under the Plan or by law to exhaust administrative remedies before initiating litigation.
 
, the Company has caused this amended and restated Plan document to be executed in its name and on its behalf by its officers duly authorized on this 14th day of April, 2010.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
 
APPENDIX A
 
Distribution of amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A shall be made in accordance with the Plan terms as in effect on October 3, 2004, as attached hereto.
 
[INSERT PLAN AS IN EFFECT ON OCTOBER 3, 2004 HERE.]
[A copy of The Dow Chemical Company Executives Supplemental Retirement Plan in effect on October 3, 2004 is contained in Exhibit 10(a) to The Dow Chemical Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and is incorporated herein by this reference.]
 
 
 
21
 

 
 
 
 
The purpose of The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan ("Plan") is to aid The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiaries in retaining and attracting executive employees by providing them with tax deferred savings opportunities.  The Plan provides a select group of management and highly compensated employees, within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301 (a)3 and 401 (a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) and therefore exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA, of The Dow Chemical Company with the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of specified portions of compensation, and to have these deferred amounts treated as if invested in specified Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.  The Plan shall be effective for deferral elections made hereunder on or after Ja nuary 1, 2001.  The benefits provided under the Plan shall be provided in consideration for services to be performed after the effective date of the Plan, but prior to the executive's retirement.  Any references to "plan document" with respect to this Plan is a reference to the document herein.
Effective December 15, 1994, The Dow Chemical Company originally adopted The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan.  Minor amendments were made to the Plan on December 11, 1997. On October 19, 2000 The Dow Chemical Company amended and restated the Plan, to be effective as of January 1, 2001, to read as set forth in this Plan document.  Minor amendments to the restated Plan were made on December 11, 2000, September 10, 2001, October 4, 2001, September 9, 2002, December 2, 2002, February 3, 2003, April 7, 2003, July 7, 2003, August 4, 2003 and December 10, 2003.  The Dow Chemical Company again restated the Plan on August 6, 2004, effective as of January 1, 2001, in order to clarify certain provisions of the Plan.  Minor ame ndments to the restated Plan were made on October 7, 2004. Effective September 1, 2006 and January 1, 2007, The Dow Chemical Company amended the Plan to change the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.  On January 1, 2010, minor amendments to the Plan were made via a Plan restatement due to change in the third party administrator of the plan to change the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks, to clarify the valuation date used for the calculation of installment payments, and to eliminate the small balance distribution.  On January 4, 2010, deferrals allocated to "The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund" were converted to the "Dow Stock Fund".   On January 27, 2010, the plan was amended via restatement to allow Participants with deferrals that occurred prior to January 1, 2001 to reallocate such deferrals to any of the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.  On April 14, 2010, the Plan was amended and restated to make certain changes to the administrative provisions of the Plan.
 
 
For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
 
"Administrator" means the U.S. Pension Plan Leader, his delegee, and such other person, group of persons or entity which may be designated by The Dow Chemical Company in accordance with Section 3.02.  For purposes of Sections 3.01, 3.03 and 3.04, the Administrator shall also include the Appeals Administrator and the Initial Claims Reviewer (if the Initial Claims Reviewer is not the U.S. Pension Plan Leader).
 
 
"Appeals Administrator" means the Global Director of Benefits or his delegee and such other person, group of persons or entity which may be designated by the Dow Chemical Company in accordance with Section 3.02.
 
 
22
 
 
 
"Base Salary" means the annual base rate of pay from the Company at which a Participant is employed (excluding Performance Awards, commissions, relocation expenses, and other non-regular forms of compensation) before deductions under (A) deferrals pursuant to Section 4.02 and (B) contributions made on his or her behalf to any qualified plan maintained by any Company or to any cafeteria plan under section 125 of The Internal Revenue Code maintained by any Company.
 
 
"Base Salary Deferral" means the amount of a Participant's Base Salary which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis from his Base Salary and credited to his or her Deferral Account pursuant to Section 4.02.
 
 
"Beneficiary" means the person, persons or entity designated by the Participant to receive any benefits payable under the Plan pursuant to Article VIII.
 
 
"Board" means the board of directors of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
For purposes of this Plan, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon: (i) the dissolution or liquidation of The Dow Chemical Company; (ii) a reorganization, merger or consolidation of The Dow Chemical Company with one or more corporations as a result of which The DowChemical Company is not a surviving corporation; (iii) approval by the stockholders of The Dow Chemical Company of any sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one or series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of The Dow Chemical Company; (iv) approval by the stockholders of The Dow Chemical Company of any merger or consolidation of The Dow Chemical Company in which the holders of the voting stock of The Dow Chemical Company immediately before the merger or consolida tion will not own fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding voting shares of the continuing or surviving corporation immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (v) a change of fifty-one percent (51%) (rounded to the next whole person) in the membership of the Board of Directors of The Dow Chemical Company within a twenty-four (24) month period, unless the election or nomination for election by stockholders of each new director within such period was approved by the vote of eighty-five percent (85%) (rounded to the next whole person) of the directors still in office who were in office at the beginning of the twenty-four month period.
 
 
 
"Common Stock" means the common stock of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
"Company" means The Dow Chemical Company, its successors, any subsidiary or affiliated organizations authorized by the Board or the Administrator to participate in the Plan and any organization into which or with which The Dow Chemical Company may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred.
 
 
"Deferral Account" means the notional account established for record keeping purposes for each Participant pursuant to Article VI.
 
 
"Deferral Period" is defined in Section 4.02.
 
 
23
 
 
 
"Deferred Amount" is defined in Section 4.02.
 
 
"Disabled" or "Disability" means eligibility for disability benefits under the terms of the Long-Term Disability Plan maintained by The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
"Eligible Compensation" means any Base Salary, Performance Awards or Other Bonuses and any other monies deemed to be eligible compensation by The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
"Eligible Employee" means a key employee of any Company who:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
 
"Fair Market Value" of a share of Common Stock means the closing price of The Dow Chemical Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the most recent day on which the Common Stock wasso traded that precedes the date the Fair Market Value is to be determined. The definition of Fair Market Value in this Section shall be exclusively used to determine the values of a Participant's interest in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund (defined in Section 6.02(b)) for all relevant purposes under the Plan.
 
 
 
"Form of Payment" means payment in one lump sum or in substantially equal monthly, quarterly or annual installments not to exceed 15 years.
 
 
"Hardship Withdrawal" means the early payment of all or part of the balance in a Deferral Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency.
 
 
"Hypothetical Investment Benchmark" shall mean the phantom investment benchmarks which are used to measure the return credited to a Participant's Deferral Account.
 
 
24
 
 
 
"Initial Claims Reviewer" means the person, group of persons or entity responsible for deciding benefit claims under the Plan, as described in DOL Reg. s. 2560.503-1(e) (, first level claims for benefits).  The Initial Claims Reviewer is the U.S. Pension Plan Leader or such other person, group of persons or entity who may be designated by the Dow Chemical Company in accordance with Section 3.02.
i.e.
 
 
"Matching Contribution" means the amount of annual matching contribution that each Company will make to the Plan.
 
 
"Other Bonus" means the amount awarded to a Participant for a Plan Year under any other incentive plan maintained by any Company that has been established and authorized as eligible for deferral.
 
 
"Other Deferral" means the amount of a Participant's Other Bonus which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis credited to his or her account pursuant to Section 4.02.
 
 
"Participant" means any individual who is eligible and makes an election to participate in this Plan by filing a Participation Agreement as provided in Article IV.
 
 
"Participation Agreement" means an agreement filed by a Participant in accordance with Article IV.
 
 
"Performance Awards" means the amount paid in cash to the Participant by any Company in the form of annual incentive bonuses for a Plan Year.
 
 
"Performance Deferral" means the amount of a Participant's Performance Award which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis from his or her Performance Award and credited to his or her account pursuant to Section 4.02.
 
 
"Phantom Share Units" means units of deemed investment in shares of The Dow Chemical Company Common Stock so determined under Section 6.02(b).
 
 
"Plan" means The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan (Pre 2005) as set forth herein, together with any and all amendments and supplements hereto.
 
 
"Plan Year" means a twelve-month period beginning January 1 and ending the following December 31.
 
 
25
 
 
 
"Retirement" means normal or early retirement of a Participant from the Companies after attaining age 65 or age 50 with at least ten years of service under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan or any other defined benefit pension plan maintained by a Company under which a Participant is eligible to receive a benefit.
 
 
"Savings Plan" means The Dow Chemical Company Employees' Savings Plan as it currently exists and as it may subsequently be amended.
 
 
"Section 16 Participant" means an officer or director of The Dow Chemical Company required to report transactions in The Dow Chemical Company securities to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
"Termination of Employment" means the cessation of a Participant's services as an employee of the Companies, whether voluntary or involuntary, for any reason other than Retirement, Disability or Death.
 
 
"Unforeseeable Emergency" means severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant as determined by the Administrator.
 
 
"Valuation Date" means the last day of each calendar month or such other date as the Administrator in its sole discretion may determine.   Effective January 1, 2010, "Valuation Date" means the 4 day of the month or the prior business day of each calendar month or such other date as the Administrator in its sole discretion may determine.
th
 
 
"VPHR" means the Vice President of Human Resources.
 
A pronoun or adjective in the masculine gender includes the feminine gender, and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.  The title of an officer or employee when used in the plan document shall mean the respective officer or employee of The Dow Chemical Company, except where otherwise indicated. The title for a person or entity who is assigned responsibilities under the Plan shall mean any successor title to such position as such title may be changed from time to time.
 
 
 
The Administrator shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan and shall see that the Plan is carried out in accordance with its terms.
 
Except as provided in Section 3.02, the responsibility and authority of the Administrator shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following duties and powers:
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company may designate one or more persons or entities to serve as an Administrator of the Plan, in addition to or in lieu of the Administrator named in the plan document, through an action of the Board or through a written designation signed by the VPHR, the Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, the Global Director of Benefits, each acting individually, or such other person as the Board shall designate.  Any such designation of additional Administrators shall set forth in general or specific terms such person's or entity's responsibilities and authority.
 
In addition, each Administrator may designate other persons to carry out its responsibilities under the Plan in a writing that sets forth the responsibilities assigned to the delegee and, if applicable, the period for which such delegation shall be in effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company agrees to indemnify and to defend to the fullest extent permitted by law any employee or former employee of the Company or entity within the Companys controlled group (a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of section 414(b) or section 414(c) of the Code)who is serving or has served as an Administrator or who is acting or has acted on behalf of an Administrator against all liabilities, damages, costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees and amounts paid in settlement of any claims approved by the Company) occasioned by any act or omission to act in connection with the Plan, if such act or omission is in good faith.  This limitations period replaces and supersedes any limitation period ending at a later time that might otherwise be deemed applicable under state or federal law in the absence of this Section 3.04.
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
If a Participant or Beneficiary ("claimant") makes a written request alleging a right to receive payments under this Plan or alleging a right to receive an adjustment in benefits being paid under this Plan, such actions shall be treated as a claim for benefits.  Benefits under this Plan shall be payable only if the Initial Claims Reviewer or the Appeals Administrator, as the case may be, determines, in its sole discretion, that a claimant is entitled to them.
 
 
A claim for benefits under the Plan (including a claim that the claimant is eligible to participate in the Plan) may not be filed in any court:
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
 
This limitations period replaces and supersedes any limitation period ending at a later time that might otherwise be deemed applicable under state or federal law in the absence of this Section 3.06.
 
 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, any putative class action lawsuit relating to the Plan shall be filed in the jurisdiction in which the Plan is principally administered or the jurisdiction in which the largest number of putative class members resides.  If any such putative class action is filed in a different jurisdiction, or if any non-class action filed in a different jurisdiction is subsequently amended or altered to include class action allegations, then the Plan, all parties to such action that are related to the Plan (such as the Administrator) and all alleged Participants and Beneficiaries shall take all necessary steps to have the action removed to, transferred to or re-filed in a jurisdiction described in the first sentence of this Section 3.07.  This forum selection provision is waived if no party invokes it within 120 days of the filing of a putative class action or the assertion of class action allegations.  This provision does not relieve any putative class member from any obligation existing under the Plan or by law to exhaust administrative remedies before initiating litigation.
 
 
 
PARTICIPATION
 
 
Participation in the Plan shall be limited to Eligible Employees who elect to participate in this Plan by filing a Participation Agreement with the Administrator.  A Participation Agreement must be filed on or prior to the November 30 immediately preceding the Plan Year for which it is effective.  The Administrator shall have the discretion to establish special deadlines regarding the filing of Participation Agreements for Participants.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Retirement Board, in its sole discretion, may permit a newly eligible Participant to submit a Participation Agreement within 30 days of that employee becoming eligible, and deferrals shall commence as soon as practical thereafter.  An individual shall not be eligible to elect to participate in this Plan unless the individual is a Participant for the Plan Year for which the election is made.  In the event a Participant transfers to a subsidiary of any Company and such subsidiary does not participate in the Plan, the Participant's Deferred Amount shall cease, and the Participant's Deferral Account shall remain in effect until such time as the benefits are distributed as originally elected by the Participant in the Participation Agreement.
 
 
Subject to Article VII, each Participation Agreement shall set forth: (i) the amount of Eligible Compensation for the Plan Year or performance period to which the Participation Agreement relates that is to be deferred under the Plan (the 'Deferred Amount"), expressed as either a dollar amount or a percentage of the Base Salary and Performance Awards for such Plan Year or performance period; , that the minimum Deferred Amount for any Plan Year or performance period shall not be less than 5% (in 5% increments) of Base Salary and/or 5% (in 5% increments) of Performance Award/Other Bonus; (ii) the maximum Deferred Amount for any Plan Year or performance period shall not exceed 50% of Base Salary and 85% of Performance Award/Other Bonus; (iii) the period after which p ayment of the Deferred Amount is to be made or begin to be made (the 'Deferral Period"), which shall be (A) a specific future year, not greater than the year the Participant reaches age 70 34 or (B) the period ending upon the
provided
 
 
29
 
Retirement or prior termination of employment of the Participant; and (iv) the form in which payments are to be made, which may be a lump sum or in substantially equal monthly, quarterly or annual installments not to exceed 15 years. Participation Agreements are to be completed in a format specified by the Administrator.
 
 
A Participant may not change the amount of his or her Deferred Amount during a Plan Year. A Participant's Participation Agreement may not be made, modified or revoked retroactively, nor may a deferral period be shortened or reduced except as expressly provided in this Plan. For deferrals to occur from Performance Awards, the Participant must be actively employed, an eligible retiree or a member of an entire class of employees identified by the Administrator as eligible under Section 7.10.
 
 
 
 
 
Except for Section 16 Participants, the Deferred Amount of a Participant with respect to each Plan Year of participation in the Plan shall be credited to the Participant's Deferral Account as and when such Deferred Amount would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. For Section 16 Participants who elect to direct their Deferred Amount to the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund only, the Deferred Amount of that Participant with respect to each Plan Year of participation shall be credited to the Participant's Deferral Account in the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of 125% of Ten Year Treasury Notes as and when such Deferred Amount would otherwise have been paid to the Participant; on a quarterly basis (on the last business day of the months of March, June, September and December), such Deferred Amount shall be reallocated to the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund.  If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer the Deferred Amounts for all such Company's Participants to The Dow Chemical Company as and when the Deferred Amounts are withheld from a Participant's Base Salary, Performance Award or Other Bonus.  Such forwarded Deferred Amounts will be held as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.  The earnings based on a Participant's investment selection among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks specified in Appendix A hereto, as amended by the VPHR, Chief Financial Officer or their delegees from time to time, shall be borne by The Dow Chemical Company.  To the extent that any Company is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts from the Deferred Amount pursuant to any state, Federal or local law, such amounts shall be taken out of other compensation eligible to be paid to the Participant that is not deferred under this Plan.
 
 
Except as provided in Sections 7.03 and 7.15, a Participant shall be 100% vested in his or her Deferral Account as of each Valuation Date.
 
 
 
 
 
Separate Deferral Accounts shall be maintained for each Participant.  More than one Deferral Account may be maintained for a Participant as necessary to reflect (a) various Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks and/or (b) separate Participation Agreements specifying different Deferral Periods and/or forms of payment.  A Participant's Deferral Account(s) shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to the Participant pursuant to this Plan, and shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind.  The Administrator shall determine the balance of each Deferral Account, as of each Valuation Date, by adjusting the
 
 
30
 
balance of such Deferral Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date to reflect changes in the value of the deemed investments thereof, credits and debits pursuant to Section 6.02 and Section 7.03 and distributions pursuant to Article VII with respect to such Deferral Account since the preceding Valuation Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31
 
 
 
Each Participant shall be issued quarterly statements of his or her Deferral Account(s) in such form as the Administrator deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in his or her Deferral Account(s) as of the end of the most recently completed quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
At the end of the Deferral Period for each Deferral Account, The Dow Chemical Company shall pay to the Participant the balance of such Deferral Account at the time or times elected by the Participant in the applicable Participation Agreement.  If the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the balance of such Participant's Deferral Account, pursuant to the terms of the Plan, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse such Company for any such payments.  If the Participant has elected to receive payments from a Deferral Account in a lump sum, The Dow Chemical Company (or any other Company as described above) shall pay the balance in such Deferral Account (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the end of the Deferral Period) in a lump sum in cash on the January 31 after the end of the Deferral Period, and/or as soon as administratively feasible in the year of the payment of the Performance Award for the Performance Award deferral.  If a Participant has elected in a Participation Agreement to have a Deferral Account be distributed in installment payments, each installment payment shall equal the balance of such Deferral Account as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the payment date, times a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of remaining installment payments. The first such installment shall be paid on the January 31 after the end of the Deferral Period.  Each subsequent installment shall be paid on or about the succeeding anniversary of such first payment or in monthly or quarterly intervals, if selected. 60; Each such installment shall be deemed to be made on a pro rata basis from each of the different deemed investments of the Deferral Account (if there is more than one such deemed investment).
st
st
 
For Participants who elect to commence distribution of benefits upon Retirement, the lump sum cash payment or the first installment shall be paid on the January 31 after Retirement, and/or as soon as administratively feasible in the year of the payment of the Performance Award for the Performance Award deferral.
st
 
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Deferred Account distributions must begin no later than the April 1 after the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age 70 .
st
 
 
Participants may elect an alternative form of payout as available under Section 7.01 by written election filed with the Administrator; provided, however, that the Participant files the election in the prior tax year and at least six (6) months prior to the first day of the month in which payments are to commence.  Distribution change elections for payments commencing in January must be made no later than June 30 of the prior calendar year.
 
Effective January 1, 2010, Participants may no longer elect to change their benefits to quarterly installments.
 
If the Participant files the election in the year that the benefit payments are to commence or in the prior year but less than six (6) months prior to the date of benefit commencement, the Participant will have his or her Deferral Account reduced by ten percent (10%) at the Valuation Date immediately prior to commencement of payments, and, for future deferrals only, all Participation Agreements previously filed by such Participant shall be null and void after such election is filed (including without limitation Participation Agreements with respect to Plan Years or performance periods that have not yet been complete, and such a Participant shall not thereafter be entitled to file any Participation Agreements under the Plan with respect to the first Plan Year that begins after such election is made.
 
 
32
 
 
 
Each Participant who elects to make deferrals of Eligible Compensation to the Plan will be credited with a Matching Contribution utilizing the same formula authorized under the Savings Plan for employer matching contributions.  For purposes of calculating the match under this Plan, The Dow Chemical Company will assume each Participant is contributing the maximum allowable amount to the Savings Plan and receiving a match thereon.  This assumed match from the Savings Plan will be offset from the Matching Contribution calculated under provisions of the Elective Deferral Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the sum of the Matching Contribution under the Plan plus the assumed employer matching contributions under the Savings Plan may not exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) in each Plan Year.   The amount of the Matching Contribution may be based on a formula that takes into account a Participant's overall compensation and may be subject to maximum or minimum limitations.  The Matching Contribution shall be credited to the Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible within the first 60 days of the following Plan Year.  The Matching Contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the Base Salary deferrals of the Participant.  The Matching Contribution shall be distributed to the Participant according to the election made by the Participant governing his or her Base Salary deferrals and will vest one hundred percent (100%) on the date credited to the Participant's account.
 
If a Participant is employed by a Company, other than The Dow Chemical Company, an amount equal to all Matching Contributions credited to Participants of such Company shall be paid or transferred in full by such Company to The Dow Chemical Company as of the date such Matching Contribution is credited to a Participant's Deferred Account The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
Subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.11 hereof, if a Participant has elected to have the balance of his or her Deferral Account distributed upon Retirement or after a Specific Future Year, the account balance of the Participant (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the end of the Deferral Period) shall be distributed in installments or a lump sum in accordance with the Plan and as elected in the Participation Agreement. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Deferred Account distributions must begin no later than the April 1 after the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age 70 .
st
 
 
Subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.11 hereof, if a Participant has elected to defer Eligible Compensation under the Plan until a stated future year, the account balance of the Participant (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding such Deferral Period) shall be distributed in installments or a lump sum in accordance with the Plan and as elected in the Participation Agreement.  Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Deferred Account distributions must begin no later than the April 1 after the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age 70 .
st
 
 
If a Participant dies prior to Retirement and prior to receiving full payment of his or her Deferral Account(s), The Dow Chemical Company shall pay the remaining balance (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding such event) to the Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (as the case may be) according to the form elected by the Participant as a part of the Participation Agreement. If a Participant was employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the remaining balance of such deceased Participant's Deferral Account in accordance with the preceding sentence and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse the Company for such payment.  In the event that installment payments are elected, The Dow Chemical Company shall continue to credit interest on the unpaid balance of the De ferral Account subject to Section 6.02(a) hereof, based on the Participant's investment elections. A Participant's Beneficiary may request acceleration of timing and form of payment by filing a written designation with the Administrator within 60 days of the death of the Participant, provided that such change shall not be effective until the January 31 after the calendar year of the Participant's death.
st
 
 
33
 
 
 
If a Participant dies after Retirement and prior to receiving full payment of his or her Deferral Account(s), The Dow Chemical Company shall pay the remaining balance (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding such event) to the Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (as the case may be) according to the form elected by the Participant as a part of The Participation Agreement. If a Participant was employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the remaining balance of such deceased Participant's Deferral Account in accordance with the preceding sentence, and The DowChemical Company shall reimburse such Company for such payments.  In the event that installment payments are elected, The Dow Chemical Company sha ll continue to credit interest on the unpaid balance of the Deferral Account subject to Section 6.02(a) hereof, based on the Participant's investment elections.  A Participant's Beneficiary mayrequest acceleration of timing and form of payment by filing a written designation with the Administrator within 60 days of the death of the Participant, provided that such change shall not be effective until the January 31 after the calendar year of the Participant's death.
 
 
st
 
 
If a Participant suffers a Disability, the Participant's Deferred Amount shall cease, and The Dow Chemical Company (or, a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, subject to reimbursement by The Dow Chemical Company) shall pay the benefit described in Section 7.01. A Participant may request acceleration of timing and form of payment by filing a written designation with the Administrator within 60 days of the determination of Disability of the Participant, provided that such change shall not be effective until the January 31 after the calendar year of the Participant's Disability.
st
 
 
In the event of Termination of Employment which takes place prior to eligibility for Retirement, The Dow Chemical Company (or, a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, subject to reimbursement by The Dow Chemical Company) shall pay the benefits described in Section 7.01 in a single lump sum payment as soon as practicable after the Termination of Employment.
 
 
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, if the Termination of Employment occurs as a direct result of a merger, joint venture or sale of a subsidiary, division, business or other unit of any Company, or as a result of transfer of the Participant to a non-participating subsidiary or joint venture, as determined by the Administrator, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion,
 
 
34
 
 
Participants who retire or terminate after merger, joint venture or sale of a subsidiary, division, business or other unit of any Company, or as a result of transfer of the Participant to a non-participating subsidiary or joint venture assume the personal responsibility to notify The Dow Chemical Company of their status change. Failure to promptly notify The Dow Chemical Company may result in the loss of earnings beyond the status change date.
 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7.01 and any Participation Agreement, a Participants on-going Deferred Amount shall cease and a Participant shall be entitled to early payment of all or part of the balance in his or her Deferral Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency, in accordance with this Section 7.11.  A distribution pursuant to this Section 7.11 may only be made to the extent reasonably needed to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency need, and may not be made if such need is or may be relieved (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) by liquidation of the Participant's assets to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) by cessation of participation in the Plan.  An application for an early payment under this Se ction 7.11 shall be made to the Administrator in such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall determine from time to time.  The determination of whether and in what amount and form a distribution will be permitted pursuant to this Section 7.11 shall be made by the Administrator.
 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7.01 and any Participation Agreement, a Participant shall be entitled to elect to withdraw all or a portion of the balance in his or her Deferral Account(s) in accordance with this Section 7.12 by filing with the Administrator such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall determine from time to time.  The amount of this withdrawal must be at least twenty five percent (25%) of the balance of the Deferral Account, or $10,000.00, whichever is less.  As soon as practicable after receipt of such form by the Administrator, The Dow Chemical Company (or, a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, subject to reimbursement by The Dow Chemical Company) shall pay an amount equal to ninety (90) percent of the amount elected for withdrawal (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the date such election is filed) to the electing Participant in a lump sum in cash, and the Participant shall forfeit the remaining ten percent (10%) of the amount elected for withdrawal.  For future deferrals only, all Participation Agreements previously filed by a Participant who elects to make a withdrawal under this Section 7.12 shall be null and void after such election is filed (including without limitation Participation Agreements with respect to Plan Years or performance periods that have not yet been completed), and such a Participant shall not thereafter be entitled to file any Participation Agreements under the Plan with respect to the first Plan Year that begins after such election is made.
 
 
35
 
 
 
An Eligible Employee may, when completing a Participation Agreement during the enrollment period, elect that, if a Change of Control occurs, the Participant (or after the Participants death the Participant's Beneficiary) shall receive a lump sum payment of the balance of the Deferral Account within thirty (30) days after the Change of Control.  This election may be changed only during a 30-day period ending on November 30 of each calendar year and shall apply to the entire Deferral Account both before and after Retirement.  The Deferral Account balance shall be determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the month in which Change of Control occurs.  All Participation Agreements previously filed by a Participant who, receives a distribution under this Section 7.13 shall be null and void (incl uding without limitation Participation Agreements with respect to Plan Years or performance periods that have not yet been completed), and such a Participant shall not thereafter be entitled to tile any Participation Agreements under the Plan with respect to the first Plan Year that begins after such distribution is made.
 
 
Any Company may at any time contribute a discretionary Company contribution.  The amount of the discretionary contribution may vary from payroll period to payroll period throughout the Plan Year, may be based on a formula which takes into account a Participant's overall compensation, and otherwise may be subject to maximum or minimum limitations.  The Discretionary Contribution shall be credited to the Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible following the end of the payroll period.  The discretionary contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in Section 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the deferrals of the Participant. The discretionary contribution shall be distributed to the Participant according to the election made by the Participant governing his or her deferrals. The vesting schedule shall be at the sole discretion of the Administrator.  If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer to The Dow Chemical Company any amounts designated as discretionary Company contributions for all such Participants as of the date such discretionary Company contributions are credited to a Participant's Deferral Account.  The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, any Company shall withhold from payments made hereunder any amounts required to be so withheld by any applicable law or regulation.
 
 
 
 
Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person, persons or entity as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries.  A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended, by the Participant by filing a written designation with the Administrator, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall establish from time to time.
 
 
If a Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, then the Participant's Beneficiary shall be deemed to be, in the following order:
 
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board or its delegee may amend or modify the Plan at any time, and the President, Chief Financial Officer and VPHR, each acting individually, may amend or modify the Plan at any time, provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance in any Deferral Account as accrued at the time of such amendment, nor shall any amendment otherwise have a retroactive effect.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an amendment that affects only Section 16(b) Participants shall not be valid unless it is adopted or approved by the Board.
 
The authority of the President, Chief Financial Officer and VPHR, to amend or modify the Plan under this Section 9.01 may not be delegated.
 
 
The Board may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to future Participation Agreements.  The Board may also terminate the Plan in its entirety at any time for any reason, including without limitation if, in its judgment, the continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of The Dow Chemical Company, and upon any such termination, The Dow Chemical Company shall pay to each Participant (or shall transfer to a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company for payment if the Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company) the benefits such Participant is entitled to receive under the Plan as monthly installments over a three (3) year period commencing within ninety (90) days (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the termination date).  Any Company may cease participation in the Plan for any reason by notifying The Dow Chemical Company in writing at least 30 days prior to such Company's cessation of participation. Payments to Participants by any such Company will commence in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
 
ARTICLE X
 
 
 
This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore meant to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA.  All payments pursuant to the Plan shall first be made from the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company, as the entity primarily liable for such payments, and no special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure payment.  As described above, if a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay such Participant's Deferral Account balance to such Participant according to the terms of the Plan, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse such Company for the amount of the payment.  In the event The Dow Chemical Company is insolvent or is otherwise unable to make any required payment or reimbursement to a Participant or a Company, the Company (other than The Dow Chemical Company) that employed such Participant shall be secondarily liable for such payments from the general assets of such
37
 
Company.  No Participant or other person shall have under any circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of The Dow Chemical Company or any other Company as a result of participating in the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, The Dow Chemical Company may (but shall not be obligated to) create one or more grantor trusts, the assets of which are subject to the claims of The Dow Chemical Company's creditors, to assist it in accumulating funds to pay its obligations.
 
 
Except as specifically set forth in the Plan with respect to the designation of Beneficiaries, neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency.
 
 
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
 
 
The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of law, except to the extent preempted by federal law.
 
 
This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Participant or any Company any obligation for the Participant to remain an employee of such Company or change the status of the Participant's employment or the policies of such Company and its affiliates regarding termination of employment.
 
 
Nothing in this Plan shall prevent any Company from modifying, amending or terminating the compensation or the incentive plans and programs pursuant to which Performance Awards are earned and which are deferred under this Plan.
 
 
Payments from the Executive Severance Supplement equal to six months' Base Salary will be credited to the Participant's Deferral Account subject to the same earnings methods and distribution elections most recently elected by the Participant governing his or her Base Salary deferrals.  The Executive Severance Supplement for individuals who do not have an established Deferral Account will be deemed to be invested using the U.S. Treasury Note Hypothetical Investment Benchmark and a ten year payout distribution election.
 
 
The rights and obligations of The Dow Chemical Company shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
The waiver by The Dow Chemical Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by the Participant shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Participant.
38
 
 
Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to The Dow Chemical Company under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of The Dow Chemical Company, directed to the attention of the Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark.
 
 
The title of any person or entity who is assigned responsibilities under the Plan shall include any successor title to such position as such title may be changed from time to time.
 
 
, the Company has caused this amended and restated Plan document to be executed in its name and on its behalf by its officers duly authorized on this 14th day of April, 2010.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39
 
APPENDIX A: Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks
Hypothetical funds that align with the funds offered in the Savings Plan are also offered in this plan.
 
Ten Year U.S. Treasury Notes Plus Fund
 
The Angus Cash Fund is grandfathered to existing Participants.  No new contributions are allowed.
 
40
 

 
 
 
The purpose of The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan ("Plan") is to aid The Dow Chemical Company (the "Company") and its subsidiaries in retaining and attracting executive employees by providing them with tax deferred savings opportunities.  The Plan provides a select group of management and highly compensated employees of The Dow Chemical Company and certain subsidiaries with the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of specified portions of compensation, and to have these deferred amounts treated as if invested in specified Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.  The benefits provided under the Plan shall be provided in consideration for services to be performed after the effective date of the Plan, but prior to the executive's Separation from Service.  Any references to "plan document" with respe ct to this Plan is a reference to the document herein.
The Plan is intended to (1) constitute an unfunded program maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated Employees consistent with the requirements of sections 201(2), 301 (a)(3) and 401 (a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), and (2) comply with section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ("Code") and official guidance issued thereunder.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with these intentions.
The Plan shall be effective for deferrals made hereunder on or after January 1, 2005.  Amendments were made to the Plan on January 10, 2005 and March 11, 2005 to comply with the provisions of Code section 409A, and a minor amendment was made to the Plan on January 23, 2006. On September 1, 2006, the Plan was amended to further comply with the provisions of Code section 409A and, effective September 1, 2006 and January 1, 2007, to change the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks.  On November 1, 2006, the Plan was amended for Change of Control language.  On December 31, 2008, the Plan was amended and restated to comply with the requirements of Code section 409A and the final regulations thereunder, effective January 1, 2009.  On January 1, 2010, minor amendments to the Plan were made via a Plan resta tement to change the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks, to clarify the valuation date used for the calculation of installment payments, and to eliminate the small balance distribution.  On April 14, 2010, the Plan was amended and restated to make certain changes to the administrative provisions of the Plan.
For rules that apply to the distribution of amounts that were earned and vested prior to 2005 (and earnings thereon) and are exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A, refer to the plan document in effect on October 3, 2004. For rules that apply to the distribution of amounts that were earned and vested prior to January 1, 2010 (and earnings thereon) refer to the plan document in effect on January 1, 2009 unless such distributions have been further modified by a participant election per section 7.02 below.
 
 
 
 For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
 
"Administrator" means the U.S. Pension Plan Leader, his delegee, and such other person, group of persons or entity which may be designated by The Dow Chemical Company in accordance with Section 3.02.  For purposes of Sections 3.01, 3.03 and 3.04, the Administrator shall also include the Appeals Administrator and the Initial Claims Reviewer (if the Initial Claims Reviewer is not the U.S. Pension Plan Leader).
 
 
41
 
 
 
"Appeals Administrator" means the Global Director of Benefits or his delegee and such other person, group of persons or entity which may be designated by the Dow Chemical Company in accordance with Section 3.02.
 
 
"Base Salary" means the annual base rate of pay from the Company at which a Participant is employed (excluding Performance Awards, commissions, relocation expenses, and other non-regular forms of compensation) before deductions under (A) deferrals pursuant to Section 4.02 and (B) contributions made on his or her behalf to any qualified plan maintained by any Company or to any cafeteria plan under Code section 125 maintained by any Company. "Base Salary" for a Cadre Employee means the annual base rate of pay (excluding Performance Awards, commissions, relocation expenses, and other non-regular forms of compensation) before the deductions listed above payable to a Cadre Employee while the Cadre Employee is on U.S. assignment.
 
 
"Base Salary Deferral" means the amount of a Participant's Base Salary which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis from his or her Base Salary and credited to his or her Deferral Account pursuant to Section 4.02.
 
 
"Beneficiary" means the person, persons or entity designated by the Participant to receive any benefits payable under the Plan pursuant to Article VIII.
 
 
"Board" means the board of directors of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
"Cadre Employee" means an employee who has been authorized by Dow Europe GmbH to participate in the Cadre Pension Plan and who earns compensation while on assignment in the U.S.
 
 
For purposes of this Plan, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred on: (a) the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group acquires, ownership of stock of The Dow Chemical Company that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of The Dow Chemical Company, (b) the date that a majority of the members of the Board of The Dow Chemical Company is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the directors before the date of the appointment or election, (c) the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of The Dow Chemical Company possessing 30% or more of the total voting power of the stock of such corporation, (d) the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from The Dow Chemical Company that has a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of The Dow Chemical Company immediately before such acquisition or acquisitions, provided that the following asset transfers shall not result in a Change of Control: (i) a transfer of assets to a stockholder of The Dow Chemical Company in exchange for or with respect to its stock, (ii) a transfer to a corporation, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by The Dow Chemical Company, (iii) a transfer to a person, or more than one person acting as a grou p, that owns 50% or more of the stock of The Dow Chemical Company, or (iv) a transfer to an entity, at least 50% of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described in clause (iii). This definition of "Change of Control" is intended to conform to the definition of a "change in ownership or effective control of a corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation" as defined under Code section 409A and any subsequent authority
 
 
42
 
issued pursuant thereto, and no corporate event shall be considered a Change of Control unless it meets such requirements.
 
 
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
 
"Common Stock" means the common stock of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
"Company" means The Dow Chemical Company, its successors, any subsidiary or affiliated organizations authorized by the Board or the Administrator to participate in the Plan and any organization into which or with which The Dow Chemical Company may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred.
 
 
"Deferral Account" means the notional account established for record keeping purposes for each Participant pursuant to Article VI.
 
 
"Deferred Amount" means the amount deferred pursuant to Section 4.02.
 
 
"Disabled" or "Disability" means a Participant who, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, is receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under the Company's ERISA welfare plan that provides long-term disability payments.
 
 
"Discretionary Company Contribution" means an amount credited to a Participant's Deferral Account pursuant to Section 7.08.
 
 
"Domestic Partner" means a person who is a member of a Domestic Partnership.
 
 
"Domestic Partnership" means a partnership of two people that meets the definition of "Domestic Partnership" as defined in the Savings Plan.
 
 
"Eligible Compensation" means any Base Salary, Performance Awards and any other monies treated as eligible compensation by The Dow Chemical Company, payable to a Participant to the extent the Participant is on the U.S. payroll of the Company at the time the amount would have otherwise been paid to the Participant.  "Eligible Compensation" for a Cadre Employee means any Base Salary, Performance Awards and any other monies treated as eligible compensation by The Dow Chemical Company, payable to a Cadre Employee while the Cadre Employee is on U.S. assignment.
 
 
43
 
 
 
"Eligible Employee"' means an employee of any Company who:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of Section 7.08, Discretionary Company Contributions, only, "Eligible Employee" means an employee who:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
 
"Executive Life Insurance" means a life insurance policy under TDCC Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan, or the UCC Executive Life Insurance Plan.
 
 
"Fair Market Value" of a share of Common Stock means the closing price of The Dow Chemical Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the most recent day on which the Common Stock was so traded that precedes the date the Fair Market Value is to be determined.  The definition of Fair Market Value in this Section shall be exclusively used to determine the values of a Participant's interest in The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund (defined in Section 6.02(b)) for all relevant purposes under the Plan.
 
 
"Form of Payment" means payment in one lump sum or in substantially equal monthly, quarterly or annual installments not to exceed 15 years.
 
 
44
 
 
 
 
"Hardship Withdrawal" means the early payment of all or part of the balance in a Deferral Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency.
 
 
"Hypothetical Investment Benchmark" shall mean the phantom investment benchmarks which are used to measure the return credited to a Participant's Deferral Account.
 
 
"Initial Claims Reviewer" means the person, group of persons or entity responsible for deciding benefit claims under the Plan, as described in DOL Reg. s. 2560.503-1(e) (, first level claims for benefits).  The Initial Claims Reviewer is the U.S. Pension Plan Leader or such other person, group of persons or entity who may be designated by the Dow Chemical Company in accordance with Section 3.02.
i.e.
 
 
"Key Employee" means any Eligible Employee or Cadre Employee who has a job level of 820 points or higher as of his Separation from Service.
 
 
"Matching Contribution" means the amount of annual matching contribution that each Company will make to the Plan.
 
 
"Participant" means any individual who is eligible and makes an election to participate in this Plan by filing a Participation Agreement as provided in Article IV.
 
 
"Participation Agreement" means an agreement filed by a Participant in accordance with Article IV.
 
 
"Performance Awards" means the amount paid in cash to the Participant by any Company in the form of annual incentive bonuses for a Plan Year.  "Performance Awards" for a Cadre Employee means the annual incentive bonuses for a Plan Year payable to a Cadre Employee while the Cadre Employee is on U.S. assignment.
 
 
"Performance Deferral" means the amount of a Participant's Performance Award which the Participant elects to have withheld on a pre-tax basis from his or her Performance Award and credited to his or her account pursuant to Section 4.02.
 
 
"Phantom Share Units" means units of deemed investment in shares of The Dow Chemical Company Common Stock so determined under Section 6.02(b).
 
 
"Plan" means The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan (Post 2004) as set forth herein, together with any and all amendments and supplements hereto.
 
 
45
 
 
 
"Plan Year" means a twelve-month period beginning January 1 and ending the following December 31.
 
 
"Savings Plan" means The Dow Chemical Company Employees' Savings Plan as it currently exists and as it may subsequently be amended.
 
 
"Section 16 Participant" means an officer or director of The Dow Chemical Company required to report transactions in The Dow Chemical Company securities to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
"Separation from Service" or "Separates from Service" means a "separation from service" within the meaning of section 409A of the Code, except that in applying section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Code for purposes of determining a controlled group of corporations under section 414(b)and (c) of the Code, and in applying Treasury Regulation section 1.414(c)-2 for purposes of determining trades or businesses that are under common control under section 414(c) of the Code, the language "at least 45 percent" is used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place it appears.
 
 
 
"Unforeseeable Emergency' means severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Code section 152(a)) of the Participant loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant as determined by the Administrator.  The amount of the distribution may not exceed the amounts necessary to satisfy such emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the e xtent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship) or by cessation of the Participant's deferrals under the Plan.
 
 
"Valuation Date" means the 4 day or the prior business day of each calendar month or such other date as the Administrator in its sole discretion may determine.
th
 
 
"VPHR" means the Vice President of Human Resources.
 
A pronoun or adjective in the masculine gender includes the feminine gender, and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.  The title of an officer or employee when used in this Plan document shall mean the respective officer or employee of The Dow Chemical Company, except where otherwise indicated.  The title for a person or entity who is assigned responsibilities under the Plan shall mean any successor title to such position as such title may be changed from time to time.
 
 
46
 
ARTICLE III
 
 
 
 
The Administrator shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan and shall see that the Plan is carried out in accordance with its terms.
 
 
Except as provided in Section 3.02, the responsibility and authority of the Administrator shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following duties and powers:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company may designate one or more persons or entities to serve as an Administrator of the Plan, in addition to or in lieu of the Administrator named in the plan document, through an action of the Board or through a written designation signed by the VPHR, the Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, the Global Director of Benefits, each acting individually, or such other person as the Board shall designate.  Any such designation of additional Administrators shall set forth in general or specific terms such person's or entity's responsibilities and authority.
 
 
In addition, each Administrator may designate other persons to carry out its responsibilities under the Plan in a writing that sets forth the responsibilities assigned to the delegee and, if applicable, the period for which such delegation shall be in effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47
 
 
 
The Company agrees to indemnify and to defend to the fullest extent permitted by law any employee or former employee of the Company or entity within the Companys controlled group (a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of section 414(b) or section 414(c) of the Code)who is serving or has served as an Administrator or who is acting or has acted on behalf of an Administrator against all liabilities, damages, costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees and amounts paid in settlement of any claims approved by the Company) occasioned by any act or omission to act in connection with the Plan, if such act or omission is in good faith.  This limitations period replaces and supersedes any limitation period ending at a later time that might otherwise be deemed applicable under state or federal law in the absence of this Section 3.04.
 
 
 
If a Participant or Beneficiary ("claimant") makes a written request alleging a right to receive payments under this Plan or alleging a right to receive an adjustment in benefits being paid under this Plan, such actions shall be treated as a claim for benefits.  Benefits under this Plan shall be payable only if the Initial Claims Reviewer or the Appeals Administrator, as the case may be, determines, in its sole discretion, that a claimant is entitled to them.
 
48
 
 
A claim for benefits under the Plan (including a claim that the claimant is eligible to participate in the Plan) may not be filed in any court:
 
 
 
 
This limitations period replaces and supersedes any limitation period ending at a later time that might otherwise be deemed applicable under state or federal law in the absence of this Section 3.06.
 
 
 
 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, any putative class action lawsuit relating to the Plan shall be filed in the jurisdiction in which the Plan is principally administered or the jurisdiction in which the largest number of putative class members resides.  If any such putative class action is filed in a different jurisdiction, or if any non-class action filed in a different jurisdiction is subsequently amended or altered to include class action allegations, then the Plan, all parties to such action that are related to the Plan (such as the Administrator) and all alleged Participants and Beneficiaries shall take all necessary steps to have the action removed to, transferred to or re-filed in a jurisdiction described in the first sentence of this Section 3.07.  This forum selection provision is waived if no party invokes it within 120 days of the filing of a putative class action or the assertion of class action allegations.  This provision does not relieve any putative class member from any obligation existing under the Plan or by law to exhaust administrative remedies before initiating litigation.
 
ARTICLE IV
 
 
 
 
 
49
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant may not change the amount of his or her Deferred Amount during a Plan Year.  A Participants Participation Agreement may not be made, modified or revoked retroactively.
 
 
 
The Deferred Amount of a Participant with respect to each Plan Year of participation in the Plan shall be credited to the Participant's Deferral Account as and when such Deferred Amount would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer the Deferred Amounts for all such Company's Participants to The Dow Chemical Company as and
 
 
50
 
when the Deferred Amounts are withheld from a Participant's Base Salary or Performance Award.  Such forwarded Deferred Amounts will be held as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.  The earnings credit under Section 6.02 based on a Participant's investment selection among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks specified in Appendix A hereto, as amended by the VPHR, Chief Financial Officer or their delegees from time to time, shall be borne by The Dow Chemical Company.  To the extent that any Company is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts from the Deferred Amount pursuant to any state, Federal or local law, such amounts shall be taken out of other compensation eligible to be paid to the Participant that is not deferred under this Plan.
 
 
Except as provided in Sections 7.10 and 7.11, a Participant shall be 100% vested in his or her Deferral Account as of each Valuation Date.
 
 
 
 
 
Separate Deferral Accounts shall be maintained for each Participant.  More than one Deferral Account may be maintained for a Participant as necessary to reflect (a) various Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks and/or (b) separate Participation Agreements specifying different times and Forms of Payment.  A Participants Deferral Account(s) shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to the Participant pursuant to this Plan, and shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind.  The Administrator shall determine the balance of each Deferral Account, as of each Valuation Date, by adjusting the balance of such Deferral Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date to reflect changes in the value of the deemed investments thereof, cre dits and debits pursuant to Section 6.02 and Section 7.08 and distributions pursuant to Article VII with respect to such Deferral Account since the preceding Valuation Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51
 
 
 
 
 
Section 16 Participants may not elect to direct their Deferral Amount into the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund.
 
 
 
Each Participant shall be issued quarterly statements of his or her Deferral Account(s) in such form as the Administrator deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in his or her Deferral Account(s) as of the end of the most recently completed quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant may subsequently elect an alternative time or Form of Payment as available under Section 7.01 by written election filed with the Administrator; provided, however, that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any election by a Participant in a Participation Agreement or provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant dies prior to receiving full payment of his or her Deferral Account(s), The Dow Chemical Company shall pay the remaining balance (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding death) to the Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (as the case may be) in a lump sum in cash as soon as administratively practicable within 90 days after the Participant's death, provided that such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall not have the right to designate the taxable year of payment.  If a Participant was employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay the remaining balance of such deceased Participant's Deferral Account in accordance with the preceding sente nce, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse the Company for such payment.
 
 
Notwithstanding any election by a Participant in a Participation Agreement or provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant incurs a Disability prior to receiving full payment of his or her Deferral Account(s), The Dow Chemical Company shall pay the remaining balance (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding death) to the Participant in a lump sum in cash as soon as administratively practicable within 90 days after the Participant becomes Disabled, provided that the Participant shall not have the right to designate the taxable year of payment.  If a Participant was employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company
 
 
54
 
shall pay the remaining balance of such Participant's Deferral Account in accordance with the preceding sentence, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse the Company for such payment.
 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7.01 and any elections by a Participant in a Participation Agreement a Participant shall be entitled to early payment of all or part of the balance in his or her Deferral Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency, in accordance with this Section 7.05.  A distribution pursuant to this Section 7.05 may only be made to the extent reasonably needed to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency need, and may not be made if such need is or may be relieved (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) by liquidation of the Participant's assets to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) by cessation of participation in the Plan.  An application for an early payment under this Section 7.05 shall be made to the Administrator in such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall determine from time to time.  The determination of whether and in what amount a distribution will be permitted pursuant to this Section 7.05 shall be made by the Administrator.  Upon such an early payment under this Section 7.05 in a Plan Year, the Participant's deferral election pursuant to Section 4.02 shall be cancelled with respect to any Deferred Amounts that would otherwise be deferred for the remainder of such Plan Year.
 
 
In accordance with the Company's procedures and to the extent permitted by Code section 409A, a Participant may elect in a Participation Agreement that, if a Change of Control occurs, the Participant shall receive a lump sum payment of the balance of the Participant's applicable Deferral Account within thirty (30) days after the Change of Control.  Certain Participants were provided with transition elections during the Code section 409A transition period to have their 2005-2008 Deferral Accounts, if any, paid in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after a Change of Control.  In the event a Participant did not elect to have his 2005-2008 Deferral Accounts, if any, paid in a lump sum upon a Change of Control, such 2005-2008 Deferral Accounts, if any, will be distributed in accordance with the Participant's Distributio n elections in the relevant Participation Agreements.
 
 
Each Eligible Employee who elects to make deferrals of Eligible Compensation to the Plan will be credited with a Matching Contribution utilizing the same formula authorized under the Savings Plan for employer matching contributions.  For purposes of calculating the match under this Plan, The Dow Chemical Company will assume each Participant is contributing the maximum allowable amount to the Savings Plan and receiving a match thereon.  The Matching Contribution calculated under provisions of this Plan will be reduced by this assumed match from the Savings Plan.  The amount of the Matching Contribution may be based on a formula that takes into account a Participant's overall compensation and may be subject to maximum or minimum limitations.  The Matching Contribution shall be credited to the Defe rral Account as soon as administratively feasible within the first 60 days of the following Plan Year.  The Matching Contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in Section 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the Eligible Compensation deferrals of the Participant at such time.  The Matching Contribution for a Plan Year shall be distributed to the Participant at the same time and in the same Form of Payment as the Participant's Deferred Amount (and earnings thereon) for such Plan Year in accordance with this Article VII, and will vest one hundred percent (100%) on the date credited to the Participant's account. In the event a Participant has elected one time and Form of Payment with respect to his or her Base Salary Deferral for such Plan Year and another time and Form of Payment with respect to his or her Performance Deferral for such Plan Year, the Matching Contribution (and earnings thereon) for su ch Plan Year shall be distributed in accordance with the time and Form of Payment applicable to the Participant's Base Salary Deferral for such Plan Year.  A Cadre Employee is not eligible for a Matching Contribution.
 
If a Participant is employed by a Company, other than The Dow Chemical Company, an amount equal to all Matching Contributions credited to Participants of such Company shall be paid or transferred in full by such Company to The Dow Chemical Company as of the date such Matching Contribution is credited to a Participant's Deferral Account. The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
55
 
 
 
 
Any Company may at any time contribute a discretionary Company contribution. This discretionary Company contribution may be for payments including, but not limited to, signing or retention bonuses.  The amount of the discretionary Company contribution may vary from payroll period to payroll period throughout the Plan Year, may be based on a formula which takes into account a Participant's overall compensation, and otherwise may be subject to maximum or minimum limitations.  The discretionary Company contribution shall be credited to the Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible following the end of the payroll period.  The discretionary contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in Section 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the deferrals of the Participant at the time, or if none, BGI LifePath (according to age). Subject to the other provisions contained in this Article VII, if no distribution election is made, any vested discretionary contribution (and earnings thereon) shall be distributed to the Participant in cash in a lump sum within 60 days following the Participant's Separation from Service.  Any vesting schedule shall be determined by the Administrator at the time the discretionary Company contribution is made. A Cadre Employee is not eligible for a discretionary Company contribution.
 
If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer to The Dow Chemical Company any amounts designated as discretionary Company contributions for all such Participants as of the date such discretionary Company contributions are credited to a Participant's Deferral Account.  The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
Each Cadre Employee will be credited with a nondiscretionary Company contribution equal to (1) 4% of the Cadre Employee's monthly Base Salary for each month while he is an eligible to participate in the Plan, and (2) 12% of the Cadre Employee's Performance Awards received annually while he is eligible to participate in the Plan.  The Company contribution shall be credited to the Deferral Account as soon as administratively feasible following the end of the applicable period.  The Company contribution shall be invested among the same Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks as defined in Section 6.02 in the same proportion as the elections made by the Participant governing the deferrals of the Participant at the time, or if none, BGI LifePath (according to age).  Subject to the other provisions contained in this Article VII, the Company contribution shall be distributed to the Participant at the same time and in the same form as the Participants deferrals for the Plan Year in which the nondiscretionary Company contribution is made in accordance with this Article VII.  In the event a Participant has elected one time and Form of Payment with respect to his or her Base Salary Deferral for such year and another time and Form of Payment with respect to his or her Performance Deferral for such year, the Company contribution (and earnings thereon) for such year shall be distributed in accordance with the time and Form of Payment applicable to the Participant's Base Salary Deferral for such year. If no base salary deferral election is made by the Participant, the nondiscretionary Company contribution distribution will be made via lump sum at separation per Section 7.01. The nondiscretionary Company contributions will vest one hundred percent (100%) on the date the Participant is eligible to participate in the Pla n.
 
If a Participant is employed by a company other than The Dow Chemical Company, an amount equal to all nondiscretionary Company contributions credited to Participants of such company shall be paid or transferred in full by such company to The Dow Chemical Company as of the date such contribution is credited to a Participant's Deferral Account.  The Dow Chemical Company shall hold such amounts as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, any Company shall withhold from payments made hereunder any amounts required to be so withheld by any applicable law or regulation.  The Company may also accelerate and pay a portion of a Participant's benefits in a lump sum equal to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act ("FICA") tax imposed and the income tax withholding related to such FICA amounts.
 
56
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a portion of the Participant's Deferral Account balance is includible in income under Code section 409A, such portion shall be distributed immediately to the Participant.
 
 
 
 
Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person, persons or entity as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries.  A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended, by the Participant by filing a written designation with the Administrator, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall establish from time to time.
 
 
If a Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, then the Participant's Beneficiary shall be deemed to be, in the following order:
 
 
 
 
The Board or its delegee may amend or modify the Plan at any time, and the President, Chief Financial Officer and VPHR, each acting individually, may amend or modify the Plan at any time, provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance in any Deferral Account as accrued at the time of such amendment, nor shall any amendment otherwise have a retroactive effect.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing:  (i) an amendment that affects only Section 16(b) Participants shall not be valid unless it is adopted or approved by the Board; and (ii) no amendment of the Plan shall apply to amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts.  The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" to amounts that are "grandfathered" and exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A.
 
The authority of the President, Chief Financial Officer and VPHR, to amend or modify the Plan under this Section 9.01 may not be delegated.
 
 
The Board may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to future Participation Agreements.  The Board may also terminate the Plan in its entirety at any time for any reason, including without limitation if, in its judgment, the
 
 
57
 
 
 
continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of The Dow Chemical Company.  Any plan termination made pursuant to this Section 9.02 shall be performed in a manner consistent with the requirements of Code section 409A and any regulations or other applicable guidance issued thereunder.  In the event a Participant is employed by a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company at the time distributions are made as a result of the plan termination and such Company makes the required payments to the Participant, The Dow Chemical Company shall transfer to such Company an amount equal to the amount paid to the Participant on account of termination of the Plan.  Any Company may cease participation in the Plan for any reason by notifying The Dow Chemical Company in writing at least 30 days prior to such Company's cessation of participation. Payments to Participants by any such Company will commence in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the Company's cessation of participation will otherwise comply with Code section 409A.
 
 
Except as provided in the next sentence, no amendment or termination of the Plan shall adversely affect the rights of any Participant to amounts credited to his Deferral Accounts as of the effective date of such amendment or termination.  Upon termination of the Plan, distribution of balances in Deferral Accounts shall be made to Participants and beneficiaries in the manner and at the time described in Article VII, unless the Company determines in its sole discretion that all such amounts shall be distributed upon termination in accordance with the requirements under Code section 409A.  Upon termination of the Plan, no further deferrals of Eligible Compensation shall be permitted; however, earnings, gains and losses shall continue to be credited to Deferral Account balances in accordance with Article VI until the D eferral Account balances are fully distributed.
 
 
 
 
 
This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore meant to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA.  All payments pursuant to the Plan shall first be made from the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company, as the entity primarily liable for such payments, and no special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure payment.  As described above, if a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay such Participant's Deferral Account balance to such Participant according to the terms of the Plan, and The Dow Chemical Company shall reimburse such Company for the amount of the payment In the event The Dow Chemical Company is insolvent or is otherwise unable to make any required payment or reimbursement to a Participant or a Company, the Company (other than The Dow Chemical Company) that employed such Participant shall be secondarily liable for such payments from the general assets of such Company.  No Participant or other person shall have under any circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of The Dow Chemical Company or any other Company as a result of participating in the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, The Dow Chemical Company may (but shall not be obligated to) create one or more grantor trusts, the assets of which are subject to the claims of The Dow Chemical Company's creditors, to assist it in accumulating funds to pay its obligations.
 
 
Except as specifically set forth in the Plan with respect to the designation of Beneficiaries, neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency.
 
 
58
 
 
 
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
 
 
The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of law, except to the extent preempted by federal law.
 
 
This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Participant or any Company any obligation for the Participant to remain an employee of such Company or change the status of the Participant's employment or the policies of such Company and its affiliates regarding termination of employment.
 
 
Nothing in this Plan shall prevent any Company from modifying, amending or terminating the compensation or the incentive plans and programs pursuant to which Performance Awards are earned and which are deferred under this Plan.
 
 
The rights and obligations of The Dow Chemical Company shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
The waiver by The Dow Chemical Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by the Participant shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Participant.
 
 
Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to The Dow Chemical Company under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of The Dow Chemical Company, directed to the attention of the Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark.
 
 
The title of any person or entity who is assigned responsibilities under the Plan shall include any successor title to such position as such title may be changed from time to time.
 
 
 
59
 
, the Company has caused this amended and restated Plan document to be executed in its name and on its behalf by its officers duly authorized on this 14th day of April, 2010.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60
 
APPENDIX A: Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks
 
 
The funds offered in the Savings Plan are also offered in this plan.
 
Ten Year U.S. Treasury Notes Plus Fund
 
The Angus Cash Fund is grandfathered to existing participants.  No new contributions are allowed.
 
61
 

 
 
By authority of the resolution of the board of directors of The Dow Chemical Company adopted on April 14, 2010, and Article VI of The Dow Chemical Company Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan (Plan), as restated and effective April 14, 2010, Section 6.06 is amended and restated as follows:
 
 
The Board or its delegate may amend or modify the Plan at any time, and the President, Chief Financial Officer, VPHR, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, and Global Director of Benefits, each acting individually, may amend or modify the Plan at any time.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing:  (i) an amendment that affects only Section 16 Employees, as defined by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and determined by the Administrator, shall not be valid unless it is adopted or approved by the Board; (ii) any amendment shall have prospective application only and shall not reduce or impair a Participant's right to benefits accrued and vested under the Plan as of the date such amendment is made; and (iii) no amendment of the Plan shall apply to amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts.  The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" to am ounts that are "grandfathered" and exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A.
 
Each Participant shall receive written notice of the amendment or termination of the Plan describing the action taken in detail.
 
The authority of the President, Chief Financial Officer, VPHR, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, and Global Director of Benefits to amend or modify the Plan under this Section 6.06 may not be delegated.
 
, the Company has caused this amended and restated Plan document to be executed in its name on this 14th day of April, 2010.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62
 

 
 
By authority of the resolution of the board of directors of The Dow Chemical Company adopted on April 14, 2010, and Article IX of The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan (Pre 2005) as restated and effective April 14, 2010, Section 5.01, Section 6.02(a) and Section 9.01 are each amended and restated as follows:
 
 
Except for Section 16 Participants, the Deferred Amount of a Participant with respect to each Plan Year of participation in the Plan shall be credited to the Participant's Deferral Account as and when such Deferred Amount would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. For Section 16 Participants who elect to direct their Deferred Amount to the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund only, the Deferred Amount of that Participant with respect to each Plan Year of participation shall be credited to the Participant's Deferral Account in the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of 125% of Ten Year Treasury Notes as and when such Deferred Amount would otherwise have been paid to the Participant; on a quarterly basis (on the last business day of the months of March, June, September and December), such Deferred Amount shall be reallocated to the Hypothetical Investment Benchmark of The Dow Chemical Company Stock Index Fund.  If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer the Deferred Amounts for all such Company's Participants to The Dow Chemical Company as and when the Deferred Amounts are withheld from a Participant's Base Salary, Performance Award or Other Bonus.  Such forwarded Deferred Amounts will be held as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.  The earnings based on a Participant's investment selection among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks specified in Appendix A hereto, as amended by the VPHR, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, Global Director of Benefits, Chief Financial Officer, or Global Director of Portfolio Investments, each acting individually, or their delegates, from time to time, shall be borne by The Dow Chemical Company.  To the extent that any Co mpany is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts from the Deferred Amount pursuant to any state, Federal or local law, such amounts shall be taken out of other compensation eligible to be paid to the Participant that is not deferred under this Plan.
 
 
 
 
The Board or its delegate may amend or modify the Plan at any time, and the President, Chief Financial Officer, VPHR, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, and Global Director of Benefits, each acting individually, may amend or modify the Plan at any time, provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance in any Deferral Account as accrued at the time of such amendment, nor shall any amendment otherwise have a retroactive effect.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an amendment that affects only Section 16(b) Participants shall not be valid unless it is adopted or approved by the Board.
 
 
63
 
The authority of the President, Chief Financial Officer, VPHR, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, and Global Director of Benefits to amend or modify the Plan under this Section 9.01 may not be delegated.
 
, the Company has caused this amended and restated Plan document to be executed in its name on this 14th day of April, 2010.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64
 

 
 
By authority of the resolution of the board of directors of The Dow Chemical Company adopted on April 14, 2010, and Article IX of The Dow Chemical Company Elective Deferral Plan (Post 2004) as restated and effective April 14, 2010, Section 5.01, Section 6.02(a) and Section 9.01 are each amended and restated as follows:
 
 
The Deferred Amount of a Participant with respect to each Plan Year of participation in the Plan shall be credited to the Participant's Deferral Account as and when such Deferred Amount would otherwise have been paid to the Participant. If a Participant is employed at a Company other than The Dow Chemical Company, such Company shall pay or transfer the Deferred Amounts for all such Company's Participants to The Dow Chemical Company as and when the Deferred Amounts are withheld from a Participant's Base Salary or Performance Award.  Such forwarded Deferred Amounts will be held as part of the general assets of The Dow Chemical Company.  The earnings credit under Section 6.02 based on a Participant's investment selection among the Hypothetical Investment Benchmarks specified in Appendix A hereto, as amended by the VPH R, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, Global Director of Benefits, Chief Financial Officer, or Global Director of Portfolio Investments, each acting individually, or their respective delegates, from time to time, shall be borne by The Dow Chemical Company.  To the extent that any Company is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts from the Deferred Amount pursuant to any state, Federal or local law, such amounts shall be taken out of other compensation eligible to be paid to the Participant that is not deferred under this Plan.
 
 
 
 
The Board or its delegate may amend or modify the Plan at any time, and the President, Chief Financial Officer, VPHR, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, and Global Director of Benefits, each acting individually, may amend or modify the Plan at any time, provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance in any Deferral Account as accrued at the time of such amendment, nor shall any amendment otherwise have a retroactive effect.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing:  (i) an amendment that affects only Section 16(b) Participants shall not be valid unless it is adopted or approved by the Board; and (ii) no amendment of the Plan shall apply to amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Code section 409A and regulations thereunder) under the Plan prior to 2005, unless the amendment specifically provides that it applies to such amounts.  The purpose of this restriction is to prevent a Plan amendment from resulting in an inadvertent "material modification" to amounts that are "grandfathered" and exempt from the requirements of Code section 409A.
 
The authority of the President, Chief Financial Officer, VPHR, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, and Global Director of Benefits to amend or modify the Plan under this Section 9.01 may not be delegated.
 
 
65
 
, the Company has caused this amended and restated Plan document to be executed in its name on this 14th day of April, 2010.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
66
 


