FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20110121163416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Dow Chemical Company is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K to provide a Corporate Profile and selected segment information that reflect a change in the Companys reportable segments related to recent changes in the Companys organizational structure.
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1  Corporate Profile and selected segment information, adjusted to reflect a change in the Companys reportable segments related to a recent reorganization within The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  
January 21, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
Exhibit No.      Description
 
4
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, The Dow Chemical Company (Dow or the Company) is changing its reportable segments due to recent changes in the Companys organization. The following segment changes are being made:
The reporting changes are reflected in the following Corporate Profile and selected segment information for 2010 and 2009 by quarter, as if the change had taken place as of January 1, 2009. The segment information provided for the first quarter of 2009 has been provided on a pro forma basis, reflecting the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company.
Corporate Profile
Dow combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to passionately innovate what is essential to human progress. The Company connects chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help address many of the worlds most challenging problems such as the need for clean water, renewable energy generation and conservation, and increasing agricultural productivity. Dows diversified industry-leading portfolio of specialty chemical, advanced materials, agrosciences and plastics businesses deliver a broad range of technology-based products and solutions to customers in approximately 160 countries and in high growth sectors such as electronics, water, energy, coatings and agriculture. In 2009, Dow had annual sales of $44.9 billion and employed approximately 52,000 people worldwide. The Companys more than 5,000 products are manufactured at 214 sites in 37 countries across the globe. The following descriptions of the Companys eight operating segments include a representative listing of products for each business.
ELECTRONIC AND SPECIALTY MATERIALS
chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) pads and slurries  chemical processing aids and intermediates  electronic displays  food and pharmaceutical processing and ingredients  home and personal care ingredients  hygiene and infection control  photolithography materials  printed circuit board materials  process and materials preservation  semiconductor packaging, connectors and industrial finishing  water purification
Applications:
is a leading global supplier of materials for chemical mechanical planarization; materials used in the production of electronic displays, including brightness films, diffusers, metalorganic light emitting diode (LED) precursors and organic light emitting diode (OLED) materials; products and technologies that drive leading edge semiconductor design; materials used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards; and integrated metallization processes critical for interconnection, corrosion resistance, metal finishing and decorative applications. These enabling materials are found in applications such as consumer electronics, flat panel displays and telecommunications.
Dow Electronic Materials
is a portfolio of businesses characterized by a vast global footprint, a broad array of unique chemistries, multi-functional ingredients and technology capabilities, combined with key positions in the pharmaceuticals, food, home and personal care, water and energy production, and industrial specialty industries. These technology capabilities and market platforms enable the businesses to develop innovative solutions that address modern societal needs for sufficient and clean water, air and energy, material preservation and improved health care, disease prevention, nutrition and wellness. The businesses global footprint and geographic reach provide multiple opportunities for value growth. Specialty Materials consists of five global businesses: Dow Water and Process Solutions, Dow Home and Personal Care, Dow Microbial Control, Dow Wolff Cellulosics and Performance Materials.
Specialty Materials
 
5
 
The Electronic and Specialty Materials segment also includes the Companys share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company.
COATINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
building and construction, insulation and weatherization, roofing membrane systems, adhesives and sealants  cellulosic-based construction additives  construction materials (vinyl siding, vinyl windows, vinyl fencing)  flexible and rigid packaging  general mortars and concrete, cement modifiers and plasters, tile adhesives and grouts  house and traffic paints  leather, textile, graphic arts and paper  metal coatings  pipeline coatings  processing aids for plastic production  tapes and labels  transportation and corrosion protection
Applications:
is a portfolio of businesses that primarily manufacture sticking and bonding solutions for a wide range of applications, including adhesive tapes and paper labels, flexible packaging and leather, textile and imaging. These products are supported with market recognized best-in-class technical support and end-use application knowledge. Many of the businesses water-borne technologies are well-positioned to support more environmentally preferred applications.
Dow Adhesives and Functional Polymers
is comprised of three global businesses  Dow Building Solutions, Dow Construction Chemicals and Dow Solar Solutions  which offer extensive lines of industry-leading insulation, housewrap, sealant and adhesive products and systems, as well as construction chemical solutions and building-integrated photovoltaics. Through its strong sales support, customer service and technical expertise, Dow Building Solutions provides meaningful solutions for improving the energy efficiency in homes and buildings today, while also addressing the industrys emerging needs and demands. Additionally, Dow Construction Chemicals provides solutions for increased durability, greater water resistance and lower systems costs. As a leader in insulation solutions, the businesses products help curb escalating utility bills, reduce a buildings carbon footprint and provide a more comfortable indoor environment. Dow Solar Solutions is focused on developing the next generation of solar energy products to solve global energy challenges.
Dow Building and Construction
 
6
 
is the largest coatings supplier in the world and a premier supplier of raw materials for architectural paints and industrial coatings. The business manufactures and delivers solutions that leverage high quality, technologically advanced product offerings for paint and coatings. The business also offers technologies used in industrial coatings, including packaging, pipelines, wood, automotive, marine, maintenance and protective industries. The business is also the leader in the conversion of solvent to water-based technologies, which enable customers to offer more environmentally friendly products, including low volatile organic compound (VOC) paints and other sustainable coatings.
Dow Coating Materials
HEALTH AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
: agricultural seeds, traits (genes) and oils  control of weeds, insects and plant diseases for agriculture and pest management
Applications
is a global leader in providing agricultural and plant biotechnology products, pest management solutions and healthy oils. The business invents, develops, manufactures and markets products for use in agriculture, industrial and commercial pest management, and food service.
Dow AgroSciences
The Health and Agricultural Sciences segment also includes the results of the AgroFresh business, providing a portfolio of products used for maintaining the freshness of fruits, vegetables and flowers.
PERFORMANCE SYSTEMS
: automotive interiors, exteriors, under-the-hood and body engineered systems  bedding  caps and closures  food and specialty packaging  footwear  furniture  gaskets and sealing components  manufactured housing and modular construction  medical equipment  mining  pipe treatment  pressure sensitive adhesives  transportation  vinyl exteriors  waterproofing membranes  wire and cable insulation and jacketing materials for power utility and telecommunications
Applications
is a leading global provider of technology-driven solutions that meet consumer demand for vehicles that are safer, stronger, quieter, lighter, more comfortable and stylish. The business provides plastics, adhesives, glass bonding systems, emissions control technology, films, fluids, structural enhancement and acoustical management solutions to original equipment manufacturers, tier, aftermarket and commercial transportation customers. With offices and application development centers around the world, Dow Automotive Systems provides materials science expertise and comprehensive technical capabilities to its customers worldwide.
Dow Automotive Systems
 
7
 
offers a unique set of elastomers, specialty films and plastic additive products for customers worldwide. The business is focused on delivering innovative solutions that allow for differentiated participation in multiple industries and applications. The business offers a broad range of performance elastomers and plastomers, specialty copolymers, synthetic rubber, specialty resins, and films and plastic additives. Key applications include adhesives, transportation, building and construction, packaging and consumer durables.
Dow Elastomers
manufactures and markets custom formulated, rigid and semi-rigid, flexible, integral skin and microcellular polyurethane foams and systems and tailor-made epoxy solutions and systems. These products are used in a broad range of applications including appliances, athletic equipment, automotive, bedding, construction, decorative molding, furniture, shoe soles and wind turbines.
Dow Formulated Systems
is the worlds leading provider of polymers, additives and specialty oil technology-based solutions for electrical and telecommunication applications. Through its suite of polyolefin ENDURANCE products, the business sets industry standards for assurance of longevity, efficiency, ease of installation and protection in the transmission, distribution and consumption of power, voice and data. In addition to world-class power, telecommunications and flame retardant/specialty cable applications, the business supports its product offerings with solid research, product development, engineering and market validation expertise.
Dow Wire and Cable
The Performance Systems segment also includes the results of Dow Fiber Solutions, providing differentiated fibers and process improvements to the textile industry, and Dow Oil and Gas, providing products for use in exploration and production, refining and gas processing, transportation, and fuel and lubricant performance.
On March 2, 2010, Dow announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell Styron to an affiliate of Bain Capital Partners; the transaction closed on June 17, 2010. Businesses and products sold included Synthetic Rubber and certain products from Dow Automotive Systems, which were reported in the Performance Systems segment through the date of the divestiture.
PERFORMANCE PRODUCTS
: adhesives  aircraft and runway deicing fluids  appliances  carpeting  chelating agents  chemical intermediates  civil engineering  cleaning products  coated paper and paperboard  composites  construction  corrosion inhibitors  detergents, cleaners and fabric softeners  electrical castings, potting and encapsulation and tooling  electrical laminates  electronics  flavors and fragrances  flooring  footwear  gas treatment  heat transfer fluids  home and office furnishings  industrial coatings  mattresses  metalworking fluids  packaging  sealants  surfactants
Applications
 
8
 
The business is the worlds largest producer of ethanolamines, ethyleneamines and isopropanolamines used in a wide variety of applications, including gas treatment, heavy-duty liquid detergents, herbicide formulations for the agricultural industry and personal care products.
Amines
The business provided a broad line of styrene-butadiene products supporting customers in paper and paperboard applications, as well as carpet and artificial turf backings.
Emulsion Polymers
On March 2, 2010, Dow announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell Styron to an affiliate of Bain Capital Partners; the transaction closed on June 17, 2010. Businesses sold included Emulsion Polymers (styrene-butadiene latex), which was reported in the Performance Products segment through the date of the divestiture.
The business is the worlds largest producer of epoxy resins and intermediates. The business is the most feedstock-integrated supplier in the world. Epoxies provide good adhesion and coating protection over a range of environmental conditions, making them ideal for applications such as transportation, marine and civil engineering.
Epoxy
The business offers a full range of acetone derivatives, alcohols, esters, and ethylene- and propylene-based glycol ether products. The business is the industry leader in solvent products used in cleaning products, inks, electronics, mining, paints and coatings, personal care and other applications.
Oxygenated Solvents
The business produces specialty monomer products that are sold externally as well as consumed internally as building blocks used in downstream polymer businesses. The business products are used in several applications, including cleaning materials, personal care products, paints, coatings and inks.
Performance Monomers
The business is one of the worlds leading suppliers of polyglycols and surfactants, with a broad range of products and technology and a proven record of performance and economy. The business also produces a broad line of lubricants, hydraulic fluids, aircraft deicing fluids and thermal fluids, with some of the most recognized brand names in the industry. Product applications include chemical processing, cleaning, heating, cooling, food and beverage processing, fuel additives, paints and coatings, pharmaceuticals and silicone surfactants.
Polyglycols, Surfactants and Fluids
The business is a leading global producer of polyurethane raw materials. Dows polyurethane products are used in a broad range of applications including appliance, athletic equipment, automotive, bedding, construction, decorative molding, furniture and shoe soles.
Polyurethanes
 
9
 
The Performance Products segment also includes the results of Dow Haltermann, a provider of world-class contract manufacturing services to companies in the fine and specialty chemicals and polymers industries, and SAFECHEM, a wholly owned subsidiary that manufactures closed-loop systems to manage the risks associated with chlorinated solvents. The segment also includes a portion of the results of the OPTIMAL Group of Companies (through the September 30, 2009 divestiture of this group of joint ventures) and the SCG-Dow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
PLASTICS
: adhesives  appliances and appliance housings  agricultural films  automotive parts and trim  beverage bottles  bins, crates, pails and pallets  building and construction  coatings  consumer and durable goods  consumer electronics  disposable diaper liners  fibers and nonwovens  films, bags and packaging for food and consumer products  hoses and tubing  household and industrial bottles  housewares  hygiene and medical films  industrial and consumer films and foams  information technology  oil tanks and road equipment  plastic pipe  textiles  toys, playground equipment and recreational products  wire and cable compounds
Applications
The business is the worlds leading supplier of polyethylene-based solutions through sustainable product differentiation. With multiple catalyst and process technologies, the business offers customers one of the industrys broadest ranges of polyethylene resins.
Polyethylene
The business, a major global polypropylene supplier, provides a broad range of products and solutions tailored to customer needs by leveraging Dows leading manufacturing and application technology, research and product development expertise, extensive market knowledge and strong customer relationships.
Polypropylene
The business, the global leader in the production of polystyrene resins, is uniquely positioned with geographic breadth and participation in a diversified portfolio of applications.
Styrenics
On March 2, 2010, Dow announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell Styron to an affiliate of Bain Capital Partners; the transaction closed on June 17, 2010. Businesses sold included Styrenics (polystyrene, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, styrene acrylonitrile and expandable polystyrene), Polycarbonate and Compounds and Blends, as well as the Companys 50 percent ownership interest in Americas Styrenics LLC, a nonconsolidated affiliate; all of which were reported in the Plastics segment through the date of the divestiture.
The Plastics segment also includes the results of the Plastics Licensing and Catalyst business and the Polycarbonate and Compounds and Blends business (through the June 17, 2010 divestiture of Styron). It also includes the results of Equipolymers, Americas Styrenics LLC (through the June 17, 2010 divestiture of Styron) and Univation Technologies, LLC (which licenses the UNIPOL polyethylene process and sells related catalysts, including metallocene catalysts), as well as a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the SCG-Dow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
CHEMICALS AND ENERGY
: agricultural products  alumina  automotive antifreeze and coolant systems  carpet and textiles  chemical processing  dry cleaning  household cleaners and plastic products  inks  metal cleaning  packaging, food and beverage containers  paints, coatings and adhesives  personal care products  petroleum refining  pharmaceuticals  plastic pipe  power  protective packaging  pulp and paper manufacturing  soaps and detergents  water treatment
Applications
 
10
 
The business focuses on the production of chlorine for consumption by downstream Dow derivatives, as well as production, marketing and supply of ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride monomer and caustic soda. These products are used for applications such as alumina production, pulp and paper manufacturing, soaps and detergents and building and construction. Dow is the worlds largest producer of both chlorine and caustic soda.
Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl
The business supplies power, steam and other utilities, principally for use in Dows global operations.
Energy
The business is the worlds largest producer of purified ethylene oxide, principally used in Dows downstream performance derivatives. Dow is also a key supplier of ethylene glycol to MEGlobal, a 50:50 joint venture and a world leader in the manufacture and marketing of merchant monoethylene glycol and diethylene glycol. Ethylene glycol is used in polyester fiber, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) for food and beverage container applications, polyester film, and aircraft and runway deicers.
Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol
The Chemicals and Energy segment also includes the results of the Chlorinated Organics business. Also included in the Chemicals and Energy segment are the results of MEGlobal and a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the OPTIMAL Group of Companies (through the September 30, 2009 divestiture of this group of joint ventures), all joint ventures of the Company.
HYDROCARBONS
: polymer and chemical production
Applications
The business encompasses the procurement of natural gas liquids and crude oil-based raw materials, as well as the supply of monomers, principally for use in Dows global operations. The business regularly sells its by-products and buys and sells products in order to balance regional production capabilities and derivative requirements. The business also sells products to certain Dow joint ventures. Dow is the world leader in the production of olefins and aromatics.
Hydrocarbons
The Hydrocarbons segment also includes the results of Compaa Mega S.A. and a portion of the results of The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the SCG-Dow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
On March 2, 2010, Dow announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell Styron to an affiliate of Bain Capital Partners; the transaction closed on June 17, 2010. Businesses and products sold included certain styrene monomer assets, which were reported in the Hydrocarbons segment through the date of the divestiture.
includes the results of Ventures (which includes new business incubation platforms focused on identifying and pursuing new commercial opportunities); Venture Capital; non-business aligned technology licensing and catalyst activities; the Companys insurance operations and environmental operations; and certain corporate overhead costs and cost recovery variances not allocated to the operating segments. In 2009, Corporate also included the results of the Salt business, which the Company acquired with the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas and sold to K+S Aktiengesellschaft on October 1, 2009.
Corporate
 Trademarks of The Dow Chemical Company (Dow) or an affiliated company of Dow.
SmartStax is a trademark of Monsanto Technology LLC
 
11
 
 
 
 
12
 
 


