FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20110217115701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
 
The documents listed below (the Documents) are required to be filed as exhibits to The Dow Chemical Company (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the 10-K).  For administrative convenience and to avoid further increasing the size of the 10-K, the Company is filing the Documents as exhibits to this optional Current Report on Form 8-K and will incorporate the Documents into the 10-K by reference hereto.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is the Rohm and Haas Company Non-Qualified Retirement Plan (the "Plan"), which was amended and restated effective January 1, 2005.  The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the "Code") and is to be construed in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder.
 
This amendment and restatement of the Plan shall apply only to deferrals of compensation on or after January 1, 2005 and, except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this amendment and restatement shall be effective as of January 1, 2009.  Amounts considered "deferred" (under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder) prior to January 1, 2005 shall continue to be subject to the terms of the Plan as in effect prior to January 1, 2005.
 
The purpose of the Plan is to provide additional pension benefits for a select group of management and highly compensated employees whose pre-retirement income involves significant performance-related award payments.
 
In addition, to the extent not provided for in the preceding paragraph, the Plan also provides additional pension benefits for employees whose pension benefits determined under the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan (the "Retirement Plan") are limited by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
The Plan covers eligible employees hired on or after January 1, 2001, except for employees of Morton International, Inc. ("Standard Participants").  Standard Participants shall be subject to the provisions of the main portion of the Plan (the "Standard") which, except as otherwise provided, describes the Plan provisions applicable to all Participants.  Eligible employees of Morton International, Inc. who are hired on or after January 1, 2001 participate in the Plan as Legacy Morton Plan Participants, as discussed below.
 
The Plan also covers (i) eligible employees who elected to remain covered under the benefit structure of a Legacy Plan during the Pension Choice process, rather than to participate in the more recent benefit structure described in the "Standard" portion of the Retirement Plan and (ii) eligible employees of Morton International, Inc. who are hired on or after January 1, 2001 and are not eligible to participate in the Standard portion of the Retirement Plan (collectively, "Legacy Plan Participants").  Prior to this restatement, the Retirement Income of a Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participant and a Legacy Morton Plan Participant was calculated under and subject to the terms of the Rohm and Haas Non-Qualified Pension Plan and the Morton International, Inc. Excess Pension Plan, respectively (referred to collectively as the "Non-Qualified Legacy Plans").  Effective as of January 1, 2005, with respect to benefits accrued on or after January 1, 2005, the Non-Qualified Legacy Plans have been merged with and into the Plan, and the provisions of the Non-Qualified Legacy Plans, to the extent that they differ from the Standard provisions, have been preserved and catalogued at the end of the of the Standard portion of the Plan as "Riders." Therefore, effective as of January 1,2005, the Retirement Income of Legacy Plan Participants shall be determined under the Standard portion of the Plan, except to the extent superseded by the terms of an applicable Rider.
 
Finally, the Plan covers Legacy Plan Participants who elected to participate in the more recent benefit structure described in the "Standard" portion of the Retirement Plan during the Pension Choice process ("Former Legacy Plan Participants").  The Retirement Income of Former Legacy Plan Participants shall be calculated in two pieces:  the first piece shall be determined under the terms and provisions of the applicable Rider (or, prior to January 1, 2005, under the applicable Non-Qualified Legacy Plan), using service accrued up to the day before such Participant's Effective Pension Choice Date (however, compensation increases on or after the Participant's Effective Pension Choice date shall be counted in determining this piece).  
 
 
4
 
 
The second piece shall be calculated under the terms and provisions of the Plan, using service accrued beginning on and after such Participant's Effective Pension Choice Date.
 
The following Table explains which Plan provisions are applicable to a particular group of Participants:
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual shall become a Participant in the Plan on or after March 1, 2009.
 
 
 
The terms used herein shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
 
 
"Actuarial Equivalent" or "Actuarially Equivalent" means, except as otherwise provided in an applicable Rider, the equivalent actuarial value of a single life annuity, determined based upon the advice of the Plan's actuary using the appropriate factors listed in Appendix B.
 
 
Administrative Committee means the Rohm and Haas Benefits Administrative Committee.  The duties of the Administrative Committee are defined in Article XIII.  The Company has designated the Administrative Committee to be the named fiduciary of the Plan for administrative matters as outlined in the Plan.
 
 
"Administrative Leave of Absence" means that period during which the Participant is absent without compensation and for which the Administrative Committee, in its sole discretion, has determined him to be on a "Leave of Absence" instead of being a terminated employee.
 
 
"Affiliated Company" means the Sponsor and:
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
"Base Pay" means normal wages or salary paid by the Employer including short term disability or sick pay, vacation pay, holiday pay, jury duty pay, bereavement pay, salary reductions under a Company-sponsored Code Section 401(k) or Code Section 125 plan, or a Code Section 132(f)(4) transportation fringe benefit program, personal time pay, military pay, expatriate split salary pay, and supplemental workers' compensation payments, but shall exclude any workers' compensation payments, long-tern disability payments and unused vacation payments.  If an Employee's Base Pay is paid in a currency other than United States dollars, conversion to United States dollars, for purposes of the Plan, shall be effected by means of determining the arithmetic average of such conversion rates used for accounting purposes by and in effect at the Company's headquarters in the United States during the 36 consecutive month period ending with the month as of which his benefits are determined.
 
 
"Beneficiary" means the person, trust or institution designated to receive benefits under the Plan upon the Participant's death, other than survivor benefits under a joint and survivor form of payment as described in Option B or Option C under Article VII.  The Beneficiary of a Participant who has not effectively designated a Beneficiary shall be the Participant's estate.
 
 
"Benefit Service" means, except as otherwise provided in an applicable Rider, that part of a Participant's Service that is used to calculate benefits under the Plan and shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Articles III and XII of the Retirement Plan, and Articles IV or XII, as applicable, of this Plan.
 
 
"Board " means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
 
"Bonus" includes the annual bonus awarded in March of each Plan Year (the "Annual Bonus"); the Leadership Council Bonus (the "LCB Bonus"); and certain sales incentive programs, as well as any "extra wages" earned while holding a temporary job with the Company.  The Annual Bonus shall be included in the term "Bonus" regardless of whether it is actually distributed in March.  The term "Bonus" excludes all other bonuses and special awards.
 
 
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
 
"Company" means the Sponsor and such of its Affiliated Companies as may be designated from time to time by its Board of Directors and as may adopt the Plan.
 
 
"Compensation" means for all purposes unless specified otherwise, Base Pay, Bonus, overtime pay, Shift Payments and commissions.  For purposes of this Plan, a Participant's Compensation shall be calculated without reference to the limitations of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code.
 
 
"Determination Date" means the date as of which a specified determination or calculation is made.
 
 
6
 
 
 
"Disability" or "Disabled" means a Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, and as a result of such impairment is eligible to receive benefits under the long-term disability plan sponsored by the Company or is eligible to receive disability benefits under the Social Security Act as determined by the Social Security Administration.
 
 
"Disability Retirement" means a Participant's Separation from Service on or after becoming Disabled.
 
 
"Early Retirement" means a Participant's Separation from Service on or after reaching age 55 with 5 years of Vesting Service, but before reaching age 65 (or upon meeting such other requirements as provided in Article XII).
 
 
"Effective Date" of this amendment and restatement is January 1, 2009.  The original effective date of the Plan is April 1, 2001.
 
 
"Effective Pension Choice Date" means the date on which a Legacy Plan Participant's choice, made pursuant to the Pension Choice process, became effective, as set forth in Appendix D of the Retirement Plan.
 
 
"Employee" means any salaried employee of the Company who is employed on a regular full-time basis.
 
 
"Employer" means the Sponsor and:
 
 
 
 
"Eligible Employee" means any Employee, excluding any Employees who are Leased Employees, temporary Employees or temporary transfers, student co-op Employees or independent contractors as defined in the Retirement Plan.
 
 
"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any regulations issued pursuant thereto.
 
 
7
 
 
 
"Final Average Compensation" means, except as otherwise provided in an applicable Rider, for any Participant (except as otherwise provided in Article XII), the arithmetic average of the highest sixty (60) consecutive months of Compensation out of the last one hundred and twenty (120) months of Compensation.  In determining a Participant's Final Average Compensation, the following rules apply:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Former Legacy Plan Participant" means a Participant in a Legacy Plan who irrevocably elected, through the Pension Choice process, to "switch" into the benefit structure described in the Standard portion of the Retirement Plan.  Any non-qualified pension benefits which may be accrued by a Former Legacy Plan Participant under this Plan shall be subject to the special provisions set forth in Article XII of this Plan.
 
 
"Grandfathered Amount" means, with respect to any Participant, the amount of Retirement Income, if any, that is considered "deferred" under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder prior to January 1, 2005, which amount shall continue to be subject to the terms of the Plan and the Non-Qualified Legacy Plans as in effect prior to January 1, 2005.
 
 
"Investment Committee" means the Rohm and Haas Benefits Investment Committee.  The duties of the Investment Committee are defined in Article XIII.  The Company has designated this Committee to be the named fiduciary of the Plan for financial matters as outlined in the Plan.
 
 
"Legacy Plan" means the Rohm and Haas Pension Plan or the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan.
 
 
"Legacy Plan Participant" means (i) either a Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participant or a Legacy Morton Plan Participant, as defined below (collectively referred to as "Legacy Plan Participants") who irrevocably elected in 2001, through the Pension Choice process, to remain covered by the benefit structure of a Legacy Plan and (ii) Eligible Employees of Morton International, Inc. who are hired on or after January 1, 2001 and are not eligible to participate in the Standard portion of the Plan.
 
 
8
 
 
 
"Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participant" means any participant who elected to remain covered under the benefit structure of the former Rohm and Haas Pension Plan, the terms of which are preserved and set forth in Rider 1 of the Retirement Plan.
 
 
"Legacy Morton Plan Participant" means any Participant who is covered under the benefit structure of the former Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan, the terms of which are preserved and set forth in Rider 2 of the Retirement Plan.
 
 
"Non-Qualified Legacy Plan" means the Rohm and Haas Non-Qualified Pension Plan or the Morton International, Inc. Excess Benefit Plan, as applicable.
 
 
"Normal Retirement" means a Participant's Separation from Service on or after reaching age 65.
 
 
"Participant" means, except as otherwise provided in an applicable Rider, any Eligible Employee who has met the conditions for participation in Article III.
 
 
"Pension Choice" means the process, as determined by the Administrative Committee, by which a Participant in a Legacy Plan elected to either remain covered by the terms and provisions of a Legacy Plan, or to "switch" into the benefit structure described in the Standard portion of the Retirement Plan.  Participants in a Legacy Plan who elected to remain in such Legacy Plan, are subject to the additional or alternative provisions of Rider Nos. 1 or 2 to the Plan, as applicable.  Participants who chose to "switch" into the new benefit structure described in the "Standard" portion of the Retirement Plan are subject to the additional provisions of Article XII of this Plan.
 
 
"Plan" means the Rohm and Haas Company Non-Qualified Retirement Plan.
 
 
"Plan Year" means the period beginning each December 31 at 12:01 a.m. and ending at midnight on December 30 of the following calendar year.
st
th
 
 
"Predecessor Company" means any organization acquired by the Company.
 
 
"Retirement" or "Retires" means, a Participant's Normal Retirement, Early Retirement or Disability Retirement.
 
 
"Retirement Income" means the amount of vested pension benefit which a Participant is entitled to receive beginning on the applicable payment date provided in Article VII.
 
 
9
 
 
 
"Retirement Plan" means the Rohm and Haas Retirement Plan, effective April 1, 2001, as amended from time to time.  References herein to a particular article or section of the Retirement Plan refers to that article or section of the Retirement Plan document that was effective April 1, 2001, and to the provision under any successor plan document that corresponds to such article or section in substance, even if the numbering changes.
 
 
"Separation from Service" means a Participant's termination of employment with the Employer that meets the requirements of a "separation from service" as defined under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance thereunder.
 
 
"Shift Payments" shall mean the shift differential payments made to individuals who work other than "day" shifts, and payments to supervisors of hourly employees who work a rotating shift or any shift other than a "day" shift ("rotating shift adjustment payments").
 
 
"Social Security Retirement Age" means the date specified in Article I of the Retirement Plan.
 
 
"Specified Employee" means a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, which, consistent with such Code provision, shall mean, for any 12-month period beginning on April 1 and ending on the following March 31, a Participant who, as of the preceding December 31, was (i) an officer of an Employer having annual compensation (as defined in Section 414(q)(4) of the Code) greater than $130,000 (as adjusted under Section 416(i)(l) of the Code), (ii) a "five-percent owner" of an Employer (as defined in Section 416(i)(1)(B) of the Code), or (iii) a person having annual compensation (as defined in Section 414(q)(4) of the Code) of more than $150,000 and who would be classified as a "five-percent owner" of an Employer under Section 416(i)(1)(B) of the Code if "one percent" were substituted for "five percent" each time it appears in the definition of such term.
 
 
"Sponsor" means the Rohm and Haas Company.
 
 
"Standard" means the standard provisions of the Plan, as set forth in Articles I through XV thereof and Appendices A and B thereto.
 
 
"Standard Participant" means any individual hired on or after January 1, 2001 by an Employer other than Morton International, Inc., who becomes a Participant in this Plan.
 
 
"United States Social Security Wage Base" means the contribution and benefit base as set forth in the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, as amended.
 
 
10
 
 
 
"Vesting Service" means, except as otherwise provided in an applicable Rider, that part of a Participant's Service that is used to calculate vesting under the Plan and shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Articles III and XII of the Retirement Plan, and Articles IV and XII of this Plan.
 
 
 
 
Except as provided in Article XII or an applicable Rider, each Eligible Employee of the Company shall become a Participant on the first of the month coincident with or next following the date on which the Eligible Employee first becomes classified as an exempt level 14 or above.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual shall become a Participant in the Plan on or after March 1,2009.
 
 
Any Participant who terminates employment and returns as an Eligible Employee will become a Participant in the Plan as provided in Article X.
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of Article XII and any applicable Rider, a Participant's Benefit Service shall be the Benefit Service the Participant is credited with under Articles III and XII, as applicable, of the Retirement Plan.
 
 
Subject to the provisions of Articles XII and any applicable Rider, a Participant's Vesting Service shall be the Vesting Service the Participant is credited with under Articles III and XII, as applicable, of the Retirement Plan.
 
 
 
 
Except as provided in Section 5.4 below, and subject to the provisions of Article XII and any applicable Rider, the monthly Retirement Income payable to a Participant who Retires at age 65 shall be an amount expressed as a single life annuity equal to:
 
1.25% multiplied by Final Average Compensation multiplied by Benefit Service
 
MINUS
 
the monthly benefit payable to the Participant under the Retirement Plan in the form of a single life annuity commencing at his "Normal Retirement Date" (as defined in the Retirement Plan).
 
 
Except as may be otherwise provided in Article XII and any applicable Rider, the amount of Retirement Income of a Participant who Retires upon or after reaching age 55 with 5 years of Vesting Service, but before reaching age 65 (or
 
 
11
 
 
upon meeting such other requirements for Early Retirement as provided in Article XII), shall be calculated as if the Participant was retiring at age 65, as described in Section 5.1 above; except that, in cases where the Participant retires between the ages of 55 and 62, his amount of Retirement Income shall be reduced by 0.5% (.005) for each month by which such Participant's payment commencement date under Article VII precedes the Participant's attainment of age 62.  A chart showing the appropriate reduction factor by age is provided in Table 1 of Appendix A Notwithstanding the foregoing, the reduction factor for a Participant who retires on an Involuntary Early Retirement Date as described in Article XI of the Retirement Plan shall be determined by adding four years to his age.
 
 
Except as may be otherwise provided in Article XII and any applicable Rider, the amount of Retirement Income of a Participant who Separates from Service before becoming eligible for an Early Retirement shall be calculated in accordance with Section 5.1 above, and then actuarially reduced using the factors found in Table 2 of Appendix A.
 
 
Except as may be otherwise provided in Article XII and any applicable Rider, the calculation of the amount of Retirement Income for a Participant who Retires after age 65 shall be calculated in accordance with Section 5.1 above, but increased to reflect additional Benefit Service and Vesting Service, and increases in Final Average Compensation.  However, the amount of Retirement Income shall not include actuarial increases to reflect the later payment.
 
 
Except as may be otherwise provided in an applicable Rider, a Participant who Retires due to a Disability will continue to accrue Benefit Service and Vesting Service until such Participant has attained age 65.  However, if a Participant Retires due to a Disability before attaining age 65, such Participant's Retirement Income shall be calculated in accordance with Section 5.1 above as of the date of such Retirement.  Upon reaching age 65, such Participant's Retirement Income shall be recalculated to include the Benefit Service and Vesting Service imputed to such Participant for period beginning on the date of his Retirement and ending on the Participant's attainment of age 65.
 
 
The determination of the amount of a Legacy Plan Participant's Retirement Income under this Plan shall be subject to the additional or alternative provisions of Rider Nos. l or 2 to the Plan, as applicable.
 
 
The determination of the amount of a Former Legacy Participant's Retirement Income under this Plan shall be subject to the additional provisions of Article XII.
 
 
12
 
 
 
Except as may be otherwise provided in an applicable Rider, a Participant shall become 100% vested in his Retirement Income on the earliest of (i) the date on which the Participant is credited with five (5) years of Vesting Service, (ii) the date on which the Participant reaches age 65, or (iii) the date on which the Participant becomes otherwise 100% vested in his "Accrued Benefit" (as defined in the Retirement Plan) under the Retirement Plan.
 
Prior to reaching any of the dates described in (i) through (iii) above, the Participant shall be 0% vested in his Retirement Income.
 
 
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the Plan, including any applicable Rider, a Participant whose employment is terminated for violating the Rohm and Haas Company Code of Business Conduct and Ethics shall forfeit all previously accrued benefits and shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Plan.
 
 
 
 
Except as may be otherwise provided in an applicable Rider, benefits under the Plan shall be paid as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
Except as provided in Sections 7.4, 7.5 and 7.6, the form of payment of Retirement Income under this Plan shall be determined as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in an applicable Rider and in Section 7.1.4, notwithstanding the time of payment set forth in Sections 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.1.3 hereof and the form of payment elected by the Participant in accordance with Section 7.2, payment of a Participant's Retirement Income shall be made:
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant may elect to change his elected form of payment (or deemed elected form of payment if Section 7.2.2 applies) prior to the date upon which benefits under the previously elected form of payment would otherwise commence as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, amounts payable hereunder may be delayed after the date(s) specified under this Article VII under the following circumstances, each to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Administrative Committee shall have the sole and absolute discretion to provide the Cost-of-Living Adjustment described below.  The Administrative Committee may base such a decision on any factors it deems relevant and is under no continuing obligation to provide a Cost-of-Living Adjustment for any year, regardless of whether it made such adjustments in prior years.  However, no Cost-of-Living Adjustment shall be provided with respect to benefits earned after December 30, 2008.  Accordingly, any Cost-of-Living Adjustment provided after December 30, 2008, shall be applied only to benefits the Participant earned before December 31, 2008 (determined after any early retirement reduction).  If a Participant accrues benefits under the Plan before December 31, 2008, and after December 30, 2008, the Participant shall receive the sum of (i) the pre-December 31, 2008, benefits with any Cost-of-Living Adjustments and (ii) the post-December 30, 2008, benefits without any Cost-of Living Adjustments.
 
 
Any Participant age 60 or older who Retired from the Company at age 55 or later and who is receiving monthly payments, or any surviving spouse or Beneficiary of such a Participant who is receiving monthly payments, shall receive, subject to the Administrative Committee's discretion as described above, an annual Cost-Of-Living Adjustment equal to the percentage increase in the United States Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W Revised) from the previous December to the December of the year immediately preceding the March 31 adjustment date.  The Cost-of Living Adjustment is subject to the following additional conditions and limitations:
st
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any such adjustment shall be payable with the monthly payment payable for the month of March following the close of such calendar year in an amount determined by Section 8.1.1 or Section 8.1.2.
 
 
The determination of the Cost-of-Living Adjustment payable to Former Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participants shall be subject to the additional provisions of Article XII.
 
 
 
 
In general, when a Participant's earnings are suspended as a result of (i) temporary absences from work because of leave; (ii) indefinite absences due to sickness or accident; or (iii) an Administrative Leave of Absence, the Participant shall continue to remain in the Plan so long as he continues to satisfy the requirements of Article III and his employment relationship with the Company has not been terminated and he has not Separated from Service.  Benefit Service for such periods of absence shall be provided at the rate of 1/12 of a year of Benefit Service (as defined in Article IV and Article XI or Article XII, if applicable) for each month of absence.  In addition, if, during such period, the Participant Separates from Service and does not terminate his employment with the Company, Benefit Service shall be credited for the period after Separation from Service and before returning to active employment at the rate of 1/12 of a year of Benefit Service (as defined in Article IV and Article XI or Article XII, if applicable) for each month of absence.
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
If a Participant experiences a Separation from Service prior to Retirement, and is subsequently reemployed as an Eligible Employee:
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Participant who Retires under the provisions of this Plan is subsequently reemployed as an Eligible Employee:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
 
The terms and provisions regarding the benefits of Legacy Plan Participants who irrevocably elected, through the Pension Choice process, to remain covered under the benefit structure of a Legacy Plan, or who are not eligible to participate in the Standard portion of the Plan, are contained in (i) Articles I through X and XIII through XV of the Standard portion of this Plan to the extent not superseded by an applicable Rider, (ii) for Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participants, Rider No. 1 of this Plan and Rider No. 1 of the Retirement Plan, and (iii) for Legacy Morton Plan Participants, Rider No. 2 of this Plan and Rider No. 2 of the Retirement Plan.
 
 
 
The provisions of this Article XII are applicable to Legacy Plan Participants who irrevocably elected, through the Pension Choice process, to "switch" into and be covered by the benefit structure of the Standard portion of the Retirement Plan on a prospective basis ("Former Legacy Plan Participants").  To the extent that the provisions of this Article XII conflict with any other provisions in this Plan, the provisions in this Article XII shall control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
:  A Participant's monthly Retirement Income as of the Participant's attainment of age 65 shall be a single life annuity equal to , where:
Special Formula
1/12th x (A -B) x C
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* 
The terms "Final Average Compensation," "Award Program Adjustment," and "Covered Compensation" shall have the meanings as set forth in Rider 1 to the Rohm and Haas Company Non-Qualified Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005.
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
Former Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participants who are age 55 but not yet 62 and who retire on an Involuntary Early Retirement Date, as provided in Article XI of the Retirement Plan, shall be entitled to a Social Security Supplemental Benefit of four hundred dollars ($400) per month.  Payment of the Social Security Supplemental Benefit shall be subject to the following rules:
 
 
 
 
 
Former Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participants age 55 or older who Retire on an Involuntary Early Retirement Date, as provided in Article XI of the Retirement Plan, shall be entitled to begin to receive the cost-of-living adjustments described in Article VIII of this Plan beginning at age 55.  Former Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participants who do NOT retire on an Involuntary Early Retirement Date, as provided in Article XI of the Retirement Plan, may receive the benefit described in this Section 12.4 at the discretion of the Administrative Committee.  The Administrative Committee may base such decision on any factors it deems relevant and shall not be bound, or have its discretion in any way limited or restricted, by past determinations.
 
 
 
 
The Administrative Committee will be responsible for the administration of the Plan and the Investment Committee will be responsible for the financial performance of the Plan.  Members of the Administrative Committee shall be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee.  Members of the Investment Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Directors.
 
 
The Administrative Committee shall have the full responsibility to represent the Company and the Participants in all things it may deem necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the decision
 
 
22
 
 
of the Administrative Committee upon any question of fact, interpretation, definition or procedure relating to the administration of the Plan shall be conclusive.  The responsibilities of the Administrative Committee shall include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following general provision shall govern the actions of either the Administrative or Investment Committee:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company expects to continue the Plan indefinitely, but necessarily reserves the right at any time to reduce, suspend or discontinue payments to be made by it as provided hereunder.  The Company reserves the right to amend or discontinue the Plan at any time and without further notice.  In the event of a Plan termination, benefits accrued at the time of termination shall be paid in accordance with Article VII; provided that the Company may accelerate payments to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code.
 
 
23
 
 
 
This Plan is an unfunded arrangement.  The right of any Participant, surviving spouse or Beneficiary to receive future payments under the provisions of the Plan shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company.  Any trust, and any other fund, account, contract or arrangement that the Company chooses to establish for the future payment of benefits under this Plan to a Participant, surviving spouse or Beneficiary shall remain part of the Company's general assets and no person claiming payments under the Plan shall have any right, title or interest in or to any such trust, fund, account, contract or arrangement.
 
 
Whenever any gender is used herein, it is intended also to cover the other gender where appropriate, and wherever the singular is used, it shall be interpreted as including the plural.
 
 
Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, to the extent permitted by law, payments to and benefits under the Plan shall not be assignable, since they are primarily for the support and maintenance of the Participant after retirement.  To extent permitted by law, such payments and benefits shall not be subject to attachment by creditors of, or through legal processes against, any Participant, Beneficiary, or surviving spouse.
 
 
Participation in the Plan shall not give any Employee the right to be retained in the service of the Company, nor any right or claim to annuity income unless such right has specifically accrued under the terms of the Plan.
 
 
If any person entitled to receive any benefits hereunder is a minor, or is deemed by the Administrative Committee or is adjudged to be legally incapable of giving a valid receipt and discharge for such benefits, they will be paid to the duly appointed guardian, custodian or committee of such minor or incompetent, or they maybe paid to such persons who the Administrative Committee believes are caring for or supporting such minor or incompetent.
 
 
Any Participant, spouse or Beneficiary who claims to be entitled to the payment of a benefit under the Plan, should bring the matter to the attention of the Company, normally through a local personnel department.  If a specific claim as to the amount of any benefit, the method of payment or any other matter under the Plan is denied, the claimant will be provided with a written notice, normally within 90 days of the date the claim was filed.
 
The notice will include:
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of an appeal, the claimant or the claimant's representative, may submit a written application for review of the denial, may examine documents relating to this Plan or the claim, and may submit written issues, comments, and documents.  Such appeal will be promptly considered by the Administrative Committee.
 
 
24
 
 
 
If a Participant or Beneficiary believes he is entitled to have received benefits but has not received them, the Participant or Beneficiary must accept any payment made under the Plan and make prompt and reasonable, good faith efforts to collect the remaining portion of the payment, as determined under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(g).  For this purpose (and as determined under such regulation), efforts to collect the payment will be presumed not to be prompt, reasonable, good faith efforts, unless the Participant or Beneficiary provides notice to the Plan Administrator within 90 days of the latest date upon which the payment could have been timely made in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the regulations under Code Section 409A, and unless, if not paid, the Participant or Beneficiary takes further enforcement measures within 180 days after such latest date.
 
 
Notwithstanding the other provisions hereof, this Plan shall be construed and interpreted to comply with section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A") and if necessary, any provision shall be held null and void to the extent such provision (or part thereof) fails to comply with Section 409A or regulations thereunder.  However, in no event shall the Company, its officers, directors, employees, parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409 A of the Code, or as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy any other applicable requirements for the deferral of tax.
 
 
The Plan Administrator may make payment on any day later than the date specified in the Plan as a result of administrative delay to the extent that such payment is treated as being paid on the date specified in the Plan under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), which generally permits payment to be made later within the same calendar year, or, if later, within 2-1/2 months following the date specified in the Plan, provided that the Participant is not permitted to designate the taxable year of payment.
 
 
25
 
 
ROHM AND HAAS COMPANY
 
 
:  EARLY RETIREMENT REDUCTION FACTORS Months
TABLE ONE
 
 
:  ACTUARIAL REDUCTION FACTORS
TABLE TWO
 
 
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
:  INVOLUNTARY EARLY RETIREMENT DATE REDUCTION FACTORS FOR LEGACY MORTON PLAN PARTICIPANTS
TABLE THREE
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
28
 
 
Actuarial equivalence under the Plan is determined using the factors used for calculating actuarial equivalence under the Standard portion of the Pension Plan.  The current factors are as set forth below.  Any changes to the applicable factors under the Pension Plan shall automatically apply to this Plan and this Appendix B shall be updated accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 
However, the amount of any lump sum payment paid after December 30, 2008, shall not be less than the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment, determined as of the payment date, of the single life annuity payable on the last day of month coincident with or next following attainment of age 65 of the benefits the Participant accrued under the Plan as of December 30, 2008, determined using the following assumptions:
 
 
29
 
 
 
This Rider No. 1 preserves certain provisions of the Rohm and Haas Non-Qualified Pension Plan as in effect on April 1, 2001 for Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participants.  The provisions of this Rider No. 1 apply only to Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participants and supersede any conflicting provisions of the Standard portion of the Plan.  All capitalized terms used herein, which are not otherwise defined below, shall have the meaning given to them under Article II of the Standard portion of the Plan.
 
 
 
The following words and phrases as used herein have the following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an Employee's base salary is paid in a currency other than United States dollars, conversion to United States dollars, for purposes of the Plan, shall be effected by means of determining the arithmetic average of such conversion rates used for accounting purposes by and in effect at the Company's headquarters in the United States during the 36 consecutive month period ending with the month as of which his benefits are determined.
 
For purposes of this Plan, a Participant's Earnings Rate shall be calculated without reference to the limitations of Section 401 (a)(17) of the Code.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All Legacy Rohm and Haas Plan Participants who were participants in the Rohm and Haas Non-Qualified Pension Plan as of January 1, 2005 shall be subject to the provisions of this Rider No. 1.
 
 
A Participant's Benefit Service shall be his Benefit Service as determined under Rider No. 1 of the Retirement Plan.
 
 
31
 
 
 
Except as provided in Article VII of this Rider, a Participant's Basic Amount of Normal Retirement Pension as of any Determination Date on or after the Participant's attainment of age 65 shall be one-twelfth of (the greater of :
A
1
or A
2
-B) x C
 
equals the lesser of:
A
1
 
(i)           50% of the sum of the Participant's Final Average Compensation and Award Program Adjustment; or
 
(ii)           2% of the sum of the Participant's Final Average Compensation and Award Program Adjustment, minus 0.35% of the Participant's Covered Compensation; multiplied by the number of completed years and any fractional parts thereof of Benefit Service; or
 
equals 1.5% of the sum of the Participant's Final Average Compensation and Award Program Adjustment, minus 0.35% of the Participant's Covered Compensation; multiplied by the number of completed years and any fractional parts thereof of Benefit Service up to a maximum of 44 years.
A
2
 
equals the Basic Amount of Normal Retirement Pension Benefits to which the Participant is entitled from the Pension Plan; and
B
 
equals the percentage (not to exceed 1.0) determined by dividing the number of months in the 10 year period preceding the Determination Date that the Participant was a level 14 or greater by 60.
C
 
 
 
 
 
 
equals 1.5% of the sum of the Participant's Final Average Compensation and his Award Program Adjustment, minus 0.35% of the Participant's Covered Compensation; multiplied by the number of completed years and any fractional parts thereof of Benefit Service up to a maximum of 44 years.  This amount shall be calculated without application of Section 415 or Section 401 (a)(l7) of the Code;
A
 
equals the Basic Amount of Normal Retirement Pension Benefits to which the Participant is entitled from the Pension Plan; and
B
 
equals the percentage (not to exceed 1.0) determined by dividing the number of months in the 10 year period preceding the Determination Date that the Participant was a level 14 or greater by 60.
C
 
 
 
32
 
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to any other Participant, the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Executive Committee") shall have the sole and absolute discretion to provide the benefits described in this Section 5.2.3.2.  The Executive Committee may base its determinations under this Section 5.2.3.2 on any factors it deems relevant and shall not be bound, or have its discretion in any way limited or restricted, by past determinations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant shall vest in his percentage of his Basic Amount of Normal or Early Retirement Pension in accordance with this Article VII.  A Participant shall be 100% vested in his Basic Amount of Normal or Early Retirement Pension when he is credited with 60 months of Benefit Service.
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
Benefits payable under this Rider No. 1 shall be paid as provided in Article VII of the Standard portion of the Plan, except as provide in this Article VIII.
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35
 
 
Actuarial equivalence under the Plan is determined using the factors used for calculating actuarial equivalence under Rider 1 of the Pension Plan.  The current factors are as set forth below.  Any changes to the applicable factors under the Pension Plan shall automatically apply to this Plan and this Appendix 1B shall be updated accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 
However, the amount of any lump sum payment paid after December 30, 2008, shall not be less than the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment, determined as of the payment date, of the single life annuity payable on the last day of month coincident with or next following attainment of age 65 of the benefits the Participant accrued under the Plan as of December 30, 2008, determined using the following assumptions:
 
 
36
 
 
This Rider No. 2 preserves certain provisions of the Morton International, Inc.  Excess Pension Plan as in effect on January 1, 2001 for Legacy Morton Plan Participants.  The provisions of this Rider No. 2 apply only to Legacy Morton Plan Participants and supersede any conflicting provisions of the Standard portion of the Plan.  All capitalized terms used herein, which are not otherwise defined below, shall have the meaning given to them under Article II of the Standard portion of the Plan.
 
 
All (i) Legacy Morton Plan Participants who were participants in the Morton International, Inc.  Excess Pension Plan as of January 1, 2005, and (ii) Eligible Employees who are Legacy Morton Plan Participants and who meet the requirements of Article III of the Standard shall be subject to the provisions of this Rider No. 2.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant shall become vested in the benefit payable under Article II at the same time that he becomes vested under the Retirement Plan (and where applicable, Rider 2 thereof).
 
 
No death benefit shall be paid under this Rider except as provided in this Article V.  A death benefit shall be payable to a surviving spouse or other designated Beneficiary of the Participant if a death benefit is payable to such person under the Retirement Plan (and where applicable, Rider 2 thereof).  Such death benefit shall be computed using the same factors and assumptions used to compute the applicable death benefit under the Retirement Plan (and where applicable, Rider 2 thereof).  Such death benefit shall be paid at the time and in the form provided under Article VII of the Standard portion of the Plan.
 
 
38
 

 
 
 
 
 
Copies of this SPD can be found on the Dow Intranet at My HR Connection or by requesting a copy from the Human Resources (HR) Service Center, Employee Development Center, Midland, MI 48674, telephone 1-877-623-8079 or 1-989-638-8757.  Summaries of modifications may alsobe published from time to time in Dows Newsline publication or by separate letter.
 
This booklet is the Summary Plan Description (SPD) for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan).  It is also the SPD for The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Programs Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan (Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan) and Dependent Life Insurance Plan (Dependent Life Insurance Plan).  These plans are collectively referred to in this SPD as Plans.  Individually, each plan may be referred to as Plan, in its respective Chapter of this SPD.  References to Dow refer collectively to The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates authorized to participate in the Plans.  The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program are collectively referred to as the Programs.
 
Chapter One applies to the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  The Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is part of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507).  It provides group term life insurance coverage underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).  The premium is paid by Dow.  It provides automatic coverage for eligible Employees.
 
Chapter Two applies to the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid Life Insurance and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515).  It provides group term life insurance coverage underwritten by MetLife.  You must enroll and pay the premiums for this coverage to receive it.
 
Chapter Three applies to the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515).  It provides group term life insurance coverage underwritten by MetLife.  You must enroll and pay the premiums for this coverage to receive it.
 
Words that are capitalized are either defined in this SPD or the applicable Plan Document. The applicable Plan Document for the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program Plan Document.  The applicable Plan Document for the Employee-Paid Life Insurance and Dependent Life Insurance Plans is The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid Life Insurance and Dependent Life Insurance Program Plan Document.  The Plan Documents are available by requesting from the applicable Plan Administrator listed in thesection of this SPD.  In case of conflict between this SPD and the applicable Plan Document, the Plan Document will govern.
ERISA Information
 
39
 
 
References to Participating Employer refer to The Dow Chemical Company or any other corporation or business entity The Dow Chemical Company authorizes to participate in the Plans with respect to its Employees.  The terms Dow and Participating Employers have the same meaning, and may be used interchangeably in this SPD.   The term Employee means a person who:
 
 
The definition of Employee does not include an individual who performs services for the benefit of a Participating Employer if his compensation is paid by an entity or source other than the Companys U.S. Payroll Department or another Participating Employers U.S. payroll Department.  Further, the definition of Employee does not include any individual who is characterized by the Participating Employer as an independent contractor, contingent worker, consultant, contractor, or similar term.  These individuals are not Employees (with a capital E) for purposes of the Plan even if such an individual is determined by a court or regulatory agency to be a common law employee of a Participating Employer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
40
 
 
Plan Description
Except for Michigan Operations Hourly Employees who were not Actively at Work on January 1, 2008, the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan provides coverage of one times (1X) your base annual salary rounded up to the next $1,000 for Salaried Employees and Hourly Employees whose collective bargaining unit has agreed to this plan.  Michigan Operations Hourly Employees who were not Actively at Work on January 1, 2008 but continue to be on the payroll (for example due to a paid medical leave of absence) and were covered at 1/2X prior to January 1, 2008, may continue 1/2X coverage as long as they continue to be on the payroll.  If they return to work, their coverage will increase to 1X when they are Actively at Work.   MetLife is the named fiduciary for making decisions as to whether a Claim for Benefits is payable.
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans have been merged into the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan: The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Michigan Hourly Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan; The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Hampshire Hourly Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan; and The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs ANGUS Hourly Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.
The Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter One as the Plan.
Eligibility
 
Salaried Employees
 
Salaried Employees of a Participating Employer with regular, active, Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time status are eligible and are automatically covered under this Plan, except as follows:
1
 
 
 
 
Hourly Employees
 
Eligibility of Hourly Employees depends on whether the applicable collective bargaining unit and the Participating Employer have agreed to this Plan.   With respect to a collective bargaining agreement that specifically addresses which Employees are eligible or not eligible for this Plan, the terms of such collective bargaining agreement shall govern.   If the terms of the collective bargaining agreement specify that Hourly Employees shall be provided this Plan, but does not specifically address the category of Employees that are eligible or not eligible, then the Plan will provide eligibility to regular, active Employees with Full Time status who are members of the collective bargaining unit.
 
1
 
If you were enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan on September 30, 2002, and you signed a waiver of all your rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between you and The Dow Chemical Company, you are eligible until you no longer have active Employee status, or until you elect to waive coverage.  In addition, if you were enrolled in the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan (UCC Executive Life) on October 31, 2002, and had active Employee status on the date that your Agreement and Collateral Assignment between you and Union Carbide Corporation were terminated, you are eligible until you no longer have active Employee status, or until you elect to waive coverage.   Once coverage is waived, you will not be allowed to re-enroll in the future.  In the BenefitConnect benefits enrollment system, the coverage described in this footnote is referred to as Executive Life Insurance or Exec Life.
 
41
 
 
Employees on a Leave of Absence
 
Eligibility for benefits under the Plan may continue during certain leaves of absences approved by the Participating Employer such as under the Companys Family Leave Policy or Medical Leave Policy.   The benefits under the Plan shall be administered consistent with the terms of such approved leaves of absences.
 
 
Disabled Employees
If you are being paid a benefit from The Dow Chemical Company Long Term Disability Income Protection Plan (LTD), The Dow Chemical Company Michigan Hourly Contract Disability Plan, The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Total and Permanent Disability Plan, or the Dow AgroSciences Long Term Disability Insurance Plan you may be eligible under the Plan. See the section of this SPD.
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program.  See the section of this SPD.
2
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
If you have been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program, or if you have been approved for Disability Retirement under the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan for Collectively-Bargained Employees or under Article G of Rider No. 2 of the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan, you are eligible for life insurance coverage until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program, or until you no longer qualify for Disability Retirement under the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan for Collectively-Bargained Employees or under Article G of Rider No. 2 of the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan.  See the section of this SPD.
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
 
 
Eligibility
Determinations
The Initial Claims Reviewer determines eligibility.  The Initial Claims Reviewer is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan, or have been told that you are not, see the Claims Procedures Appendix of this SPD.
 
Enrollment
 
Completing an enrollment form is necessary only to name your beneficiary.  You may waive coverage.  If you want to waive coverage, you must provide written notification to the U.S. Benefits Center.  
If you waive coverage, you waive coverage permanently.  You may not re-enroll in this Plan at any time in the future.
 
Employee Contribution
 
Dow provides Company-Paid Life Insurance at no cost to you.
 
 
Amount of Coverage.
 
Maximum Coverage
 
The maximum amount of coverage available is $1.5 million.
3
 
2
If you are Morton Salt Employee and you were approved for a Short-Term Disability benefit under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan prior to October 1, 2009, this paragraph does not apply to you.  You are not eligible for
coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical
Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program. Note that Morton Salt was no longer a part of Dows controlled group as of October 1, 2009.
 
3
This maximum is waived if you are an Employee who was enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan on September 30, 2002, and you signed a waiver of all your rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between you and The Dow Chemical Company.  This maximum is also waived if you were enrolled in the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan on October 31, 2002, and you were an active Employee on the date that your Agreement and Collateral Assignment between you and Union Carbide Corporation were terminated.
 
42
 
 
Salaried Employees and Hourly Employees Whose Collective Bargaining Unit Has Agreed to this Plan
Except for Michigan Operations Hourly Employees who were not Actively at Work on January 1, 2008, the Plan provides coverage of one times (1X) your base annual salary rounded up to the next $1,000 for Salaried Employees and Hourly Employees whose collective bargaining unit has agreed to this plan.
Michigan Operations Hourly Employees who were not Actively at Work on January 1, 2008 but continue to be on the payroll (for example due to a paid medical leave of absence) and were covered at 1/2X prior to January 1, 2008, may continue 1/2X coverage as long as they continue to be on the payroll.  If they return to work, their coverage will increase to 1X when they are Actively at Work.
Your coverage automatically is adjusted as your base salary changes, provided you are Actively at Work.  If you are Less-Than-Full-Time, your 1X coverage is based on your Full-Time base annual salary, and coverage is automatically adjusted as your base salary changes.  Whether you are Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time, if you are not Actively at Work, any increase to your life insurance will not be effective until you return to work.
 
Union Carbide Employees
 
If you are a Union Carbide employee, your benefit will be determined using your annual pay at Union Carbide as of December 31, 2001, as determined under the provisions of the Union Carbide Basic Life Insurance Plan until your annual base salary calculated under the normal provisions of the Plan exceeds such amount.  At that time, the Plan will no longer retain the December 31, 2001 Union Carbide annual pay information and will look solely to the annual base salary calculated under the normal provisions of the Plan to determine the amount of your coverage.
 
 
Special Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
 
 
The Dow Chemical Company Long Term Disability Income Protection Plan (LTD)
Effective January 1, 2006, if your date of Full Disability (as defined under LTD) is on or after January 1, 2006, you are eligible for coverage when your LTD benefit payments begin.  The following applies to you:
If you have less than ten (10) years of service under the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP) or the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan (UCEPP), you are eligible for up to either 12 months or 24 months of company paid life insurance coverage.  Coverage ends prior to the expiration of the 12 month or 24 month period if you no longer qualify for LTD status.  The 12 month period applies if you have less than one (1) year of service under DEPP or UCEPP.  The 24 month period applies if you have more than one (1) year of service, but less than ten (10) years of service under DEPP or UCEPP.   Currently, if you have ten (10) or more years of service you are eligible for coverage until you are no longer eligible to receive payments from LTD.
The amount of coverage is the same as the amount of coverage you had on the date you were last Actively at Work.  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
If your date of Full Disability (as defined under LTD) is prior to January 1, 2006, you are eligible for coverage when your LTD benefit payments begin
4
.  The following applies to you:
You are eligible for the same amount of coverage you had on the date you were last Actively at Work.  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.  Currently, coverage continues until you are no longer eligible to receive payments from LTD.
You are also eligible for an additional amount of coverage, which is determined by the amount of Employee-Paid Life coverage you were enrolled in as an active Employee immediately prior to being approved to receive LTD payments, but not to exceed 1X (For example, if you were enrolled for 6X as an active Employee, your coverage would be reduced to 1X).  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.  Currently, coverage continues until you are no longer eligible to receive payments from LTD.
 
4
This also applies to those who were disabled prior to January 1, 2006, and were approved to receive benefit payments for such disability under the Dow AgroSciences Long Term Disability Insurance Plan.
 
43
 
 
For salaried employees, base annual salary is used to calculate the life insurance amount.  For bargained-for employees, annual pay calculated using your base hourly rate is used.
 
Texas Total and Permanent Disability
 
If you were enrolled in the Texas Operations Hourly Total and Permanent Disability Plan (T&P Plan) and you were deemed to be totally and permanently disabled by the plan administrator of that plan, and it was determined that you are eligible to be in benefits pay status by the plan administrator of that plan, you are eligible for coverage under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan equal to the amount of coverage you were enrolled in under the Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Contributory Plan (Contributory Life) at the time you became totally and permanently disabled.  Coverage ends the earlier of: 1) you are determined to no longer be totally & permanently disabled by the plan administrator of the T&P Plan, or 2) you reach age 65.
 
 
Contract Disability Participants
 
If you have been determined to be totally and permanently disabled by the claims administrator of The Dow Chemical Company Michigan Hourly Contract Disability Plan (Contract Disability Plan), and are receiving benefit payments from that plan, the same coverage you had as an active Employee will continue until you are age 65.  Eligibility for coverage ends earlier if you no longer are eligible for benefit payments under the Contract Disability Plan.  If you were Actively at Work at age 65 or older and subsequently became approved for benefits by the Contract Disability plan administrator, your coverage will be determined by applying the appropriate percentage from the following table to your base annual hourly rate effective the day before you qualified to receive benefit payments under the Contract Disability Plan, with a minimum of $5,000.
 
 
 
                       
                               
                                
                               
                                
On and after your 70 birthday, the amount of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance benefits will be $5,000.  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
th
 
Rohm and Haas Company Disability Participants
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage at the same level of coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments  Such coverage continues at no cost to you until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Disability Program.  
5
If you have been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long-Term Disability Program, you are eligible for life insurance coverage at the same level of coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments, if your qualifying disability was incurred prior to January 1, 2010 and you continue to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Disability Program.  Such coverage continues at no cost to you until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments from that Program.  
If you have been approved for Disability Retirement under the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan for Collectively-Bargained Employees or under Article G of Rider No. 2 of the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan, you are eligible for life insurance coverage at the same level of coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for Disability Retirement.  Such coverage continues at no cost to you until you no longer qualify for Disability Retirement under the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan for Collectively-Bargained Employees or under Article G of Rider No. 2 of the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan.  
 
5
 
If you are  Morton Salt Employee and you were approved for a Short-Term Disability benefit under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan prior to October 1, 2009, this paragraph does not apply to you.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical
Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.
 
44
 
 
Effective Dates of Coverage
Your coverage begins on your first day of active employment as an Employee of a Participating Employer, unless you were a former participant of The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan or the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan as described above in the Eligibility section, in which case your coverage begins the first day of the month following the termination of your participation in such executive life insurance plan.
Beginning.
 
Ending.
Your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
      the date the Group Policy ends;
      the date you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan; or
      the date your employment ends.
Porting Coverage to a Term Life Policy
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because your employment ends and you are not eligible for Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance, your coverage may be continued on a direct bill basis with MetLife through the portability feature. This feature allows employees to continue their Group Term Life coverage under a separate group policy without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  Rates for this coverage are different from the active plan rates and the employee must port a minimum of $20,000 to exercise this option. You have 31 days from the date your coverage ends to apply for Portability. You may continue the same or lesser amount of coverage. If you are unable to continue your entire life insurance amount through Portability, you may apply for Conversion of the balance. Contact MetLife atif you have any questions or want to apply for Portability
1-866-492-6983
.
 
 
Converting to an Individual Policy
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage is reduced due to retirement, the amount of coverage you lost may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Company- Paid Life Insurance you lost under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because your employment ends, your coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Company-Paid Life Insurance in effect for you under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the date your employment ends.
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because Dow has cancelled the Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage under the MetLife group life insurance policy, or Dow has amended the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan to exclude coverage for your work group, you may convert your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy; provided you have been covered under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to losing coverage under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  The amount you may convert is limited to the lesser of:
      $2,000.
You must file a conversion application with MetLife within 31 days of the date your Dow coverage is lost or reduced.  Contact the Dow HR Service Center to obtain a form for converting your coverage.   Once you have obtained the form, contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877-275-6387 to file your form, or to obtain further information. You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than your group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce your cost.
 
45
 
Reporting Imputed Income
The Internal Revenue Code requires that the cost of Company-Paid Life Insurance in excess of $50,000 be reported as taxable income (imputed income).  This imputed income will be reported on your W-2 Form in addition to your other taxable income.  Former participants of The Dow Chemical Company Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan and the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan are not eligible for the $50,000 exclusion.
The cost of your Company-Paid Life Insurance in excess of $50,000 is based on a Uniform Premium Table established by the federal government.
If your Company Paid Life coverage is greater than $50,000, and you want to decrease the amount of coverage from 1X to $50,000, you may elect to do so by contacting the HR Service Center.  Once coverage is reduced, it may not be reinstated.
Naming Your Beneficiary
 
Effective March 1, 2008, as communicated by the Plan Administrator, MetLife became the record keeper for the Programs beneficiary records.  Beneficiary information must be registered with MetLife at , or by mailing the appropriate forms to the MetLife Recordkeeping Center.  Beneficiary information previously recorded at the Dow Benefits Center has not been transferred to MetLife.  If you fail to name a beneficiary, MetLife may determine the beneficiary to be one or more of the following who survive you:
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
If you fail to name a beneficiary, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.  Any payment made by MetLife in good faith will discharge the Plans and MetLifes liability to the extent of such payment.
If you wish to change your beneficiary designation, or you need to register for the first time, you can do so via the Internet at , or the Dow Intranet at My HR Connection.  If you prefer, you can request forms by calling MetLife Customer Service toll-free at (866) 492-6983, Monday  Friday, 8:00 am  11:00 pm (ET).
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
Benefit Payments
 
In the event of your death, your beneficiary should contact the HR Service Center. The beneficiary on record must complete and sign a claim form to receive benefits, and a certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds. To file a Claim for a Plan Benefit, see Claims Procedures Appendix of this SPD.
Payment Options.
 
Funding
 
Dow pays the entire premium for the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  MetLife pays the benefits under an insurance policy.  MetLife may combine the experience for the policy with other policies held by Dow.  This means that the costs of these coverages may be determined on a combined basis, and the costs accumulated from year to year.  Favorable experience under one or more coverages in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience on other coverages in the same year or offset unfavorable experience of coverages in prior years.  Policy dividends declared by MetLife for the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan are used to reduce Dows cost for the coverage in the same and prior years.
Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO)
 
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if you have been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80% of your Company-Paid Life Insurance and Employee-Paid Life Insurance benefits before death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life insurance proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, you must be covered for at least $10,000 from your Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000 and maximum $500,000) of your Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by
 
46
 
 
the amount of accelerated benefit paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  If the accelerated benefits qualify for such favorable tax treatment, the benefits will be excludable from your income and not subject to federal taxation.  Payment of the accelerated benefit will be subject to state taxes and regulations.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your employment status changes in the future, and your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerated Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the HR Service Center at 1-877-623-8079 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
Your Rights
 
You have certain rights under the Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the , section, section, section, , section, section, section, section, section, section, and section at the end of this SPD.
Filing a Claim section
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights section
ERISA Enforcement
Welfare Benefits
The
Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
 
47
 
Plan Description
 
Under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan, you may select the amount of your coverage in multiples of one-half times (1/2X) your base annual salary up eight times (8X) your base annual pay.  The Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan is a group term life insurance plan.  The benefits are insured by a group term life insurance policy underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).  MetLife pays the benefits under the Plan.  In addition, MetLife is the named fiduciary for making decisions as to whether a Claim for Benefits is payable.
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans have been merged into the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan:  Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan; ANGUS Chemical Company Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  As of January 1, 2008, the Michigan Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan has been merged into the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan. The Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter Two as the Plan.
Eligibility
 
Salaried Employees
 
Salaried Employees of a Participating Employer with regular, active, Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time status are eligible.
 
Hourly Employees
 
Eligibility of Hourly Employees depends on whether the applicable collective bargaining unit and the Participating Employer have agreed to this Plan.   With respect to a collective bargaining agreement that specifically addresses which Employees are eligible or not eligible for this Plan, the terms of such collective bargaining agreement shall govern.   If the terms of the collective bargaining agreement specify that Hourly Employees shall be provided this Plan, but does not specifically address the category of Employees that are eligible or not eligible, then the Plan will provide eligibility to regular, active Employees with Full Time status who are members of the collective bargaining unit.
 
Employees on a Leave of Absence
 
Eligibility for benefits under the Plan may continue during certain leaves of absences approved by the Participating Employer such as under the Companys Family Leave Policy or Medical Leave Policy.   The benefits under the Plan shall be administered consistent with the terms of such approved leaves of absences.
 
Disabled Employees
 
If you are being paid a benefit from The Dow Chemical Company Long Term Disability Income Protection Plan (LTD) or the Dow AgroSciences Long Term Disability Insurance Plan you may be eligible under the Plan. See the section of this SPD.
Special Employee Paid Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program, you are eligible for the same amount of supplemental or employee-paid coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments, until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.  See the section of this SPD.
6
Special Employee Paid Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program, you are eligible for the same amount of supplemental or
 
6
 
If you are a Morton Salt Employee and you were approved for a Short-Term Disability benefit under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan prior to October 1, 2009, this paragraph does not apply to you.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical
Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.
 
48
 
 
employee-paid coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments, until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long Term Disability Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.  See the section of this SPD.
Special Employee Paid Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
 
Eligibility
Determinations
 
The applicable Claims Administrator determines eligibility.  The Claims Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan, or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Enrollment
 
To obtain Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage, enroll during open enrollment or complete an enrollment form, available from the HR Service Center or the Dow Intranet. You may enroll:
Failure to provide the prerequisite proofs will result in cancellation of coverage, including retroactive cancellation, and may require you to reimburse the Plan for any benefits paid by the Plan.  The Plan Administrator may request proof of your age at any time.
 
7
If you are employed by Rohm and Haas Company or one of its subsidiaries that is a Participating Employer, for open enrollment for the 2010 Plan Year, you may enroll in the amount of coverage you had under the Rohm and Haas Supplemental Life Insurance Program as of December 31, 2009 without providing a statement of health.  If you were enrolled in the Rohm and Haas Supplemental Life Insurance Program for less than 3X your annual salary, or you were not enrolled in that plan at all, for open enrollment for the 2010 Plan Year only, you may enroll for up to 3X base annual salary without a statement of health.  If you were enrolled in the Rohm and Haas Plan for 3X or more, you may increase your coverage by  X during open enrollment without providing a statement of health.  If you want to increase by more than  X, then you must provide a statement of health that is approved by MetLife.
 
49
 
 
Change-in-Status
 
A change in status is an event listed in one of the bullets below:
 
Employee Contribution
 
Your contribution, made through post tax payroll deductions, is based on your annual base salary.  In addition, your contribution is based on your age and whether you are a non-tobacco-user.  As your age and salary change, your deductions will be automatically adjusted.  You are considered a non tobacco-user by the Plan if you have not used a tobacco product in the last 12 months.  If you quit using tobacco, you are considered a non-tobacco-user as of the first day of the month after you complete 12 non-tobacco-using months.  If you are a tobacco user, you are considered a tobacco user as of the first day you use tobacco.  Administratively, you will not be adjusted to tobacco user deductions until the first of the month following the tobacco use.   A false or out of date statement regarding tobacco use may result in benefits not being paid.
Current rates are listed in your open enrollment brochure.  These costs are reviewed and revised periodically.
If you are on a leave of absence approved by the Participating Employer that provides eligibility under this Plan, the Plan Administrator has the full discretion to make special administrative arrangements as are necessary, such as deferring Employee contributions on a temporary basis during the leave of absence, and requiring the Employee to repay premiums when the Employee returns to work, or any other arrangements the Plan Administrator deems appropriate.
If the last payroll period for a Plan Year occurs partly during a current Plan Year and partly during the next Plan Year, the Plan Administrator has the full and complete discretion to modify the Participant contributions in any way that the Plan Administrator deems administratively efficient, including modifying the Participant contributions for the last payroll period without the Participants consent.
Amount of Coverage
Salaried Employees and Hourly Employees of Applicable Collective Bargaining Groups (Not applicable to Long Term Disability Participants)
You may purchase coverage in increments equal to one-half times (1/2X) your annual base salary, rounded up to the next $1,000.  The maximum coverage allowable is equal to eight times (8X) your annual salary up to a $1.5 million limit.  If you are Less-Than-Full-Time, your coverage is based on your Full-Time base annual salary.  Your coverage automatically is adjusted as your base salary changes, provided you are Actively at Work ,  Whether you are Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time, if you are not Actively at Work, any increase to your life insurance will not be effective until you return to work.  If you are a Union Carbide employee, your benefit will be determined using your annual pay at Union Carbide as of December 31, 2001, as determined under the provisions of the Union Carbide Basic Life Insurance Plan until your annual base salary calculated under the normal provisions of the Plan exceed such amount.  At that time, the Plan will no longer retain the December 31, 2001, Union Carbide annual pay information and will look solely to the annual base salary calculated under the normal provisions of the Plan to determine the amount of your coverage.
8
 
8
You are eligible for an additional 1x of coverage over and above the 8x or $1.5 million maximum if  (1) you are an Employee who was enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan on September 30, 2002, and you signed a waiver of all your rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between you and The Dow Chemical Company who elected to purchase the additional 1x coverage effective October 1, 2003, or (2) you are an Employee who was enrolled in the Union Carbide Corporation Executive Life Insurance Plan on October 31, 2002, and you were an active Employee on the date your Agreement and Collateral Assignment between you and Union Carbide Corporation were terminated and you elected to purchase the additional 1x coverage effective November 1, 2003.  If you waive the additional 1x coverage, you are not eligible to enroll for such coverage in the future.  Further, you are no longer eligible for any coverage under the Plan when you no longer have active Employee status.
 
50
 
 
Special Employee Paid Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
You may be eligible for coverage if you are being paid benefits from The Dow Chemical Company Long Term Disability Income Protection Plan (LTD) under the following circumstances:
If the date of your Full Disability is on or after January 1, 2006 the following applies to you:
If you have less than ten (10) years of service under DEPP or UCEPP, you are eligible for up to either 12 months or 24 months of Employee-Paid life insurance coverage beginning on the effective date of your approval for LTD status.  Coverage ends prior to the expiration of the 12 month or 24 month period if you no longer qualify for LTD status.  The 12 month period applies if you have less than one (1) year of service under DEPP or UCEPP.  The 24 month period applies if you have more than one (1) year of service, but less than ten (10) years of service under DEPP or UCEPP.   If you have ten (10) or more years of service under DEPP or UCEPP, you are eligible for coverage.  Currently, eligibility for coverage ends if you are no longer eligible to receive payments from LTD.
The amount of coverage will depend on the amount of coverage you had on the date you were last Actively at Work.  If you had X, then the coverage amount is  X.  If you had 1X or more, then the amount is limited to 1X.  You will be required to pay the same premiums active employees pay.
Rohm and Haas Company Disability Participants
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program, you are eligible for the same amount of supplemental or employee-paid coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments, until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.
9
If you have been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long-Term Disability Program, you are eligible for the same amount of supplemental or employee-paid life insurance coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments, if your qualifying disability was incurred prior to January 1, 2010 and you continue to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Disability Program.  Such coverage continues until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments from that Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.
If you have been approved for Disability Retirement under the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan for Collectively-Bargained Employees or under Article G of Rider No. 2 of the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan, you are eligible for the same amount of supplemental or employee-paid coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for Disability Retirement.  Such coverage continues until you no longer qualify for Disability Retirement under the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan for Collectively-Bargained Employees or under Article G of Rider No. 2 of the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.
Increasing or Decreasing Coverage
 
You may increase the amount of your coverage (but not above the maximum amount you are eligible for):
 
9
 
If you are a Morton Salt Employee and you were approved for a Short-Term Disability benefit under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan prior to October 1, 2009, this paragraph does not apply to you.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical
Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.
 
51
 
You may decrease the amount of your coverage any time by completing an enrollment form, available from the HR Service Center or the Dow Intranet.
Effective Dates of Coverage
Your coverage generally begins on your date of enrollment and when you meet the enrollment requirements outlined in this booklet.  Your coverage automatically is adjusted as your base salary changes.  If you are not Actively at Work, any increase to your life insurance will not be effective until you return to work.
Beginning
.
 
Your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
Ending.  
The date the Group Policy ends;
The date you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan;
The end of the period for which your last premium has been paid; or
The date your employment ends.
Porting Coverage to a Term Life Policy
If your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because your employment ends, your coverage may be continued on a direct bill basis with MetLife through the portability feature. This feature allows employees to continue their Group Term Life coverage under a separate group policy without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  Rates for this coverage are different from the active plan rates and the employee must port a minimum of $20,000 to exercise this option. You have 31 days from the date your coverage ends to apply for Portability. You may continue the same or lesser amount of coverage. If you are unable to continue your entire life insurance amount through Portability, you may apply for Conversion of the balance. Contact MetLife atif you have any questions or want to apply for Portability
1-866-492-6983
.
Converting to an Individual Policy
If your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage is reduced due to retirement, the amount of coverage you lost may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Employee-Paid Life Insurance you lost under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.
If your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because your employment ends, your coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Employee-Paid Life Insurance in effect for you under the Employee -Paid Life Insurance Plan on the date your employment ends.
If your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because Dow has cancelled the Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage under the MetLife group life insurance policy, or Dow has amended the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan to exclude coverage for your work group, you may convert your Employee-Paid Life Insurance coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy; provided you have been covered under  the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to losing coverage under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  The amount you may convert is limited to the lesser of:
You must file a conversion application with MetLife within 31 days of the date your Dow coverage is lost or reduces.  Contact the Dow HR Service Center to obtain a form for converting your coverage.   Once you have obtained the form, contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877-275-6387 to file your form, or to obtain further information.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
 
52
 
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than your group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce your cost.
Naming Your Beneficiary
 
Effective March 1, 2008, as communicated by the Plan Administrator, MetLife became the record keeper for the Programs beneficiary records.  Beneficiary information must be registered with MetLife at , or by
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
mailing the appropriate forms to the MetLife Recordkeeping Center.  Beneficiary information previously recorded at the Dow Benefits Center has not been transferred to MetLife.
If you do not designate a beneficiary, then the default beneficiary will be the same as the beneficiary on your Company-Paid Life Insurance.  If you are not eligible for Company-Paid Life Insurance, and you are enrolled in Post-65 Executive Life, then the default beneficiary is the same as your beneficiary for Post-65 Executive Life.
If you fail to name a beneficiary, MetLife may determine the beneficiary to be one or more of the following who survive you:
If you fail to name a beneficiary, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.  Any payment made by MetLife in good faith will discharge the Plans and MetLifes liability to the extent of such payment.
If you wish to change your beneficiary designation, or you need to register for the first time, you can do so via the Internet at , or the Dow Intranet at My HR Connection.  If you prefer, you can request forms by calling MetLife Customer Service toll-free at (866) 492-6983, Monday  Friday, 8:00 am  11:00 pm (ET).
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
Benefit Payments
In the event of your death, your beneficiary should contact the HR Service Center.  A death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds.  To file a Claim for a Plan Benefit, of this SPD.
Payment Options
.  
certified
see
Claims Procedures Appendix
Funding
 
Employees pay the entire premium for coverage.  The benefits under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan are not combined for experience with the other insurance coverages.  Favorable experience under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience in prior years. It is not anticipated that there will be any dividends declared for the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan based on the manner in which the insurer has determined the premium rates.
Joint Insurance Arrangement
Dorinco Reinsurance Company (Dorinco) and MetLife have entered into an arrangement that is allowed by the U.S. Department of Labor pursuant to Prohibited Transaction Exemption 96-62 and 29 CFR Part 2570, subpart B. [DOL Final Authorization Number 2001-17E (May 14, 2001)].  Under this arrangement, MetLife has or will write the coverage for the Plan and Dorinco will assume a percentage of the risk.  Under the insurance arrangement between MetLife and Dorinco, MetLife and Dorinco will each be liable to pay the agreed upon percentage of each death benefit claim in respect of a Plan Participant.  When a claim for benefits is approved, Dorinco will transfer its percentage of each death benefit claim to MetLife.  MetLife will then pay the full amount of the claim.  If MetLife is financially unable to pay the portion of the claim, Dorinco will be obligated to pay the full amount of the claim directly.  Similarly, if Dorinco is financially unable to pay its designated percentage of a particular claim, MetLife will be obligated to pay the entire amount of the claim.  Neither MetLife nor Dorinco will charge the Plan any administrative fees, commissions or other consideration as a result of the participation of Dorinco.
 
53
 
Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO)
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if you have been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80% of your Company-Paid Life Insurance and Employee-Paid Life Insurance benefits  before death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life insurance proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, you must be covered for at least $10,000 from your Company
Paid Life Insurance and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000 and maximum $500,000) of your Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of accelerated benefit paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  If the accelerated benefits qualify for such favorable tax treatment, the benefits will be excludable from your income and not subject to federal taxation. Payment of the accelerated benefit will be subject to state taxes and regulations.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your employment status changes in the future, and your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerated Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the HR Service Center at 1-877-623-8079 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
Will Preparation Service
     If you elect Employee Paid Life Insurance coverage, you are eligible for a will preparation service available through Hyatt Legal Services, a MetLife affiliate.  This service is available to you while your Employee Paid Life Insurance coverage is in effect. The will preparation service is offered at no cost to you.  You may use an attorney designated by Hyatt Legal Services, or you may use a different attorney. If
 
you have a will prepared by an attorney not designated by Hyatt Legal Services, you must pay for the attorneys
 
services directly.  You may receive a partial reimbursement for the amount you paid to the attorney if you provide proof of will service and payment satisfactory to Hyatt Legal Services.  The amount reimbursable is the amount customarily
 
reimbursed for such services by Hyatt Legal Services.  Call the HR Service Center for more information.
Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, and section at the end of this SPD.
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
ERISA Enforcement
Welfare Benefits
The
Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
 
54
 
Plan Description
 
The Dependent Life Insurance Plan provides coverage for your eligible family members at group rates.   The benefits are insured by a group term life insurance policy underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).  MetLife pays the benefits under the Plan.  In addition, MetLife is the named fiduciary for making decisions as to whether a Claim for Benefits is payable.
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans have been merged into the Dependent Life Insurance Plan:  Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Dependent Life Insurance Plan; ANGUS Chemical Company Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Dependent Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  As of January 1, 2008, the Michigan Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Dependent Life Insurance Plan has been merged into the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.
The Dependent Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter Three as the Plan.
Eligibility
 
Salaried Employees:
 
Salaried Employees of a Participating Employer with regular, active, Full-Time or Less-Than-Full-Time status are eligible.
 
Bargained-for Employees:
 
Eligibility of Bargained-for Employees depends on whether the applicable collective bargaining unit and the Participating Employer have agreed to this Plan.   With respect to a collective bargaining agreement that specifically addresses which Employees are eligible or not eligible for this Plan, the terms of such collective bargaining agreement shall govern.   If the terms of the collective bargaining agreement specify that Bargained for Employees shall be provided this Plan, but does not specifically address the category of Employees that are eligible or not eligible, then the Plan will provide eligibility to regular active Employees with Full Time status who are members of the collective bargaining group.
 
Employees on a Leave of Absence:
 
Eligibility for benefits under the Plan may continue during certain laves of absences approved by the Participating Employer such as under the Companys Family Leave Policy or Medical Leave Policy.   The benefits under the Plan shall be administered consistent with the terms of such approved leaves of absences.
 
Eligibility
Determinations:
 
The applicable Claims Administrator determines eligibility.  The Claims Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.    If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan, or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Run-out claims under ERISA Plan #505 (which was terminated effective 12-31-99) for covered claims that were incurred but not yet paid under that plan, will be paid from this Plan.
Dependent Eligibility
You may purchase coverage on the life of your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record and/or the life of your Dependent child or Dependent children.
Child means your natural child, adopted child or stepchild who is:
 
55
 
 
The Plan defines a Full-Time Student as a student who is a full-time student at an educational institution at any time during the Plan Year.  The determination as to whether a student is full-time is based upon the number of hours or courses which is considered to be full-time by the educational institution.  If a child is age 19 to 25, and loses Full-Time Student status solely because the student has an illness or injury that requires the student to take a medically necessary leave of absence from school, the child is deemed by the Plan to continue to be a Full-Time Student until the earlier of age 25 or the end of the medically necessary leave of absence.
Generally, a child is NOT a Dependent if he or she is:
A Dependent Spouse, Domestic Partner, or child is not eligible if he or she resides outside the United States and Canada, or is in the military.
Enrollment
To enroll for Dependent Life Insurance coverage, enroll through the open enrollment period or complete an enrollment form, available from the Intranet or the HR Service Center as described below.  You may enroll:
 
The Plan Administrator may request proof of Dependent eligibility and proof of age at any time.  Proof may consist of a birth certificate, passport, adoption papers, marriage license, statement of Domestic Partnership or any other proof that the Plan Administrator deems appropriate.  Failure to provide proof of Dependent eligibility and proof of age within the time period required will result in no Dependent coverage.
 
56
 
 
If you enrolled for coverage for your Dependent(s) and fail to provide proof of Dependent eligibility or proof of age satisfactory to the Plan Administrator within the time period required, and the Plan determines that your Dependent(s) is or are not covered, the Plan reserves the right not to refund the premiums you paid, and to cancel coverage of your Dependent(s) retroactive to the date you enrolled your Dependent(s).
Change-in-Status
 
A change in status is an event listed in one of the bullets below:
Amount of Coverage
Salaried Employees and Collective Bargaining Groups that Agreed to this Plan
You may select coverage for your Spouse/Domestic Partner and Dependent children based on the following options.
LTD participants are not eligible for Spouse/Domestic Partner and Dependent Life Coverage.
 
Special Employee Paid Coverage for Certain Disabled Persons
 
 
If you are a Rohm and Haas Company Employee who has been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program, you are eligible for the same amount of dependent insurance coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Short Term Disability Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.
10
If you have been approved for disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Long-Term Disability Program, you are eligible for the same amount of dependent life insurance coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for disability payments, if your qualifying disability was incurred prior to January 1, 2010 and you continue to receive disability payments under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plans Disability Program.  Such coverage continues until you are no longer eligible to receive disability payments from that Program.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.
If you have been approved for Disability Retirement under the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan for Collectively-Bargained Employees or under Article G of Rider No. 2 of the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan, you are eligible for the same amount of dependent life insurance coverage you had immediately prior to your approval for Disability Retirement.  Such coverage continues until you no longer qualify for Disability Retirement under the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan for Collectively-Bargained Employees or under Article G of Rider No. 2 of the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan.  You must continue making any required contributions in order to keep your coverage in effect.  
 
10
If you are a Morton Salt Employee and you were approved for a Short-Term Disability benefit under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan prior to October 1, 2009, this paragraph does not apply to you.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program and The Dow Chemical Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.
 
57
 
 
Increasing or Decreasing Coverage
You may increase the amount of coverage (but not above the maximum amount you are eligible for):
You may decrease the amount of your coverage at any time by completing an enrollment card, available from the Dow Intranet or the HR Service Center.
Effective Dates of Coverage
Your coverage generally begins on your date of enrollment and when you meet the enrollment requirements outlined in this booklet.
Beginning.
 
Ending
Your Dependent Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
The date the Group Policy ends;
The date you or your Dependent no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan;
The end of the period for which your last premium has been paid;
The date your employment ends.
Porting Coverage to a Term Life Policy
If Dependent Life coverage ends because your employment ends, your coverage may be continued on a direct bill basis with MetLife through the portability feature. This feature allows employees to continue their Group Term Life coverage under a separate group policy without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  Rates for this coverage are different from the active plan rates and the employee must port a minimum of $20,000 to exercise this option. You have 31 days from the date your coverage ends to apply for Portability. You may continue the same or lesser amount of coverage.
If you are unable to continue your entire life insurance amount through Portability, you may apply for Conversion of the balance. Contact MetLife atif you have any questions or want to apply for Portability
1-866-492-6983
.
Converting to an Individual Policy
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent childs life insurance coverage is reduced due to retirement, the amount of coverage your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child lost may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child life insurance you lost under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child loses coverage under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan because of your death or because he or she no longer meets eligibility requirements, their coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.  (In the case of minor children, the parent or legal guardian may act on their behalf.) The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Dependent Life Insurance that ends under the Dependent Life Insurance provisions of the MetLife group policy.
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child loses coverage under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan because Dow has cancelled the dependent life coverage under the group policy with MetLife, or Dow has amended the eligibility
 
58
 
requirements of the Plan to exclude you or your dependents from eligibility under the Plan, you may convert coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy for your Dependent; provided you have been enrolled in coverage for your Dependent  under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to the date the MetLife group coverage  for our Dependent ended.  The amount that may be converted is limited to the lesser of:
A conversion application must be filed with MetLife within 31 days of the date coverage is lost or reduced.  You or your Dependent must contact the HR Service Center to obtain a form for converting the coverage.   Once the form has been obtained, you or your Dependent should contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877-275-6387.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than the group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce the cost.
Employee Contribution
The Employee pays for Dependent Life Insurance coverage.  Your contribution, made through post tax payroll deductions, is based on the coverage option that you choose. For coverage on your Spouses/Domestic Partners life, your contribution
will also depend on whether your Spouse/Domestic Partner is a non-tobacco-user. Your Spouse/Domestic Partner is considered a non-tobacco-user by the Plan if your Spouse/Domestic Partner has not used a tobacco product in the last 12 months.  If your Spouse/Domestic Partner quits using tobacco, your Spouse/Domestic Partner is considered a non-tobacco-user as of the first day of the month after your Spouse/Domestic Partner completes 12 non-tobacco-using months.  If your Spouse/Domestic Partner is a non-tobacco-user, your Spouse/Domestic Partner is considered a tobacco-user as of the first day your Spouse/Domestic Partner uses tobacco.  A false or out-of-date statement regarding tobacco use may result in benefits not being paid. For your portion of the monthly costs, refer to the open enrollment materials provided during open enrollment.
If you are on a Benefit Protected Leave of Absence, the Plan Administrator has the full discretion to make special administrative arrangements as are necessary, such as deferring Employee contributions on a temporary basis during the leave of absence, and requiring the Employee to repay premiums when the Employee returns to work, or any other arrangements the Plan Administrator deems appropriate.
Benefit Payment
You are the beneficiary of your Dependent Life Insurance Plan.
The benefits will be paid to you if you survive the Dependent.  If you do not survive your Dependent, MetLife may pay one or more of the following who survive you:
If you do not survive your Dependent, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.  Any payment made by MetLife in good faith will discharge the Plans liability to the extent of such payment.
You should contact the HR Service Center to report a Dependents death.  A death                                                                              certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds.  To file a claim, see of this SPD.
Payment.
 
certified
Claims Procedures Appendix
Funding
Employees pay the entire premium for coverage.  The benefits under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan are not combined for experience with the other insurance coverages.  Favorable experience
 
59
 
 
under this insurance coverage in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience in prior years. It is not anticipated that there will be any dividends declared for the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and the Dependent Life Insurance Plan based on the manner in which the insurer has determined the premium rates.
Joint Insurance Arrangement
 
Dorinco Reinsurance Company (Dorinco) and MetLife have entered into an arrangement that is allowed by the U.S. Department of Labor pursuant to Prohibited Transaction Exemption 96-62 and 29 CFR Part 2570, subpart B. [DOL Final Authorization Number 2001-17E (May 14, 2001)].  Under this arrangement, MetLife has or will write the coverage for the Plan and Dorinco will assume a percentage of the risk.  Under the insurance arrangement between MetLife and Dorinco, MetLife and Dorinco will each be liable to pay the agreed upon percentage of each death benefit claim in respect of a Plan Participant.  When a claim for benefits is approved, Dorinco will transfer its percentage of each death benefit claim to MetLife.  MetLife will then pay the full amount of the claim.  If MetLife is financially unable to pay the portion of the claim, Dorinco will be obligated to pay the full amount of the claim directly.  Similarly, if Dorinco is financially unable to pay its designated percentage of a particular claim, MetLife will be obligated to pay the entire amount of the claim.  Neither MetLife nor Dorinco will charge the Plan any administrative fees, commissions or other consideration as a result of the participation of Dorinco.  This joint insurance arrangement is not applicable to coverage for Hourly Employees employed by Michigan Operations, or their Dependents.
Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO) for Spouses/Domestic Partners Only
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if your Spouse/Domestic Partner has been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80 percent of your Spouse/Domestic Partner Dependent Life Insurance benefits  before your Spouse/Domestic Partners death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, your Spouse/Domestic Partner must be covered for at least $10,000 under the Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000) of the Spouse/Domestic Partner Dependent Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of accelerated benefit paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your employment status changes in the future, and your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerated Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the HR Service Center at 1-877-623-8079 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, section, and section at the end of this SPD.
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
ERISA Enforcement
Welfare Benefits
The Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
Filing a Claim
See the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
 
60
 
Appealing a Denial of Claim
See the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Fraud Against the Plan
Any Plan Participant who intentionally misrepresents information to the Plan or knowingly misinforms, deceives or misleads the Plan or knowingly withholds relevant information may have his/her coverage cancelled retroactively to the date deemed appropriate by the Plan Administrator.  Further, such Plan Participant may be required to reimburse the Plan for Claims paid by the Plan.  The employer may determine that termination of employment is appropriate and the employer and/or the Plan may choose to pursue civil and/or criminal action.  The Plan Administrator may determine that the Participant is no longer eligible for coverage under the Plan because of his or her actions.
Grievance Procedure
If you want to appeal the denial of a claim for benefits, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
If you feel that anyone is discriminating against you for exercising your rights under these Plans, or if you feel that someone has interfered with the attainment of any right to which you feel you are entitled under these Plans, or if you feel that the Plan Administrator has denied you any right you feel that you have under these Plans, you must notify the Plan Administrator (listed in the  section of this SPD) in writing within 120 days of the date of the alleged wrongdoing.  The Plan Administrator will investigate the allegation and respond to you in writing within 120 days.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation has merit, the Plan Administrator will either correct the wrong (if it was the Plan which did the wrong), or will make a recommendation to the Participating Employer if any of them have been alleged to be responsible for the wrongdoing.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation is without merit, you may appeal the Plan Administrators decision.  You must submit written notice of your appeal to the Plan Administrator within 60 days of receipt of the Plan Administrators decision.  Your appeal will be reviewed and you will receive a written response within 60 days, unless special circumstances require an extension of time.  The Plan Administrator will give you written notice and reason for the extension.   In no event should the decision take longer than 120 days after receipt of your appeal.  If you are not satisfied with the Plan Administrators response to your appeal, you may file suit in court.  
ERISA Information
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Plan Administrators written response to your appeal.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit
Your Legal Rights
When you are a participant in the Company-Paid, Employee-Paid or Dependent Life Insurance Plans, you are entitled to certain rights and protections under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). This law requires that all Plan participants must be able to:
In addition to creating rights for you and all other Plan Participants, ERISA imposes duties on the people who are responsible for operating an employee benefit plan.  The people who operate the Plans, called fiduciaries of the Plans, have a duty to act prudently and in the interest of you and other Plan Participants and beneficiaries.
No one, including your employer or any other person, may discharge you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a Plan benefit, or from exercising your rights under ERISA. If you have a claim for benefits that is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules.
Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the legal rights described above.  For instance, if you request materials from one of the Plans and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a federal court.  In such a case,
 
 
61
 
 
the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Administrator.  If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you must file a written appeal within the time period specified in the Plans Claims Procedures.  Failure to comply with the Plans claims procedures may significantly jeopardize your rights to benefits.  If you are not satisfied with the final appellate decision, you may file suit in Federal court.  The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees.  If you are successful the court may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and fees.  If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds your claim is frivolous.
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Claims Administrators or the Plan Administrators final written decision (or the deadline the Claims Administrator or Plan Administrator had to notify you of a decision).  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.  
If it should happen that plan fiduciaries misuse one of the Plans money, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a Federal court.
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the
alleged misuse.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
If you feel that anyone is discriminating against you for exercising your rights under this benefit plan, or if you feel that someone has interfered with the attainment of any right to which you feel you are entitled under any of the Plans, you must notify the Plan Administrator listed in the  section of this SPD in writing within 120 days of the date of the alleged wrongdoing.  The Plan Administrator will investigate the allegation and respond to you in writing within 120 days.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation has merit, the Plan Administrator will either correct the wrong, if it was the Plan which did the wrong, or will make a recommendation to the Plan Sponsor or Participating Employer if any of them have been alleged to be responsible for the wrongdoing.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation is without merit, you may appeal the Plan Administrators decision.   You must submit written notice of your appeal to the Plan Administrator within 60 days of receipt of the Plan Administrators decision.  Your appeal will be reviewed and you will receive a written response within 60 days.  If you are not satisfied with the Plan Administrators response to your appeal, you may file suit in Federal court.  
ERISA Information
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Plan Administrators written response to your appeal.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
If you have any questions about the Program, you should contact the Plan Administrator.  If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, you should contact the nearest Office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
 
Plan Administrators Discretion
 
The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Programs.  Except for the duties reserved to the Claims Administrator, the Plan Administrator has the full and complete discretion to interpret and construe all of the provisions of the Programs.  Such interpretation of the provisions of the Programs shall be final, conclusive, and binding.  The Plan Administrator also has the full and complete discretion to make findings of fact.  Except for the duties reserved to the Claims Administrator, the Plan Administrator has the full authority to apply those findings of fact to the provisions of the Programs.  All findings of fact made by the Plan Administrator shall be final, conclusive and binding.  For a detailed description of the Plan Administrators authority, see the Plan Document for the applicable Program.  For information about the Claims Administrators discretion, see Claims Procedures Appendix.
Welfare Benefits
Welfare benefits, such as the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan and Dependent Life Insurance Plan, are not required to be guaranteed by a government agency.
Amendment, Modification, or Termination of the Programs
The Company reserves the right to amend, modify, or terminate the Programs at any time at its sole discretion.   The procedures for amending, modifying or terminating the Programs are contained in the Plan Document for the respective Program.
 
62
 
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plans are Terminated
The Company may terminate any of the Programs or Plans at any time at its sole discretion.   If the Company terminates a Plan, the assets of the Plan, if any, shall not be used by the Company, but may be used in any of the following ways:
Class Action Lawsuits
Legal actions against the Plan must be filed in U.S. federal court.  Class action lawsuits must be filed either 1) in the jurisdiction in which the Plan is administered (Michigan) or 2) the jurisdiction in the United States of America where the largest number of putative members of the class action reside.  This provision does not waive the requirement to exhaust administrative remedies before the filing of a lawsuit.
 
For More Information
If you have questions, phone the HR Service Center at (989) 638-8757 or 877-623-8079. They can provide more details about this benefit Plan.
Important Note
 
 
 
63
 
 
 
64
 
 
65
 
 
 
66
 
You Must File a Claim in Accordance with These Claims Procedures
A Claim is a request by a claimant for a or an .  There are two kinds of Claims:
written
Plan benefit
Eligibility Determination
A is a request for benefits covered under the Plan.
Claim for Plan Benefits
An is a kind of Claim.  It is a request for a determination as to whether a claimant is eligible to be a Participant or covered Dependent under the Plan.
Eligibility Determination
You must follow the claims procedures for either , whichever applies to your situation.   See the applicable sections below entitled and
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
or CLAIMS FOR AN ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATION
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
CLAIMS FOR ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS.
Who Will Decide Whether to Approve or Deny My Claim?
 
The Program has more than one Claims Administrator.  Each of the Claims Administrators is a named fiduciary of the Program with respect to the respective types of Claims that they process.
 
Claims for an Eligibility Determination:  The initial determination is made by the Initial Claims Reviewer.  The Initial Claims Reviewer is the U.S. health and Welfare Leader for The Dow Chemical Company or his delegate. If you appeal, the appellate decision is made by the Appeals Administrator.   The Appeals Administrator is the Global Director of Benefits for The Dow Chemical Company.
Claims for a Plan Benefit:  The initial determination is made by the Initial Claims Reviewer.  The Initial Claims Reviewer is MetLife.  If you appeal, the appellate decision is made by the Appeals Administrator.   The Appeals Administrator is MetLife.
An Authorized Representative May Act on Your Behalf
An Authorized Representative may submit a Claim on behalf of a Plan Participant.  The Plan will recognize a person as a Plan Participants Authorized Representative if such person submits a notarized document signed by the Participant stating that the Authorized Representative is authorized to act on behalf of such Participant.  A court order stating that a person is authorized to submit Claims on behalf of a Participant will also be recognized by the Plan.
Authority of the Administrators and Your Rights Under ERISA
The Claims Administrators have the full, complete, and final discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact in order to carry out their respective Claims decision-making responsibilities.
Interpretations and claims decisions by the Claims Administrators are final and binding on Participants (except to the extent the Initial Claims Reviewer is subject to review by the Appeals Administrator).   If you are not satisfied with an Appeals Administrators final appellate decision, you may file a civil action against the Plan under s. 502 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) in a federal court.  
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Appeals Administrators final written decision.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
Information Required In Order to Be a Claim:
 
67
 
For Claims that are requests for Plan benefits, the claimant must complete a MetLife claims form.  Call the HR Service Center at 1-877/623-8079 to obtain a form.  (Retirees should call the Retiree Service Center to obtain a form at 1-800/344-0661).   In addition, you must attach a death certificate (must be certified by the government authority, as exhibited by a raised seal on the certificate).  You may request assistance from the U.S. Benefits Center (1-989/636-9556) if you need help completing the MetLife claims form.
certified
Once you have completed the MetLife claims form, you must send it and the death certificate to:
certified
U.S. Benefits Center
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Administrator for the life insurance plans
The U.S. Benefits Center will review and sign your completed MetLife claims form and forward the form and death certificate to:
certified
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
Group Life Claims
P.O. Box 6115
Utica, NY  13504-6115
CLAIMS FOR DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY
Information Required In Order to Be a Claim:
For Claims that are requests for , the Claims must be in writing and contain the following information:
Eligibility Determinations
must be filed with:
Claims for Eligibility Determinations
U.S. Health & Welfare Plans Leader
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Administrator for the life insurance plans
                (Eligibility Determination)
INITIAL DETERMINATIONS
If you submit a or a to the applicable Initial Claims Reviewer, the applicable Initial Claim Reviewer will review your Claim and notify you of its decision to approve or deny your Claim.  Such notification will be provided to you in writing within a reasonable period, not to exceed 90 days of the date you submitted your claim; except that under special circumstances, the Initial Claims Reviewer may have up to an additional 90 days to provide you such written notification.  If the Initial Claims Reviewer needs such an extension, it will notify you prior to the expiration of the initial 90 day period, state the reason why such an extension is needed, and indicate when it will make its determination. If the applicable Initial Claims Reviewer denies the Claim, the written notification of the Claims
Claim for Plan Benefits
Claim for Eligibility Determination
 
68
 
 
decision will state the reason(s) why the Claim was denied and refer to the pertinent Plan provision(s). If the Claim was denied because you did not file a complete Claim or because the Initial Claims Reviewer needed additional information, the Claims decision will state that as the reason for denying the Claim and will explain why such information was necessary.
APPEALING THE INITIAL DETERMINATION
If the applicable Initial Claims Reviewer has denied your or , you may appeal the decision.  If you appeal the Initial Claims Reviewers decision, you must do so in writing within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Claims Reviewers determination, assuming that there are no extenuating circumstances, as determined by the applicable Initial Claims Reviewer.  Your written appeal must include the following information:
Claim for Plan Benefits
Claim for Eligibility Determination
      Name of Employee
      Name of the benefit Plan
      Reference to the Initial Determination
      Explain reason why you are appealing the Initial Determination
Send appeals of to:
Eligibility Determinations
Global Director of Benefits
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Administrator for the life insurance plans
    (Appeal of Eligibility Determination)
Send appeals of benefit denials to:
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
Group Life Claims  The Dow Chemical Company
Oneida County Industrial Park
Utica, NY  13504-6115
Attention: Claims Administrator
    (Appellate Review)
You may submit any additional information to the applicable Appeals Administrator when you submit your request for appeal.  You may also request that the Appeals Administrator provide you copies of documents, records and other information that is relevant to your Claim, as determined by the applicable Appeals Administrator under applicable federal regulations.  Your request must be in writing.  Such information will be provided at no cost to you.
After the applicable Appeals Administrator receives your written request to appeal the initial determination, the Appeals Administrator will review your Claim.  Deference will not be given to the initial adverse decision, and the appellate reviewer will look at the Claim anew.  The person who will review your appeal will not be the same person as the person who made the initial decision to deny the Claim.  In addition, the person who is reviewing the appeal will not be a subordinate who reports to the person who made the initial decision to deny the Claim.  The Appeals Administrator will notify you in writing of its final decision.  Such notification will be provided within a reasonable period, not to exceed 60 days of the written request for appellate review, except that under special circumstances, the Appeals Administrator may have up to an additional 60 days to provide written notification of the final decision.  If the Appeals Administrator needs such an extension, it will notify you prior to the expiration of the initial 60 day period, state the reason why such an extension is needed, and indicate when it will make its determination.  If the Appeals Administrator determines that it does not have sufficient information to make a decision on the Claim prior to the expiration of the initial 60 day period, it will notify you.  It will describe any additional material or information necessary to submit to the Plan, and provide you with the deadline for submitting such information.  The initial 60 day time period for the Appeals Administrator to make a final written decision, plus the 60 day extension period (if applicable) are tolled from the date the notification of insufficiency is sent to you until the date on which it receives your response.  (Tolled means the clock or time is stopped or suspended.  In other words, the deadline for the Appeals
 
69
 
 
Administrator to make its decision is put on hold until it receives the requested information).  The tolling period ends when the Appeals Administrator receives your response, regardless of the adequacy of your response.
If the Appeals Administrator has determined to that its final decision is to deny your Claim, the written notification of the decision will state the reason(s) for the denial and refer to the pertinent Plan provision(s).
 
70
 
See Plan Document for additional definitions.  A pronoun or adjective in the masculine gender includes the feminine gender, and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
or means that you are performing all of the usual and customary duties of your job with the Participating Employer on a Full Time or Less-Than Full Time basis.  This must be done at:
Actively at Work
Active Work
You will be deemed to be Actively at Work during weekends or Participating Employer approved vacations, holidays or business closures if you were Actively at Work on the last scheduled work day preceding such time off.
means either the Plan Administrator or the Claims Administrator.
"Administrator"
with respect to reviewing an adverse Claim for Benefits, means MetLife.  The Appeals Administrator for reviewing an adverse Claim for an Eligibility Determination is the Global Director of Benefits for The Dow Chemical Company.
Appeals Administrator
 
or means an Employee who is represented by a collective bargaining unit that is recognized by the Company or Participating Employer.  Hourly Employee and Bargained-for Employee have the same meaning.
"Bargained-for Individual"
Bargained-for Employee
means a written request by a claimant for a plan benefit or an Eligibility Determination that contains at a minimum, the information described in the Claims Procedures Appendix of the applicable SPD.
"Claim"
means a Claim requesting a determination as to whether a claimant is eligible to be a Participant under a Plan.
"Claim for an Eligibility Determination"
means a Claim requesting that the Plan pay for benefits covered under a Plan.
"Claim for a Plan Benefit"
means either the Initial Claims Reviewer or the Appeals Administrator, depending on the context of the sentence in which the term is used.
"Claims Administrator"
means the Internal Revenue code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  Reference to any section or subsection of the Code includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation which amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
"Code"
means The Dow Chemical Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware.
"Company"
means disability retirement under the Morton International, Inc. Pension Plan for Collectively-Bargained Employees, or under Article G of Rider No. 2 of the Rohm and Haas Company Retirement Plan.
Disability Retirement
means a person who is a member of a Domestic Partnership.
Domestic Partner
means two people claiming to be "domestic partners" who meet all of the following requirements of paragraph A, or the requirements of paragraph B:
Domestic Partnership
A.
 
71
 
B.
means a Participating Employer or collectively, the Participating Employers, as determined by the context of the sentence in which it is used, as such is interpreted by the Plan Administrator or his delegee.
"Dow"
meansa person who:
Employee
 
The definition of Employee does not include an individual who performs services for the benefit of a Participating Employer if his compensation is paid by an entity or source other than the Companys U.S. Payroll Department or another Participating Employers U.S. Payroll Department.  Further, the definition of Employee does not include any individual who is characterized by the Participating Employer as an independent contractor, contingent worker, consultant, contractor, or similar term.  These individuals are not Employees (with a capital E) for purposes of the Plan even if such an individual is determined by a court or regulatory agency to be a common law employee of a Participating Employer.
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
"ERISA"
Employee means an Employee who has been classified by a Participating Employer as having full-time status.
Full-Time
means an Employee who is represented by a collective bargaining unit that is recognized by the Company or Participating Employer.  Hourly Employee and Bargained-for Employee have the same meaning.
"Hourly Employee"
with respect to deciding Claims for Plan Benefits is MetLife.  With respect to deciding a Claim for an Eligibility Determination, the Initial Claims Reviewer is the U.S. Health and Welfare Leader.
Initial Claims Reviewer
Employee means an Employee who has been approved by a Participating Employer to work 20 to 39 hours per week and is classified by a Participating Employer as having Less-Than-Full-Time Status.
Less-Than-Full-Time
means that a Participating Employer has made a determination that an Employee is permanently relocated to a particular country, and the Employee has accepted such determination.  For example, a Malaysian national is Localized to
Localized
 
72
 
the U.S. when a Participating Employer has determined that such Employee is permanently relocated to the U.S., and such Employee has accepted such determination.
or means a legally valid marriage between a man and a woman recognized by the state in which the man and the woman reside.
"Married"
"Marriage"
means Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
MetLife
means the Company or any other corporation or business entity the Company authorizes to participate in the Program with respect to its Employees. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, a Participating Employer is only a Participating Employer while it is a member of the Controlled Group. If the entity ceases to be a member of the Controlled Group, then the entity ceases to be a Participating Employer on the date it is no longer a member of the Controlled Group. Controlled Group is with respect to The Dow Chemical Company, and means a controlled group
"Participating Employer"
of corporations or entities within the meaning of section 414(b) or section 414(c) of the Code.
means either the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (for Salaried and Certain Bargained for Employees), which is a component of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507); or the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan or the Dependent Life Insurance Plan, which are components of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515); whichever the case may be.
Plan
means each of the Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, the Global Director of Benefits, the U.S. Health and Welfare Leader, and such other person, group of persons or entity  which may be designated by the Plan Sponsor in accordance with the Plan Document.
Plan Administrator
means either the plan document for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program or The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program, whichever the case may be.
"Plan Document"
means either The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507) or The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515), whichever the case may be.
"Program"
means the 12-consecutive-month period ending each December 31.
"Program Year"
  is an Employee who is classified by the Employer as regular.
Regular Employee
means when an active Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service terminates employment with a Participating Employer who is also a Retiree.
"Retire" or "Retirement"
means an Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service when his employment terminated with a Participating Employer and is eligible to receive a pension under the Dow Employees Pension Plan and was a Participant in the Program on the day preceding Retirement.  An Employee who is receiving, or has received a benefit, under the 1993 Special Separation Payment Plan who is 50 or older at the time he leaves active employment with Dow, regardless of years of Service, is also a "Retiree".
"Retiree"
also means an Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service when his employment terminated with a Participating Employer, terminated employment with the Participating Employer on or after February 6, 2003, is eligible to receive a pension under the terms of the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, and was a Participant in the Program on the day preceding termination of employment with the Participating Employer.
Retiree
also means an Employee who was enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan, terminated employment with Dow Chemical Canada Inc. on or after October 1, 2003 at age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service, is eligible to receive a pension from the pension plan sponsored by Dow Chemical Canada Inc., and signed a waiver of all his rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between himself and The Dow Chemical Company.
Retiree
means the participating employer as defined under the Rohm and Haas Company Health and Welfare Plan.
Rohm and Haas Company
 
73
 
means an individual who is not represented by a collective bargaining unit.
"Salaried"
means:
Service
With respect to a Retiree who is eligible to receive a pension from the Dow Employees Pension Plan, "Service" means either Eligibility Service" or "Credited Service" recognized under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan, whichever is greater.   With respect to a Retiree who is eligible to receive a pension from the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, Service means Eligibility Service or Credited Service recognized under the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, whichever is greater.
means a person who is Married to the Employee.
"Spouse"
means the Summary Plan Description.
SPD
 
 
74
 

 
 
 
Copies of updated SPDs can be found at the Dow Intranet address above, or by requesting a copy from the Retiree Service Center, Employee Development Center, Midland, MI 48674, telephone 800-344-0661 or 989-636-0977.  Summaries of modifications may also be published from time to time in DowFriends or by separate letter.
 
75
 
Overview
Three life insurance benefit plans are available to eligible Retirees and their families:  Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan (hereafter collectively referred to as the Plans or individually as Plan).   This is the Summary Plan Description (SPD) for these plans.  Different eligibility and coverage levels will apply depending on whether you are a Retired Salaried Employee or a Retired Hourly Employee.  Also, there are differences among the various Hourly groups.   Special rules also apply to Retired Split Dollar Participants, Post-65 Executive Life Participants and Disability Retirees.
Chapter One applies to The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan).  The Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is sponsored and administered by The Dow Chemical Company.  It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507).  It provides group term life insurance underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).
Chapter Two applies to The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan (Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan).  The Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan is sponsored and administered by The Dow Chemical Company.   Premiums are paid by the Retiree. It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515).  It provides group term life insurance underwritten by MetLife.
Chapter Three applies to The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan (Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan).  The Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan is sponsored and administered by The Dow Chemical Company.  It is part of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program.  It provides group term life insurance underwritten by MetLife.  The premium is paid by the Retiree.  Coverage may be provided for eligible Dependents
Please review the information in this SPD carefully to become familiar with your benefit plans, guidelines, rights and responsibilities.  Words that are capitalized are either defined in this SPD or in the Plan Documents for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (for the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan) and The Dow Chemical Company Employee Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (for the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan).  The Plan Documents include the applicable insurance policies and insurance certificates.  The Plan Documents are available upon request.  Contact the Plan Administrator listed in the section.
ERISA Information
References to Dow and Participating Employers are used interchangeably, and both refer collectively to The Dow Chemical Company and the subsidiaries and affiliates of The Dow Chemical Company that are authorized to participate in the Plans.  The Company means The Dow Chemical Company.
 
 
 
 
76
 
Chapter One:
 
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program were merged into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan:  Michigan Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan; Texas Operations Hourly Basic Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan for Retirees Who Retired Between March 1, 1988 and January 1, 1999; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (Waterloo); and ANGUS Hourly Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.   Effective December 31, 2005, the Dow AgroSciences LLC Life Insurance Plan was terminated, and the retiree company-paid life insurance portion of that plan was incorporated into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan for those who retired prior to January 1, 2006.
The Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter One as the Plan.
Section 1 applies to Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Section 2 applies to Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employees
Section 3 applies to Retired Texas Operations Hourly Employees who retired prior to January 1, 2003
Section 4 applies to Retired Hampshire Waterloo Hourly Employees who retired during a specified period
Section 5 applies to Retired Hampshire Owensboro and Nashua Hourly Employees who retired during a specified period
Section 6 applies to Disability Retirees
Section 7 applies to Retired Split Dollar Participants
Section 8 applies to Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participants
Section 9 applies to Certain Union Carbide Retirees who retired prior to February 7, 2003
Section 10 applies to Retired Employees of Dow AgroSciences LLC who retired prior to January 1, 2006
Section 11 applies to post January 22, 2007 acquisition new hires
Section 1.  Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Eligibility
Section 1 of Chapter One of this SPD does apply to:
NOT
 
1
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan or you become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan, or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire date will be recognized by the Plan.
 
77
 
Except for those populations identified above, if you are a Retiree who, on the day preceding your Retirement, were enrolled for coverage under a Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan offered under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program, you are eligible for the coverage described below in .   In order to be a Retiree, you must meet the definition of Retiree under the Plan.
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
Enrollment
Upon Retirement, you may complete an enrollment form, with coverage effective immediately.  If you want to be covered under Plan Option I at age 65, you must complete an enrollment form and return it to the U.S. Benefits Center of your Retirement.  .
within 31 days
Failure to return the form within 31 days of your Retirement will result in automatic enrollment in pre-age 65 coverage and Plan Option II at age 65
  At a later date, you may decrease your coverage option by switching from Plan Option I to Plan Option II; however, you will not be permitted to upgrade your coverage by switching from Plan Option II to Plan Option I, even with a statement of health form.
Note:
You may waive coverage.  If you want to waive coverage, you must provide written notification to the U.S. Benefits Center.  
If you waive coverage, you waive coverage permanently.  If you waive coverage prior to age 65, your coverage for after age 65 is also waived, and you may not re-enroll for coverage.  You may not re-enroll at any time in the future.
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
Coverage Prior to Age 65
Except for eligible Retirees of Americas Styrenics, until you reach age 65, you will be provided with coverage equal to one times (1x) your base annual salary at time of Retirement, rounded up to the next $1000, plus $5000.   Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
2
If you Retire from Americas Styrenics, and met the eligibility requirements for this Plan at the time you left your prior Participating Employer, the applicable salary for determining your coverage is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  See footnote 4 below.
 
2
The applicable salary if you work for Americas Styrenics is not your Americas Styrenics salary at time of retirement from Americas Styrenics.  The applicable salary is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  For example, lets assume that you worked for The Dow Chemical Company immediately prior to beginning employment with Americas Styrenics, and your base annual salary was $45,000 at The Dow Chemical Company at that time.  Lets also assume that at the time you leave Americas Styrenics, your base annual salary is $50,000.  The salary that the Plan will use to determine your coverage will be the $45,000 base annual salary at the time you left The Dow Chemical Company.
 
78
 
Coverage Age 65 or older
There are two plan options available to Retirees age 65 and older.  Plan Option I requires a monthly Retiree contribution.  Currently, Plan Option II is provided at no cost to you.   If you Retire from Americas Styrenics, and met the eligibility requirements for this Plan at the time your left your prior Participating Employer, the applicable salary for determining your coverage is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  See footnote 2 below.
Beginning on the first of the month following your 65th birthday, your life insurance will equal 1x your base annual salary at time of Retirement, rounded up to the next $1,000.  At age 66, your coverage amount is reduced 20 percent (of the original amount) each year until age 68.  At age 68 and beyond, your coverage amount is equal to one-half your base
Plan Option I:
3
annual salary, with minimum coverage of $10,000.  The following chart summarizes the insurance coverage for Retirees electing Plan Option I:
 
 
Beginning on the first of the month following your 65th birthday, your life insurance will equal 1x your base annual salary, rounded up to the next $1,000.  At age 66, your coverage amount is reduced 20 percent (of the original amount) each year until you reach age 70.  At age 70 and beyond, Dow will provide coverage of $5,000.  The following chart summarizes the insurance coverage for Retirees electing Plan Option II.
Plan Option II:
 
 
 
Cost
Prior to Age 65
Currently, Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage is provided at no cost to you.
Age 65 and Older
You share the cost of coverage with Dow.  Your cost is based on a rate per $1,000 of 1X coverage and is subject to change based on plan experience.  Your premium payment is deducted, post-tax, from your monthly pension check.  Premiums may vary from year to year.  Premium information is communicated in the annual U.S. Retiree Benefits Enrollment Booklet, and periodically in DowFriends.  If you elect not to have your premium deducted from your pension check, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill. .
Plan Option I:
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be canceled
 
  
3
See footnote 2 above.
  
4
See footnote 2 above.
 
  
5
See footnote 2 above.
  
6
See footnote 2 above.
 
  
7
See footnote 2 above.
  
8
See footnote 2 above.
 
9
See footnote 2 above.
10
See footnote 2 above.
 
11
See footnote 2 above.
12
See footnote 2 above.
 
79
 
Currently, coverage is provided at no cost to you.
Plan Option II:
Section 2.  Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employees
Eligibility
If your were hired on or after January 1, 2008, you are not eligible for coverage.  If you were hired prior to January 1, 2008, and you are a Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employee who Retired on or after June 1, 1990 but before January 1, 2008, and you were covered under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for the coverage described below under 
Coverage Amounts for
Eligible
Midland/Ludington Hourly Retirees.
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Midland/Ludington Hourly Retirees
Prior to Age 65
Until you reach age 65, you will be provided with coverage equal to the amount of coverage you had as an active Hourly Employee under the Company-Paid Life Insurance on the day preceding the date of your Retirement.
Age 65 or older
On or after your 65th birthday, your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance benefits will be determined by applying the appropriate percentage from the following table to the amount of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance in effect the date preceding your 65th birthday, with a minimum of $5,000.
 
 
Cost
Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
Section  3.  Retired Texas Operations Employees
Texas Operations Hourly Employees who Retired prior to January 1, 2003, and had Non-Contributory coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Program are eligible for $10,000 of coverage until age 65.  Coverage is reduced to $5000 at age 65.  Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
Section 4.  Retired Hampshire Waterloo Hourly Employees
If you retired from Hampshire Chemical Corp. on or after March 1, 1988,through December 31, 1999, at age 62 or older and were represented while an active employee by the United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO Local Union #7110, a bargaining unit of Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Waterloo, NY facility,you have $5000 of coverage.    Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
 
80
 
Section 5.  Retired Hampshire Owensboro and Nashua Hourly Employees
If you Retired from Hampshire Chemical Corp. between March 1, 1988, and January 1, 1999, and had five or more years of service with W.R. Grace Company and/or Hampshire Chemical Corp. and were represented while an active employee by either the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers (AFL-CIO) Local Lodge 727 (a bargaining unit at Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Owensboro, Kentucky facility) or the International Chemical Workers Union Council/UFCW, Local No. 952-C (a bargaining unit at Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Nashua, New Hampshire facility), you are eligible for the coverage described below in
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Hampshire Owensboro and Nashua Hourly Retirees.
.
Coverage Amounts for Eligible Hampshire Owensboro and Nashua Hourly Retirees
If you are an eligible Retiree who was represented by the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers (AFL-CIO) Local Lodge 727 (a bargaining unit at Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Owensboro, Kentucky facility) while you were an active Employee, your coverage is $6000.
If you are an eligible Retiree who was represented by the International Chemical Workers Union Council/UFCW, Local No. 952-C (a bargaining unit at Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Nashua, New Hampshire facility) while you were an active Employee, your coverage is $5000.
Cost
Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage
Section 6.  Disability Retirees
If your were hired on or after January 1, 2008, you are not eligible for coverage..  If you were hired prior to January 1, 2008, and if you are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan ("DEPP"), as defined under DEPP, and are not a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee who retired prior to January 1, 2003, and you were covered under The Dow Chemical Company Company-Paid Life and/or Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plans on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for the coverage described below in .  If you are receiving disability retirement payments from the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan (UCEPP) and retired on or after February 7, 2003, you are also eligible for the coverage described below in
13
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees.
If you are a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee who retired prior to January 1, 2003 receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan ("DEPP"), as defined under DEPP, and you were covered under the Texas Operations Hourly Contributory Optional Life Insurance Plan coverage on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for coverage as described below in .
Coverage Amounts for Texas Operations Hourly Disability Retirees
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
.  If you are a Retiree who is receiving a disability retirement benefit from DEPP or UCEPP, as defined under DEPP or UCEPP, respectively, you will be provided with Retiree Company-Paid Life coverage equal to the coverage you had as an active employee.  Until age 65, additional coverage equal to 1/2 x or 1x your base annual pay at Retirement, rounded up to the next $1000, is provided if you were previously enrolled for at least that amount of Employee-Paid Life coverage as an active employee.  Coverage is contingent on you continuing to meet the requirements to receive disability retirement benefits from DEPP or UCEPP, whichever is applicable.  If your DEPP disability retirement effective date is (or your UCEPP disability retirement effective date is on or after February 7, 2003 and prior to
Pre-65 coverage
14
prior to January 1, 2006
 
13
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan, and did not become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan  or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire-date will be recognized by the Plan.
 
14
See footnote 3 above.
 
81
 
January 1, 2006), this additional coverage is currently provided at no cost to you.  . If you are: (1) a disability retiree under DEPP or UCEPP, and (2) your DEPP disability retirement effective date is (or your UCEPP disability retirement effective date is on or after  February 7, 2003 and prior to January 1, 2006), and (3) you are not a Texas Operations Hourly Employee who began receiving disability retirement from DEPP prior to January 1, 2003, and (4) you were covered under the Dow Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, then you are covered under Plan Option I if you enrolled for Option I at time of Retirement.  Coverage is contingent on you continuing to meet the requirements to receive disability retirement benefits from DEPP or UCEPP.  Currently, this coverage is provided at no cost to you.
Age 65 and older
prior to January 1, 2006
Coverage Amounts for Texas Operations Hourly Disability Retirees
Retired Prior to January 1, 1997
If you are a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee who retired prior to January 1, 1997 receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan ("DEPP"), as defined under DEPP, and you were covered under the Texas Operations Hourly Contributory Optional Life Insurance Plan coverage on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for coverage.
Retirees Less than Age 65:
Coverage equal to the amount you had as an active employee under the Texas Operations Hourly Contributory Optional Life Insurance Plan was provided until the first of the month following your 65 birthday.
th
Retirees Age 65 or Older:
If prior to age 65 your coverage amount was equal to or greater than $30,000, coverage will be $25,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of coverage is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68 of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
th
 
 
 
Retired on or after January 1, 1997 through December 31, 2002
If you are a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee who retired on or after January 1, 1997 through December 31, 2002, and are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees' Pension Plan ("DEPP"), as defined under DEPP, and you were covered under the Texas Operations Hourly Contributory Optional Life Insurance Plan coverage on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for coverage.
Retirees Less than Age 65:
Coverage was provided in increments of $10,000, subject to a minimum of $10,000 and a maximum of either $60,000, or one-half the amount of Optional Contributory coverage in effect on the day preceding Retirement, whichever is less. Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
Retirees Age 65 or Older:
If prior to age 65, your coverage amount was equal to or greater than $30,000 coverage will be $25,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of covearge is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68
th
of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
 
 
82
 
 
 
 
Section 7.  Retired Split Dollar Participants
A Retired Split Dollar Participant is eligible for the coverage described below in .  A Retired Split Dollar Participant is defined as a person who meets the requirements of one of the following:
Coverage Amount for Eligible Split Dollar Retirees
 
83
 
Enrollment
Retired Split Dollar Participants who were active Employees at the time their split dollar agreement was terminated, are required to submit an enrollment form at the time they Retire.  Failure to return the form within 31 days of Retirement will result in automatic enrollment at the same coverage level you had as an active Employee under Company-Paid Life Insurance (1x coverage).
Coverage Amount for Eligible Split Dollar Retirees
Except for a person described in Section 7(vii), a Retired Split Dollar Participant has 1 times (1x) his or her final annual salary at the time of Retirement, which will continue until death.  However, if you elect to waive this special 1x coverage, you will not be allowed to re-enroll in the future.  With respect to a person described in Section 7 (vii),  a Retired Split Dollar Participant has an amount of coverage equal to 1x, as defined in Section 7 (vii).
15
Cost
Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
Section 8.  Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participants
A Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participant is a person who was notified prior to 1989 of their eligibility for Post-65 Executive Life Insurance, who subsequently retired and completed a Post-65 Executive Life Insurance election form, and did not later enroll in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan.
Enrollment
Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Coverage is closed to new enrollments.
Coverage Amount for Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participants
Effective with their 65 birthday, a Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participant has coverage equal to two times (2x) their final pay up to a maximum of two million dollars.  This coverage will continue until death, as long as the required premiums are paid.
th
Cost
Currently, the cost of this coverage is shared by the Retiree and the Company.  The Retirees contribution, which is based on 1x of coverage is currently $1.62 per thousand.  Premiums are subject to change.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP), you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.   .
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage
will be canceled
End of Coverage
You will retain a one-time option to discontinue coverage under this program and obtain coverage applicable to a Retiree of like age under the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan described under Section 1.  However, there will be no refund of premiums paid under the Post-65 Executive Life Insurance program.
Section 9.  Retired Union Carbide Employees
If you Retired prior to February 7, 2003, you are covered under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Union Carbide Subsidiary Basic Life Insurance Plan.  You are not eligible for coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.
Section 10.  Retired Dow AgroSciences Employees
If you retired prior to January 1, 2006 under the Dow AgroSciences Pension Plan, you are eligible for coverage equal to one times (1x) your  annual base salary at time of retirement, rounded up to the next $1000, until you reach age 66.  At age 66, coverage will decrease 20% each year until you either reach age 70 or until the coverage amount is reduced to $10,000, whichever occurs first.
 
15
See footnote 3 above.
 
84
 
Enrollment
Coverage for Retired Dow AgroSciences Employees under this section is closed to new enrollments.
Cost
Currently, the Company pays the cost of this coverage.
Section 11.  General Eligibility Information
Check the Plan Document, which addresses unusual situations, such as mergers and acquisitions, for additional eligible retiree populations.
The applicable Claims Administrator determines eligibility.  The Claims Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Claims Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
You may waive coverage.  If you want to waive coverage, you must provide written notification to the U.S. Benefits Center.  If you waive coverage, you waive all future rights to re-enroll for coverage.
Section 12.  Reporting Imputed Income
Except for Retired Split Dollar Participants and Post-65 Executive Life Insurance Participants, the Internal Revenue Code allows the cost for the first $50,000 of Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan coverage to be excluded from taxable income.  Any imputed income resulting from your life insurance coverage will be reported to the IRS along with your annual pension income information.
The imputed income is determined based on a Uniform Premium Table established by the federal government.
If you are a retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employee who retired prior to January 1, 2008, the cost of your combined Company-Paid Life and Employee-Paid Life in excess of $50,000 is taxable income and is determined based on the Uniform Premium Table established by the federal government.
If your Retiree Company Paid Life coverage is greater than $50,000, and you want to decrease the amount of coverage from 1X to $50,000, you may elect to do so by contacting the Retiree Service Center.  The age 65 and older reduction factors will be applied to the $50,000 amount, instead of the original Retiree Company-Paid Life amount.  Once coverage is reduced, it may not be reinstated.
Section 13.  Naming Your Beneficiary
If you did not register your beneficiary information with MetLife at www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits, or by mailing the appropriate beneficiary form to the MetLife Recordkeeping Center while an active employee, you must do so upon retirement,  MetLife became the record keeper for Retiree Life Insurance beneficiary designations effective June 1, 2008.  
Beneficiary information previously recorded at the DowBenefits Center was not transferred to MetLife.
 
85
 
If you do not name a beneficiary, your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance benefit will be paid to the person you designated under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  If you do not name a beneficiary and you did not designate a beneficiary under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, MetLife may determine the beneficiary to be one or more of the following who survive you:
               Your Spouse or Domestic Partner; or
               Your children; or
               Your parent(s); or
               Your sibling(s).
If you fail to name a beneficiary and you did not designate a beneficiary under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate. Your failure to designate a beneficiary may delay the payment of funds.
If you wish to change your beneficiary designation, or need to register for the first time, you can do so via the Internet at , or .  If you prefer, you can request forms by calling MetLife Customer Service toll-free at (866) 492-6983, Monday  Friday, 8:00 am  11:00 pm (ET).  A life event (such as marriage/domestic partnership, divorce/termination of domestic partnership, etc.) may signal a need to change your beneficiary.
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
www.dowfriends.com
Section 14.  Benefit Payment
In the event of your death, your beneficiary should contact the Retiree Service Center.  A certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds.  See of this SPD.  Contact the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 15.  Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO)
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if you have been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80% of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefits  before death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, you must be covered for at least $10,000 from your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Retiree Optional Life Insurance.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000 and maximum $500,000) of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of accelerated beneft paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  If the accelerated benefits qualify for such favorable tax treatment, the benefits will be excludable from your income and not subject to federal taxation. Payment of the accelerated benefit will be subject to state taxes and regulations.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced in the future, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerated Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
 
86
 
Section 16.  Funding
The Plan is funded by an insurance policy underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).
Except for Plan Option I, the Participating Employers currently pay the entire cost of the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.   For Plan Option I, the Retiree and  the Participating Employer share the cost.  The insurance carrier underwriting the Plans may combine the experience for the policy with other policies held by Dow.  This means that the costs of these coverages may be determined on a combined basis, and the costs accumulated from year to year.  Favorable experience under one or more coverages in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience on other coverages in the same year or offset unfavorable experience of coverages in prior years.  Policy dividends declared by the insurer for the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan attributable to Dows  premiums are used to reduce Dows cost for the coverage in the same and prior years.
Section 17.  Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, sectionsection, section, section, section, section, section, section and section at the end of this SPD.
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
, Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
Welfare Benefits
the Companys Right to Amend, Modify and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
Section 18.   Ending Coverage
Your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
The date the Group Policy ends;
The date  you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan; or
The date you elect to terminate your coverage.
Section 19.  Converting to an Individual Policy
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because you elect to terminate your coverage or you are longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan, your coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife, Inc. The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of Company-Paid Life Insurance in effect for you under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan on:
If your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage ends because Dow has cancelled the Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage under the MetLife group life insurance policy, or Dow has amended the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan to exclude coverage for your eligible group, you may convert your Company-Paid Life Insurance coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy; provided you have been covered under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to losing coverage under the Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  The amount you may convert is limited to the lesser of:
      $2,000.
You must file a conversion application with MetLife and make the required premium payment to MetLife within 31 days of the date your Dow coverage is lost or decreases.  Contact the Dow Retiree Service Center to obtain a form for converting your coverage.   Once you have obtained the form, contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877- 275-6387 to file your form, or to obtain further information.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
 
87
 
 
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than your group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce your cost.
 
88
 
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans were merged into the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan: The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance plan (Waterloo); and ANGUS Chemical Company Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan.  Effective December 31, 2005, the Dow AgroSciences LLC Life Insurance Plan was terminated, and the optional retiree life insurance portion of that plan was incorporated into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan for those who retired prior to January 1, 2006.  Effective January 1, 2008, the Midland and Ludington Hourly Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan was incorporated into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan for those who retired prior to June 1, 1990, and for those who retired on or after June 1, 1990 provided that their hire date was prior to January 1, 2008.  Group Policies 11700-G-09 and 11700-G-67 for the Michigan Hourly Optional Life Insurance Program were merged into 11700-G.
The Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter Two as the Plan.
Section 1 applies to Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Section 2 applies to Retired Texas Operations Hourly Employees who retired during a specified period
Section 3 applies to Retired Hampshire Waterloo Hourly Employees who retired during a specified period
Section 4 applies to Disability Retirees
Section 5 applies to Retired Split Dollar Participants
Section 6 applies to Certain Union Carbide Retirees who retired prior to February 7, 2003
Section 7 applies to Retired Employees of Dow AgroSciences LLC who retired prior to January 1, 2006
Section 8 applies to Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Retirees who retired prior to January 1, 2008
Section 1.  Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Eligibility
Section 1 of Chapter Two of this SPD does apply to:
NOT
 
16
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan, or you become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan, or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire date will be recognized by the Plan.
 
89
 
Except for those populations identified above, if you are a Retiree who is less than age 65 and, on the day preceding your Retirement, you were enrolled for coverage under an Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan sponsored by a Participating Employer, you are eligible for the coverage described below in without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  If you were not previously enrolled, completing and submitting a statement of health form is required.  In order to be a Retiree, you must meet the definition of Retiree under the Plan.
Optional Coverage Amounts for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
Enrollment
If you were previously enrolled for Employee-Paid Life Insurance as an active Employee, you may complete an enrollment form upon Retirement, with coverage effective immediately under the Retiree Optional Coverage.  You must complete an enrollment form and return it to the U.S. Benefits Center of your Retirement.  .
within 31 days
Failure to return the form within 31 days of your Retirement will result in waiver of your coverage
If you were not previously enrolled, you must complete and submit a statement of health form.  This proof may require a physical examination, at your expense.  MetLife will pay for the fee of a paramedical exam, if requested by MetLife, with no cost to the employee/applicant when a MetLife physician is used.
You may decrease or cancel your coverage at any time by completing a new enrollment form and returning it to the Plan.
If you wish to enroll at a later date or increase your coverage amount, completing and submitting a statement of health form will be required.
Optional Coverage Amounts and Costs for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
You may purchase coverage equal to either 1/2x or 1x your base annual salary at Retirement, rounded up to the next $1,000, if you were previously enrolled for at least that amount of coverage as an active employee.  Pre-65 Retiree Optional rates are age-related rates.  Premium information is communicated annually by the Plan Administrator.  Premiums are subject to change.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan, or the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.   .
17
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage
will be canceled
If you were previously enrolled for a lesser amount, completing and submitting a statement of health form will be required.  In any case, the maximum coverage available is 1x, rounded up to the next $1,000.
If you Retire from Americas Styrenics, and met the eligibility requirements of the Plan at the time you left your prior Participating Employer, the applicable salary for determining your coverage is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  See footnote 21 below.
 
17
The applicable salary if you work for Americas Styrenics is not your Americas Styrenics salary at time of retirement from Americas Styrenics.  The applicable salary is your salary at the time you left your prior Participating Employer.  For example, lets assume that you worked for The Dow Chemical Company immediately prior to beginning employment with Americas Styrenics, and your base annual salary was $45,000 at The Dow Chemical Company at that time.  Lets also assume that at the time you leave Americas Styrenics, your base annual salary is $50,000.  The salary that the Plan will use to determine your coverage will be the $45,000 base annual salary at the time you left The Dow Chemical Company.
 
90
 
of Coverage
End
Coverage ends at the end of the month in which you reach age 65.  Coverage ends earlier than age 65 if you cancel coverage or fail to pay the required premiums.
Section  2.  Retired Texas Operations Employees
Retired on or after October 1, 1992 but prior to January 1, 2003
Texas Operations Hourly Employees who Retired on or after October 1, 1992 but prior to January 1, 2003, and were enrolled on the day preceding their Retirement in the Optional Life Insurance Plan of The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Program are eligible for the coverage.
Retirees Less than Age 65:
Coverage could be purchased in increments of $10,000, subject to a minimum of $10,000 and a maximum of either $60,000, or one-half the amount of Optional Contributory coverage you had in effect on the day preceding your Retirement, whichever is less. Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
Retirees Age 65 or Older:
If you carried an amount equal to or greater than $30,000 prior to age 65 you had the option to purchase $25,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of insurance is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68 of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
th
 
 
Your premium for Retiree Optional Life Insurance is based on the amount of coverage you select. Your premiums are deducted post-tax from your monthly pension check. Premiums are subject to change. Premium changes are published in DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from pension payments, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.  
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled.
Retired Prior to October 1, 1992
Texas Operations Hourly Employees who Retired prior to October 1, 1992, and were enrolled, on the day preceding their Retirement, in the Optional Life Insurance Plan of The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Program are eligible for the coverage.
Retirees Less than Age 65:
Coverage could be purchased for half the amount of coverage you had as an active Employee under the Optional Contributory plan, up to $25,000 until age 65.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
 
91
 
Retirees Age 65 or Older:
If you carried an amount equal to or greater than $30,000 prior to age 65, you had the option to purchase $25,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of insurance is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68 of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
th
 
 
If you carried an amount equal to $20,000 prior to age 65 you had the option to purchase $20,000 beginning on the first of the month following your 65 birthday. The amount of insurance is reduced each year with the minimum amount at age 68 of $10,000.  Once coverage is waived or terminated, it cannot be reinstated.
th
 
 
Your premium for Retiree Optional Life Insurance is based on the amount of coverage you select. Your premiums are deducted post-tax from your monthly pension check. Premiums are subject to change. Premium changes are published in DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from pension payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP), formerly known as the Dow Employee Retirement Plan (ERP), you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled.
Section 3.  Retired Hampshire Waterloo Hourly Employees
If you retired from Hampshire Chemical Corp. on or after March 1, 1988,through December 31, 1999, at age 55 or older and were represented while an active employee by the United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO Local Union #7110, a bargaining unit of Hampshire Chemical Corp.s Waterloo, NY facility, and you were enrolled in Hampshire Chemical Corp. supplemental employee paid life insurance coverage on the day preceding your retirement, you are eligible for the amount of optional life insurance you had on the day preceding your retirement, ie., $2500, $5000, $7500, or $13,000.  You are required to pay the premiums.  Premiums are subject to change.  Changes to premiums are published in DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from your pension payments, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.  
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled.
Section 4.  Disability Retirees
If you were hired on or after January 1, 2008, you are not eligible for coverage.  If you were hired prior to January 1, 2008, and if you are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP), as defined under DEPP, and you are not a former Texas Operations Hourly Employee, and you were covered under The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for the coverage described below in .
18
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
 
18
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan or you become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan, or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire-date will be recognized by the Plan.
 
92
 
If you are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan (UCEPP), as defined under UCEPP, on or after February 7, 2003, and you were covered under The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you are also eligible for the coverage described below in .
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
Coverage Amounts for Disability Retirees
.
Pre-65 coverage
  Effective January 1, 2006, if you are a disability retiree under DEPP or UCEPP, and your disability retirement effective date is on or after January 1, 2006, your eligibility, coverage amounts and costs are the same as Retirees who are not receiving a disability retirement benefit under DEPP or UCEPP.  See Chapter Two, Section 1 of this SPD.
Disability retirement on or after January 1, 2006:
:  See Chapter One, Section 6 of this SPD.
Disability retirement prior to January 1, 2006
.
Age 65 and older
   Effective January 1, 2006, if you are a disability retiree under DEPP or UCEPP and your disability retirement effective date is on or after January 1, 2006, your eligibility, coverage amounts and costs are the same as Retirees who are not receiving a disability retirement under DEPP or UCEPP.
Disability retirement on or after January 1, 2006:
:  See Chapter One, Section 6 of this SPD.
Disability retirement prior to January 1, 2006
Section 5.  Retired Split Dollar Participants
Except for those described in Section 7 (vii)  of Chapter One: Company Paid Life Insurance Plan in this SPD,  Retired Split Dollar Participants are eligible for 1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage if they elected to purchase the 1x Employee-paid or Retiree-paid split dollar replacement coverage (1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage) at the time it was offered to them when their split dollar agreements were terminated, and they continue to pay the premiums for that coverage.  For the definition of Retired Split Dollar Participants see Chapter One of this SPD, Section 7 entitled .  Retired Split Dollar Participants described in Section 7 (vii) of Chapter One are not eligible for coverage under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan.
Retired Split Dollar Participants
The Plan Administrator determines eligibility.  The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Plan Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Enrollment
If you are a Retired Split Dollar Participant who was an active Employee at the time your split dollar agreement was terminated, and you are paying premiums for the 1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage, you are required to submit an enrollment form at the time you Retire if you wish to continue the 1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage as a Retiree.    If you waived the 1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage at the time your split dollar agreement was terminated, or if such coverage was waived or cancelled after your split dollar agreement was terminated, you may not subsequently enroll for such coverage at any time.
Failure to return the form within 31 days of  your Retirement will result in automatic enrollment in the
1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage.
Costs
You pay the premium for coverage.  The cost for coverage is subject to change, according to Plan experience. Premiums are subject to change. If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan or the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.   .
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage
will be canceled
 
93
 
Coverage Levels
Coverage is 1x of your final annual salary rounded up to the next $1,000.
19
End of Coverage
1x Split Dollar Equivalent Coverage ends if you cancel coverage or fail to pay the required premiums.
Section 6.  Retired Union Carbide Employees
If you Retired prior to February 7, 2003, you are covered under The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Union Carbide Subsidiary Basic Life Insurance Plan.  You are not eligible for coverage under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan.
Section 7.  Retired Dow AgroSciences Employees
If you Retired prior to January 1, 2006 under the Dow AgroSciences Pension Plan and if you were enrolled in supplemental coverage (1x, 2x, 3x, or 4x) under the Dow AgroSciences LLC Life Insurance Plan as an active Employee on the day preceding your retirement, you may purchase supplemental life insurance coverage equal to one times your annual base salary at the time of your Retirement.    You are required to pay the premiums.  Premiums are age-related and subject to change.  Changes to premiums are published in DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from your pension, you must pay your premium within 31 days of your bill.  
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled.
Coverage ends at the end of the month in which you reach age 65.  Coverage ends earlier than age 65 if you cancel coverage or fail to pay the required premiums.
Section 8.  Retired Michigan Operations Hourly Employees
Eligibility
If you are a Retired Midland or Ludington Hourly Employee who is less than 65 years of age and you Retired on or after June 1, 1990, but prior to January 1, 2008, you are eligible for Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance coverage.  If you were enrolled in the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you are eligible for continued coverage under this Plan until you reach age 65.  If you were not previously enrolled, you must complete and submit a statement of health form to participate in the Plan.
Coverage Levels
At Retirement, you may purchase coverage equal to either 1/2X, 1X or 1 1/2X your base annual hourly rate on the previous December 1, rounded up to the next $1,000, if you were previously enrolled for at least that amount of coverage as an active employee.
If you were previously enrolled for a lesser amount, a statement of health form will be required.  In any case, the maximum coverage available is 1 1/2X of your base annual hourly rate on the previous December 1, rounded up to the next $1,000.
Cost
Your premium for Pre-65 Retiree Optional Life Insurance is based on your age and the amount of coverage you select.  The cost for coverage is subject to change, according to Plan experience.
Your premiums are deducted post tax from your monthly pension check.  Premiums are subject to change.  Premium changes are published in open enrollment materials and DowFriends.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from pension payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan (DEPP), formerly known as the Dow Employee Retirement Plan (ERP), you must pay your
 
19
.
See footnote 19
 
94
 
premium within 31 days of your bill.  .
If your payment is not postmarked within 31 days of your bill, your coverage will be canceled
If you are receiving a disability retirement benefit from the Dow Employees Pension Plan, as defined under the Dow Employees Pension Plan, and your disability retirement effective date was before January 1, 2006, and you were enrolled in Employee Paid Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement,  your premium is paid by Dow.
Section 9.  General Eligibility Information
Check the Plan Document, which addresses unusual situations, such as mergers and acquisitions, for additional eligible retiree populations.
The applicable Claims Administrator determines eligibility.  The Claims Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Claims Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 10.  Naming Your Beneficiary
If you did not register your beneficiary information with MetLife at www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits, or by mailing the appropriate beneficiary form to the MetLife Recordkeeping Center while an active employee, you must do so upon retirement.    MetLife became the record keeper for Retiree Life Insurance beneficiary designations effective June 1, 2008.  
Beneficiary information previously recorded at the Dow Benefits Center was not transferred to MetLife.
If you do not name a beneficiary, your Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you designated when you were an active Employee under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  If you did not designate a beneficiary under the Employee-Paid Life Insurance Plan, then the Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you designated under the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  If you did not name a beneficiary under the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, your Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you designated under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan.  If you did not name a beneficiary under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, MetLife may determine the beneficiary to be one or more of the following who survive you:
If you did not name a beneficiary under the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan or  while you were an active employee under the active employee Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.   Your failure to designate a beneficiary may delay the payment of funds.
If you wish to change your beneficiary designation, or need to register for the first time, you can do so via the Internet at , or .  If you prefer, you can request forms by calling MetLife Customer Service toll-free at (866) 492-6983, Monday  Friday, 8:00 am  11:00 pm (ET).  A life event (such as Marriage/Domestic Partnership, divorce/termination of Domestic Partnership, etc.) may signal a need to change your beneficiary.
www.MetLife.com/MyBenefits
www.dowfriends.com
Section 11.  Benefit Payment
In the event of your death, your beneficiary should contact the Retiree Service Center.  A certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds.  See of this SPD.  Contact the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661.
Claims Procedures Appendix
 
95
 
Section 12.  Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO)
Under the Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO), if you have been diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you may be eligible to receive up to 80% of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefits  before death if certain requirements are met.  Having access to life proceeds at this important time could help ease financial and emotional burdens.  In order to apply for ABO, you must be covered for at least $10,000 from your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Retiree Optional Life Insurance.  You may receive an accelerated benefit of up to 80 percent (minimum $5,000 and maximum $500,000) of your Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance and/or Retiree Optional Life Insurance benefit.   An accelerated benefit is payable in a lump sum and can be elected only once.  The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of accelerated beneft paid.  Accelerated benefits are not permitted if you have assigned your life insurance benefit to another individual or to a trust.
The accelerated life insurance benefits are intended to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  If the accelerated benefits qualify for such favorable tax treatment, the benefits will be excludable from your income and not subject to federal taxation. Payment of the accelerated benefit will be subject to state taxes and regulations.  Tax laws relating to accelerated benefits are complex.  You are advised to consult with a qualified tax advisor.
Receipt of accelerated benefits may affect your eligibility, or that of your spouse/domestic partner or your family, for public assistance programs such as medical assistance (Medicaid), Aid to Families and Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and drug assistance programs.  You are advised to consult with social services agencies concerning the effect receipt of accelerated benefits will have on public assistance eligibility for you, your spouse/domestic partner or your family.  In the event your life insurance coverage ends or is reduced in the future, the amount of coverage you may be eligible to convert or port will be reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit received.
If you would like to apply for the Accelerate Benefit Option, a claim form can be obtained from the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661 and must be completed and returned for evaluation and approval by MetLife.
Section 13.  Funding
 
The Plan is funded by an insurance policy underwritten by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).
Retirees pay the entire premium for coverage.  The benefits under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan are not combined for experience with the other insurance coverages.  Favorable experience under this insurance coverage in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience in prior years. It is not anticipated that there will be any future dividends declared for the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan based on the manner in which the insurer has determined the premium rates.
Joint Insurance Arrangement
Dorinco Reinsurance Company (Dorinco) and MetLife have entered into an arrangement that has been approved by the U.S. Department of Labor in DOL Opinion Letter 97-24A.  Under this arrangement, MetLife has or will write the coverage for the Plan, and Dorinco will assume a percentage of the risk.  Under the insurance arrangement between MetLife and Dorinco, MetLife and Dorinco will each be liable to pay the agreed upon percentage of each death benefit claim in respect of a Plan Participant.  When a claim for benefits is approved, Dorinco will transfer its percentage of each death benefit claim to MetLife.  MetLife will then pay the full amount of the claim.  If MetLife is financially unable to pay the portion of the claim, Dorinco will be obligated to pay the full amount of the claim directly.  Similarly, if Dorinco is financially unable to pay its designated percentage of a particular claim, MetLife will be obligated to pay the entire amount of the claim.  Neither MetLife nor Dorinco will charge the Plan any administrative fees, commissions or other consideration as a result of the participation of Dorinco.  This joint insurance arrangement does not apply to coverage for Retired Hourly Employees who were employed at Michigan Operations.
Section 14.  Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, section, section, section, section
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
Welfare Benefits
, Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate
 
96
 
section, section,   section, section and section at the end of this SPD.
the Plans
 
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
Section 15.  Ending Coverage
 
 
Your Retiree Optional Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
The date the Group Policy ends;
The date you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan;
The end of the period for which your last premium has been paid; or
The date you elect to terminate your coverage.
Section 16.  Porting Coverage to a Term Life Policy
When your retiree optional life insurance coverage under the Plan ends, your coverage may be continued on a direct bill basis with MetLife through the portability feature. This feature allows retirees to continue their Group Term Life coverage under a separate group policy without completing and submitting a statement of health form.  Rates for this coverage are different from the retiree plan rates and the retiree must port a minimum of $20,000 to exercise this option. You have 31 days from the date your coverage ends to apply for Portability. You may continue the same or lesser amount of coverage. If you are unable to continue your entire life insurance amount through Portability, you may apply for Conversion of the balance. Contact MetLife at 1-866-492-6983 if you have any questions or want to apply for Portability.
Section 17.  Converting to an Individual Policy
If your retiree optional life insurance coverage under the Plan ends because you no longer meet the eligibility requirements of the Plan or you elect to terminate your coverage, you may convert the coverage you lost to an individual non-term policy through MetLife.   The maximum amount of insurance that may be elected for the new policy is the amount of life insurance in effect for you under the on the date:
If your coverage under the MetLife group policy ends because Dow cancels its Group Policy with MetLife or Dow amends the eligibility requirements of the Plan to exclude your work group from eligibility for retiree optional life coverage, you may convert to an individual non-term policy rhough MetLife; provided you were  insured under the retiree optional life provisions of the MetLife group policy  for at least 5 years immediately prior to losing group coverage.   The amount you may convert will be limited to the lesser of:
You must file a conversion application with MetLife within 31 days of the date your Dow coverage is lost or decreases.  Contact the Dow Retiree Service Center to obtain a form for converting your coverage.   Once you have obtained the form, contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877- 275-6387 to file your form, or to obtain further information.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than your group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce your cost.
 
97
 
As of January 1, 2005, the following plans were merged into the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan: The Dow Chemical Company Texas Operations Hourly Optional Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan; Hampshire Chemical Corporation Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan; and ANGUS Chemical Company Hourly Optional Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.   Such plans no longer exist as separate plans, but are now a part of the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  Effective January 1, 2008, the Midland and Ludington Hourly Pre-65 Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan was incorporated into The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan for those who retired prior to June 1, 1990, and for those who retired on or after June 1, 1990 provided that their hire date was prior to January 1, 2008.
The Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan is referred to in Chapter Three as the Plan.
Section 1 applies to Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Section 2 through to the remaining sections of Chapter Three apply to all persons eligible for coverage under the Plan
Section 1.  Retired Salaried Employees and Certain Retired Hourly Employees
Eligibility
Section 1 of Chapter Three of this SPD does apply to:
NOT
 
20
An Employees earliest hire date with a Participating Employer will be recognized by the Program, provided there are no breaks in service outside the group of Participating Employers.  If there is a break in service, your latest date of hire shall apply, unless you meet the following description.  Description: Your employment with a Participating Employer terminated prior to January 1, 2008 (referred to as your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date), and you are subsequently re-hired by a Participating Employer, and 1) you become a participant of the DEPP component of the Dow Employees Pension Plan, or you become a participant of the UCEPP component of the Union Carbide Employee Pension Plan, or 2) you were eligible for coverage under a retiree life insurance plan under the Program as of your pre-January 1, 2008 termination date because you were a Retiree.  If you meet this description, your first hire date will be recognized by the Plan.
 
21
 
Between January 1, 2002 and February 7, 2003, participants of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Programs Union Carbide Subsidiary Basic Life Insurance Plan were offered dependent spouse coverage under The Dow Chemical Company Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.
 
98
 
Except for those populations identified above, if you are a Retiree who, on the day preceding Retirement, was enrolled as an active Employee in a Dependent Life Insurance Plan sponsored by a Participating Employer, you are eligible for continued coverage for your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record and/or Dependent children who were covered under the active employee plan.  In order to be a Retiree, you must meet the definition of Retiree under the Plan.  If you are a Retired Michigan Hourly Employee you must also have Retired on or after January 1, 1990 in order to be eligible for this Plan.
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record is eligible to participate in any dependent life insurance plan sponsored by a Participating Employer, either as a Dow Employee or Retiree, each of you may insure the other but only one of you may enroll for coverage for your dependent children.  Double coverage is not allowed.
See Section 3 entitled for who may be covered as a Dependent.
Dependent Eligibility
Enrollment
If you were previously enrolled for Dependent Life Insurance, complete the Dependent Life Insurance section of the Retiree enrollment form.  Your continuation coverage will be effective immediately.  You must complete the enrollment form and return it to the U.S. Benefits Center of your Retirement.  .
within 31 days
Failure to return the form within 31 days of your Retirement will result in waiver of coverage
If you waive coverage when you Retire, you waive all future rights to participate in the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.
Dependent Coverage Amounts for Eligible Salaried and Hourly Retirees
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record was covered under your Dependent Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you may continue coverage equal to $5,000.
Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record:
  For any Dependent child who was covered under your Dependent Life Insurance Plan on the day preceding your Retirement, you may continue coverage equal to $1,000, as long as he or she continues to meet eligibility requirements.
Dependent Children:
Cost
You pay the premium for coverage.  Your premium for Retiree Dependent Life Insurance is based on the option that you select.  The cost for coverage is subject to change, according to Plan experience.  Premiums are subject to change.  If your premiums are not automatically deducted from payments from the Dow Employees Pension Plan or the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan,  your premium within 31 days of your bill.   .
If your payment is not postmarked within
31 days of your bill, your coverage will be cancelled
Section 2.  General Eligibility Information
If you do not meet the above eligibility criteria, check the Plan Document for additional eligible retiree populations.
The Plan Administrator determines eligibility.  The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Plan and has the full discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact.  Interpretations and eligibility determination by the Plan Administrator are final and binding on Participants.
If you want to file a Claim for a Determination of Eligibility because you are not sure whether you are eligible to participate in the Plan or have been told that you are not, see the of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 3.  Dependent Eligibility
You may purchase coverage on the life of your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record and/or the life of your Dependent child or Dependent children.
 
99
 
Child means your natural child, adopted child or stepchild who is:
The Plan defines a Full-Time Student as a student who is a full-time student at an educational institution at any time during the Plan Year.  The determination as to whether a student is full-time is based upon the number of hours or courses which is considered to be full-time by the educational institution.
Generally, a child is NOT a Dependent if he or she is:
A Dependent Spouse, Domestic Partner, or child is not eligible if he or she resides outside the United States and Canada, or is in the military.
Section 4.  Beneficiary Designation
You are the beneficiary of the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan.  This cannot be changed.  The benefits will be paid to you if you survive the Dependent.  
If you do not survive your Dependent, MetLife may pay one or more of the following who survive you:
If you do not survive your Dependent, instead of making payment to any of the above, MetLife may pay your estate.  Any payment made by MetLife in good faith will discharge the Plans liability to the extent of such payment.
Section 5.  Benefit Payment
In the event of the death of your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child, contact the Retiree Service Center.  A certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife to disburse the life insurance proceeds. See of this SPD.  Your benefit will be paid in a lump sum.  Contact the Retiree Service Center at 1-800-344-0661.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 6.  Funding
Retirees pay the entire premium for coverage.  The benefits under the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan are not combined for experience with the other insurance coverages.  Favorable experience under this insurance coverage in a particular year may offset unfavorable experience in prior years. It is not anticipated that
 
100
 
there will be any future dividends declared for the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan based on the manner in which the insurer has determined the premium rates.
Section 7.  Joint Insurance Arrangement
Dorinco Reinsurance Company (Dorinco) and MetLife have entered into an arrangement that has been approved by the U.S. Department of Labor in DOL Opinion Letter 97-24A.  Under this arrangement, MetLife has or will write the coverage for the Plan, and Dorinco will assume a percentage of the risk.  Under the insurance arrangement between MetLife and Dorinco, MetLife and Dorinco will each be liable to pay the agreed upon percentage of each death benefit claim in respect of a Plan Participant.  When a claim for benefits is approved, Dorinco will transfer its percentage of each death benefit claim to MetLife.  MetLife will then pay the full amount of the claim.  If MetLife is financially unable to pay the portion of the claim, Dorinco will be obligated to pay the full amount of the claim directly.  Similarly, if Dorinco is financially unable to pay its designated percentage of a particular claim, MetLife will be obligated to pay the entire amount of the claim.  Neither MetLife nor Dorinco will charge the Plan any administrative fees, commissions or other consideration as a result of the participation of Dorinco.  This joint insurance arrangement does not apply to coverage for Retired Hourly Employees who were employed at Michigan Operations.
Section 8.  Your Rights
You have certain rights under the Retiree Dependent Insurance Plan and are entitled to certain information by law.  Be sure to review the section, section, section, section, section,   section, section, section, section, section and section at the end of this SPD.
Filing a Claim
Appealing a Denial of Claims
Fraud Against the Plan
Grievance Procedure
Your Legal Rights
Welfare Benefits
Companys Right to Amend, Modify, and Terminate the Plans
Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plan is Terminated
For More Information
Important Note
ERISA Information
Section 9.  End of Coverage
Your Retiree Dependent Life Insurance coverage ends on the earlier of:
If You choose to cancel your coverage, you must complete a new enrollment form and return it to the Plan.  If you cancel coverage, you may not re-enroll in the future.
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child no longer meets the eligibility requirements of the Plan, you must notify the Plan in order to receive a reduction in your monthly premium.
Section 10.  Converting to an Individual Policy
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child loses coverage because:
their coverage may be converted to an individual non-term policy through MetLife, Inc. without having to prove insurability.  (In the case of minor children, the parent or legal guardian may act on their behalf.)
 
101
 
 
If your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent child loses coverage under the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan because Dow has cancelled the dependent life coverage under the group policy with MetLife, or Dow has amended the eligibility requirements of the Plan to exclude you or your dependents from eligibility under the Plan, you may convert coverage to an individual non-term MetLife policy for your Dependent; provided you have been enrolled in coverage for your Dependent  under the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan for at least 5 years immediately prior to the date the MetLife group coverage  for our Dependent ended.  The amount that may be converted is limited to the lesser of:
A conversion application must be filed within 31 days of loss of coverage.  Your Spouse of Record/Domestic Partner of Record or Dependent childs guardian should contact the Dow Retiree Service Center to obtain a form for converting the coverage.   Once the form has been obtained, he or she should contact the MetLife Conversion Group at 1-877- 275-6387.  You are responsible for initiating the conversion process within the appropriate timeframes.  
The cost of this individual coverage will probably be significantly higher than the group plan.  Although not required, completing and submitting a statement of health form may help reduce the cost.
Section 11.   Filing a Claim
See of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 12.  Appealing a Denial of Claim
See of this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
Section 13.  Fraud Against the Plan
Any Plan Participant who intentionally misrepresents information to the Plan or knowingly misinforms, deceives or misleads the Plan or knowingly withholds relevant information may have his/her coverage cancelled retroactively to the date deemed appropriate by the Plan Administrator.  Further, such Plan Participant may be required to reimburse the Plan for Claims paid by the Plan.  The employer may determine that termination of employment is appropriate and the employer and/or the Plan may choose to puruse civil and/or criminal action.  The Plan Administrator may determine that the Participant is no longer eligible for coverage under the Plan because of his or her actions.
Section 14.  Grievance Procedure
If you want to appeal the denial of a claim for benefits, see of  this SPD.
Claims Procedures Appendix
If you feel that anyone is discriminating against you for exercising your rights under these  Plans, or if you feel that someone has interfered with the attainment of any right to which you feel you are entitled under these  Plans, or if you you feel that the Plan Administrator has denied you any right you feel that you have under these Plans, you must notify the Plan Administrator (listed in the  section of this SPD) in writing within 120 days of the date of the alleged wrongdoing.  The Plan Administrator will investigate the allegation and respond to you in writing within 120 days.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation has merit, the Plan Administrator will either correct the wrong (if it was the Plan which did the wrong), or will make a recommendation to the Plan Sponsor or Participating Employer if any of them have been alleged to be responsible for the wrongdoing.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation is without merit, you may appeal the Plan Administrators decision.   You must submit written notice of your appeal to the Plan Administrator within 60 days of receipt of the Plan Administrators decision.  Your appeal will be reviewed and you will receive a written response within 60 days, unless special circumstances require an extension of time.  (The Plan Administrator will give you written notice and reason for the extension.)  In no event should the decision take longer than 120 days after receipt of your appeal.  If you are not satisfied with the Plan Administrators response to your appeal, you may file suit in court.  
ERISA Information
If you file a lawsuit, you
 
102
 
must do so within 120 days from the date of the Plan Administrators written response to your appeal.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
Section 15.  Your Legal Rights
When you are a Participant in the Retiree Company-Paid, Retiree Optional or Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plans, you are entitled to certain rights and protections under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).  This law requires that all Plan Participants must be able to:
In addition to creating rights for you and all other Plan Participants, ERISA imposes duties on the people who are responsible for operating an employee benefit plan.  The people who operate the Plans, called fiduciaries of the Plans, have a duty to act prudently and in the interest of you and other Plan Participants and beneficiaries.
No one, including your employer or any other person, may discharge you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a Plan benefit, or from exercising your rights under ERISA. If you have a claim for benefits that is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules.
Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the legal rights described above.  For instance, if you request materials from one of the Plans and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a federal court.  In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Administrator.  If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you must file a written appeal within the time period specified in the Plans Claims Procedures.  Failure to comply with the Plans claims procedures may significantly jeopardize your rights to benefits.  If you are not satisfied with the final appellate decision, you may file suit in  Federal court.  The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees.  If you are successful the court may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and fees.  If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds your claim is frivolous. 
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Claims Administrators or the Plan Administrators final written decision (or the deadline the Claims Administrator or Plan Administrator had to notify you of a decision).  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.  
If it should happen that plan fiduciaries misuse one of the Plans money, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a Federal court.
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the alleged misuse.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
If you feel that anyone is discriminating against you for exercising your rights under this benefit plan, or if you feel that someone has interfered with the attainment of any right to which you feel you are entitled under any of the Plans, you must notify the Plan Administrator listed in the ERISA Information section of this SPD in writing within 120 days of the date of the alleged wrongdoing.  The Plan Administrator will investigate the allegation and respond to you in writing within 120 days.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation has merit, the Plan Administrator will either correct the wrong, if it was the Plan which did the wrong, or will make a recommendation to the Plan Sponsor or Participating Employer if any of them have been alleged to be responsible for the wrongdoing.  If the Plan Administrator determines that your allegation is without merit, you may appeal the Plan Administrators decision.   You must submit written notice of your appeal to the Plan Administrator within 60 days of receipt of the Plan Administrators decision.  Your appeal will be reviewed and you will receive a written response within 60 days.  If you are not satisfied with the Plan Administrators response to your appeal, you may file suit in Federal court.  
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Plan Administrators written response to your appeal.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
 
103
 
If you have any questions about the Program, you should contact the Plan Administrator.  If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, you should contact the nearest  Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C.  20210. You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
 
Section 16.   Plan Administrators Discretion
 
 
The Plan Administrator is a fiduciary to the Programs.  Except for the duties reserved to the Claims Administrator, the Plan Administrator has the full and complete discretion to interpret and construe all of the provisions of the Programs.  Such interpretation of the provisions of the Programs shall be final, conclusive, and binding.  Except for the duties reserved to the Claims Administrator, the Plan Administrator also has the full and complete discretion to make findings of fact.  The Plan Administrator has the full authority to apply those findings of fact to the provisions of the Programs.  All findings of fact made by the Plan Administrator shall be final, conclusive and binding.  For a detailed description of the Plan Administrators authority, see the Plan Document for the applicable Program.
 
Section 17.  Welfare Benefits
Welfare benefits, such as the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan, Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan and Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan, are not required to be guaranteed by a government agency.
Section 18.  Amendment, Modification, or Termination of the Programs
The Company reserves the right to amend, modify, or terminate the Programs at any time at its sole discretion.   The procedures for amending, modifying or terminating the Programs are contained in the Plan Document for the respective Program.
  Any amendment of, modification to, or termination of the Plan, must be reviewed by an attorney in the Companys Legal Department and the Plan Administrator before it is adopted by the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources or his or her delegate.
Procedure for Amendment, Modification, or Termination of Plan
.
Section 19.  Disposition of Plan Assets if the Plans are Terminated
The Company may terminate any of the Plans at any time at its sole discretion.   If the Company terminates a Plan, the assets of the Plan, if any, shall not be used by the Company, but may be used in any of the following ways:
Section 20.  Class Action Lawsuits
Legal actions against the Plan must be filed in U.S. federal court.  Class action lawsuits must be filed either 1) in the jurisdiction in which the Plan is administered (Michigan) or 2) the jurisdiction in the United States of America where the largest number of putative members of the class action reside.  This provision does not waive the requirement to exhaust administrative remedies before the filing of a lawsuit.
 
 
104
 
Section 21.  For More Information
If you have questions,  contact the Retiree Service Center, The Dow Chemical Company, Employee Development Center, Midland, Michigan  48674; Phone (800) 344-0661.
Section 22.  Important Note
 
 
 
105
 
 
106
 
 
 
107
 
 
 
108
 
 
109
 
You Must File a Claim in Accordance with These Claims Procedures
A  Claim is a request by a claimant for a or an .  There are two kinds of Claims:
written
Plan benefit
Eligibility Determination
A is a request for benefits covered under the Plan.
Claim for Plan Benefits
An is a kind of Claim.  It is a request for a determination as to whether a claimant is eligible to be a Participant or covered Dependent under the Plan.
Eligibility Determination
You must follow the claims procedures for either , whichever applies to your situation.   See applicable sections below entitled and
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
or CLAIMS FOR AN ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATION
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
CLAIMS FOR ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS.
Who Will Decide Whether to Approve or Deny My Claim?
 
The Program has more than one Claims Administrator.  Each of the Claims Administrators is a named fiduciary of the Program with respect to the respective types of Claims that they process.
 
Claims for an Eligibility Determination:  The initial determination is made by the  the Initial Claims Reviewer.  .  The Initial Claims Reviewer is the U.S. health and Welfare Leader for The Dow Chemical Company or his delegate. If you appeal, the appellate decision is made by the  the Appeals Administrator.   The Appeals Administrator is the Global Director of Benefits for The Dow Chemical Company.
Claims for a Plan Benefit:  The initial determination is made by the Initial Claims Reviewer.  The Initial Claims Reviewer is MetLife.  If you appeal, the appellate decision is made by  the Appeals Administrator.   The Appeals Administrator is MetLife.
Authority of the Administrators and Your Rights Under ERISA
The Claims Administrators have the full, complete, and final discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to make findings of fact in order to carry out their respective Claims decision-making responsibilities.
 
Interpretations and claims decisions by the Claims Administrators are final and binding on Participants .   If you are not satisfied with the Appeals Administrators final appellate decision, you may file a civil action against the Plan under s. 502 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) in a federal court.  
(except to the extent the Initial Claims Reviewer is subject to review by the Appeals Administrator)
If you file a lawsuit, you must do so within 120 days from the date of the Appeal Administrators final written decision.  Failure to file a lawsuit within the 120 day period will result in your waiver of your right to file a lawsuit.
An Authorized Representative May Act on Your Behalf
An Authorized Representative may submit a Claim on behalf of a Plan Participant.  The Plan will recognize a person as a Plan Participants Authorized Representative if such person submits a notarized writing signed by the Participant stating that the Authorized Representative is authorized to act on behalf of such Participant.  A court order stating that a person is authorized to submit Claims on behalf of a Participant will also be recognized by the Plan.
 
110
 
CLAIMS FOR PLAN BENEFITS
Information Required In Order to Be a Claim:
For Claims that are requests for Plan benefits, the claimant must call  the Retiree Service Center at (800) 344-0661 to report the death.   The Dow Benefits Center will contact MetLife on your behalf and you will receive the appropriate Claimant Statement forms and instructions directly from MetLife.  A certified death certificate must be provided to MetLife, along with the completed Claimant Statement, to disburse the life insurance proceeds.
CLAIMS FOR DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY
Information Required In Order to Be a Claim:
For Claims that are requests for , the Claims must be in writing and contain the following information:
Eligibility Determinations
must be filed with:
Claims for Eligibility Determinations
U.S. Health and Welfare Leader
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Initial Claims Reviewer for the life insurance plans of The Dow Chemical Company and certain of its subsidiaries. (Eligibility Determination)
INITIAL DETERMINATIONS
If you submit a or a to the applicable Initial Claims Reviewer,  the applicable Initial Claims Reviewer will review your Claim and you notify you of its decision to approve or deny your Claim.  Such notification will be provided to you in writing within a reasonable period, not to exceed 90 days of the date you submitted your claim; except that under special circumstances, the Initial Claims Reviewer may have up to an additional 90 days to provide you such written notification.  If the Initial Claims Reviewer needs such an extension, it will notify you prior to the expiration of the initial 90 day period, state the reason why such an extension is needed, and indicate when it will make its determination. If the applicable Initial Claims Reviewer denies the Claim, the written notification of the Claims decision will state the reason(s) why the Claim was denied and refer to the pertinent Plan provision(s). If the Claim was denied because you did not file a complete Claim or because the Initial Claims Reviewer needed additional information, the Claims decision will state that as the reason for denying the Claim and will explain why such information was necessary.
Claim for Plan Benefits
Claim for Eligibility Determination
APPEALING THE INITIAL DETERMINATION
If the applicable Initial Claims Reviewer has denied your or , you may appeal the decision.  If you appeal the Initial Claims Reviewers decision, you must do so in writing within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Claims Reviewers determination, assuming that there are no extenuating circumstances, as determined by the applicable Initial Claims Reviewer.  Your written appeal must include the following information:
Claim for Plan Benefits
Claim for Eligibility Determination
 
111
 
Send appeals of to:
Eligibility Determinations
Global Director of Benefits
The Dow Chemical Company
Employee Development Center
Midland, MI  48674
Attention: Appeals Administrator for the life insurance plans of The Dow Chemical Company and
   certain of its subsidiaries. (Appeal of Eligibility Determination)
Send appeals of benefit denials to:
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
Group Life Claims
Oneida County Industrial Park
Utica, NY  13504-6115
Attention: Claims Administrator for the life insurance plans of The Dow Chemical Company and
    certain of its subsidiaries. (Appellate Review)
You may submit any additional information to the applicable Administrator when you submit your request for appeal.  You may also request that the Administrator provide you copies of documents, records and other information that is relevant to your Claim, as determined by the applicable Administrator under applicable federal regulations.  Your request must be in writing.  Such information will be provided at no cost to you.
After the applicable Appeals Administrator receives your written request to appeal the initial determination, the Appeals Administrator will review your Claim.  Deference will not be given to the initial adverse decision, and the appellate reviewer will look at the Claim anew.  The person who will review your appeal will not be the same person as the person who made the initial decision to deny the Claim.  In addition, the person who is reviewing the appeal will not be a subordinate who reports to the person who made the initial decision to deny the Claim.  The Appeals Administrator will notify you in writing of its final decision.  Such notification will be provided within a reasonable period, not to exceed 60 days of the written request for appellate review, except that under special circumstances, the Appeals Administrator may have up to an additional 60 days to provide written notification of the final decision.  If the Appeals Administrator needs such an extension, it will notify you prior to the expiration of the initial 60 day period, state the reason why such an extension is needed, and indicate when it will make its determination.  If the Appeals Administrator determines that it does not have sufficient information to make a decision on the Claim prior to the expiration of the initial 60 day period, it will notify you.  It will describe any additional material or information necessary to submit to the Plan, and provide you with the deadline for submitting such information.  The initial 60 day time period for the Appeals Administrator to make a final written decision, plus the 60 day extension period (if applicable) are tolled from the date the notification of insufficiency is sent to you until the date on which it receives your response.  (Tolled means the clock or time is stopped or suspended.  In other words, the deadline for the Appeals Administrator to make its decision is put on hold until it receives the requested information).  The tolling period ends when the Appeals Administrator receives your response, regardless of the adequacy of your response.
If the Appeals Administrator has determined to that its final decision is to deny your Claim, the written notification of the decision will state the reason(s) for the denial and refer to the pertinent Plan provision(s).
 
112
 
 
 
See Plan Document for additional definitions.  A pronoun or adjective in the masculine gender includes the feminine gender, and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
or means that you are performing all of the usual and customary duties of your job with the Participating Employer on a Full Time or Less-Than Full Time basis.  This must be done at:
Actively at Work
Active Work
You will be deemed to be Actively at Work during weekends or Participating Employer approved vacations, holidays or business closures if you were Actively at Work on the last scheduled work day preceding such time off.
means either the Plan Administrator or the Claims Administrator.
"Administrator"
with respect to reviewing an adverse Claim for Benefits, means MetLife.  The Appeals Administrator for reviewing an adverse Claim for an Eligibility Determination is the Global Director of Benefits for The Dow Chemical Company.
Appeals Administrator
means an Employee who is represented by a collective bargaining unit that is recognized by the Company or Participating Employer.  Bargained-for Employee and Hourly Employee have the same meaning.
Bargained-for Employee
means a written request by a claimant for a plan benefit or a request by a claimant for an Eligibility Determination that contains at a minimum, the information described in the Claims Procedures Appendix of the applicable SPD.
"Claim"
means a Claim requesting a determination as to whether a claimant is eligible to be a Participant under a Plan.
"Claim for an Eligibility Determination"
means a Claim requesting that the Plan pay for benefits covered under a Plan.
"Claim for a Plan Benefit"
means either the Initial Claims Reviewer or the Appeals Administrator, depending on the context of the sentence in which the term is used.
"Claims Administrator"
 
means the Internal Revenue code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  Reference to any section or subsection of the Code includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation which amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
"Code"
means The Dow Chemical Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware.
"Company"
means a person who is a member of a Domestic Partnership.
Domestic Partner
means two people claiming to be "domestic partners" who meet all of the following requirements of paragraph A, or the requirements of paragraph B:
Domestic Partnership
A.
 
113
 
B.  
means a Participating Employer or collectively, Participating Employers, as determined by the context of the sentence in which it is used, as such is interpreted by the Plan Administrator or his delegee.
"Dow"
meansa person who:
Employee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The definition of Employee does not include an individual who performs services for the benefit of a Participating Employer if his compensation is paid by an entity or source other than the Companys U.S. Payroll Department or another Participating Employers U.S. Payroll Department.  Further, the definition of Employee does not include any individual who is characterized by the Participating Employer as an independent contractor, contingent worker, consultant, contractor, or similar term.  These individuals are not Employees (with a capital E) for purposes of the Plan even if such an individual is determined by a court or regulatory agency to be a common law employee of a Participating Employer.
 
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
"ERISA"
Employee means an Employee who has been classified by a Participating Employer as having full-time status.
Full-Time
means an Employee who is represented by a collective bargaining unit that is recognized by the Company or Participating Employer.  Bargained-for Employee and Hourly Employee have the same meaning.
Hourly Employee
with respect to deciding Claims for Plan Benefits is MetLife.  With respect to deciding a Claim for an Eligibility Determination, the Initial Claims Reviewer is the U.S. Health and Welfare Leader.
Initial Claims Reviewer
Employee means an Employee who has been approved by a Participating Employer to work 20 to 39 hours per week and is classified by a Participating Employer as having Less-Than-Full-Time Status.
 Less-Than-Full-Time
means that a Participating Employer has made a determination that an Employee is permanently relocated to a particular country, and the Employee has accepted such determination.  For example, a Malaysian national is Localized to the U.S. when a
Localized
 
114
 
Participating Employer has determined that such Employee is permanently relocated to the U.S., and such Employee has accepted such determination.
or means a legally valid marriage between a man and a woman recognized by the state in which the man and the woman reside.
"Married"
"Marriage"
means Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
MetLife
means the Company or any other corporation or business entity the Company authorizes to participate in the Program with respect to its Employees.
"Participating Employer"
means either the Retiree Company-Paid Life Insurance Plan (for Salaried Retirees and Retirees of Certain Hourly Groups), which is a component of The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507); or the Retiree Optional Life Insurance Plan  or the Retiree Dependent Life Insurance Plan, which are components of The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515); whichever the case may be.
Plan
means each of the Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, the Global Director of Benefits, the U.S. Health and Welfare Leader, and such other person, group of persons or entity  which may be designated by the Plan Sponsor in accordance with the Plan Document.
Plan Administrator
means either the plan document for The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program or The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program, whichever the case may be.
"Plan Document"
means either The Dow Chemical Company Group Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #507) or The Dow Chemical Company Employee-Paid and Dependent Life Insurance Program (ERISA Plan #515), whichever the case may be.
"Program"
means the 12-consecutive-month period ending each December 31.
"Program Year"
Regular
Employee
A regular  Employee is an Employee who is classified by the Employer as regular.
means when an active Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years  of Service terminates employment with a Participating Employer who is also a Retiree.
"Retire" or "Retirement"
, except as provided below in this paragraph, means an Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service when his employment terminated with a Participating Employer and is eligible to receive a pension under the Dow Employees Pension Plan and was a Participant in the Program on the day preceding Retirement.  An Employee who is receiving, or has received a benefit, under the 1993 Special Separation Payment Plan who is 50 or older at the time he leaves active employment with Dow, regardless of years of Service, is also a "Retiree".
"Retiree"
except as provided below in this paragraph, also means an Employee who is age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service when his employment terminated with a Participating Employer, terminated employment with Union Carbide Corporation or its subsidiary that is a Participating Employer on or after February 6, 2003, is eligible to receive a pension under the terms of the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, and was a Participant in the Program on the day preceding termination of employment with the Participating Employer.
Retiree,
also means an Employee who was enrolled in The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan, terminated employment with Dow Chemical Canada Inc. on or after October 1, 2003 at age 50 or older with 10 or more years of Service, is eligible to receive a pension from the pension plan sponsored by Dow Chemical Canada Inc., and signed a waiver of all his rights under The Dow Chemical Company Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement between himself and The Dow Chemical Company.
Retiree
means an individual who is not represented by a collective bargaining unit.
"Salaried"
 
115
 
with respect to a Retiree who is eligible to receive a pension from the Dow Employees Pension Plan, "Service" means either Eligibility Service" or "Credited Service" recognized under the Dow Employees' Pension Plan, whichever is greater.   With respect to a Retiree who is eligible to receive a pension from the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, means Eligibility Service or Credited Service recognized under the Union Carbide Employees Pension Plan, whichever is greater.  An exception is made with respect to Employees of the Dow Mid-Michigan Business Process Service Center (BPSC) and Business Services, LLC.  See Plan Document for details.
Service
Service
means a person who is Married to the Employee.
"Spouse"
means the Summary Plan Description.
SPD
 
 
116
 


