FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20110909162424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
September 9, 2011
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
            
Section 8 - Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Dow Chemical Company is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K to provide a Corporate Profile and selected segment information that reflect changes in the Company's reportable segments related to recent changes in the Company's organizational structure.
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Corporate Profile and selected segment information, adjusted to reflect changes in the Company's reportable segments related to recent changes in the organizational structure of The Dow Chemical Company.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
Registrant
Date: September 9, 2011
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Beginning in the third quarter of 2011, The Dow Chemical Company (Dow or the Company) is changing its reportable segments due to recent changes in the Company's organization. Following are the new segments along with key changes:
Electronic and Functional Materials
Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions
Agricultural Sciences
Performance Materials
Performance Plastics
Feedstocks and Energy
The reporting changes are reflected in the following Corporate Profile and selected segment information for 2010 and 2011 by quarter, as if the changes had taken place on January 1, 2010.
Corporate Profile
Dow combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to passionately innovate what is essential to human progress. The Company connects chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help address many of the world's most challenging problems such as the need for clean water, renewable energy generation and conservation, and increasing agricultural productivity. Dow's diversified industry-leading portfolio of specialty chemical, advanced materials, agrosciences and plastics businesses deliver a broad range of technology-based products and solutions to customers in approximately 160 countries and in high growth sectors such as electronics, water, energy, coatings and agriculture. In 2010, Dow had annual sales of $53.7 billion and employed approximately 50,000 people worldwide. The Company's more than 5,000 products are manufactured at 188 sites in 35 countries across the globe. The following descriptions of the Company's six operating segments include a representative listing of products for each business.
ELECTRONIC AND FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS
Applications:
chemical mechanical planarization pads and slurries
chemical processing aids and intermediates 
electronic displays
food and pharmaceutical processing and ingredients
home and personal care ingredients
hygiene and infection control
photolithography materials
printed circuit board materials
process and materials preservation
semiconductor packaging, connectors and industrial finishing
Dow Electronic Materials
is a leading global supplier of materials for chemical mechanical planarization (CMP); materials used in the production of electronic displays, including brightness films, diffusers, metalorganic light emitting diode (LED) precursors and organic light emitting diode (OLED) materials; products and technologies that drive leading edge semiconductor design; materials used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards; and integrated metallization processes critical for interconnection, corrosion resistance, metal finishing and decorative applications. These enabling materials are found in applications such as consumer electronics, flat panel displays and telecommunications. Dow Electronic Materials includes Display Technologies, Growth Technologies, Interconnect Technologies and Semiconductor Technologies.
Functional Materials
is a portfolio of businesses characterized by a vast global footprint, a broad array of unique chemistries, multi-functional ingredients and technology capabilities, combined with key positions in the pharmaceuticals; food, home and personal care; and industrial specialty industries. These technology capabilities and market platforms enable the businesses to develop innovative solutions that address modern societal needs for clean water and air; material preservation; and improved health care, disease prevention, nutrition and wellness. Functional Materials includes Dow Home and Personal Care, Dow Microbial Control, Dow Wolff Cellulosics and Performance Additives.
The Electronic and Functional Materials segment also includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company.
COATINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE SOLUTIONS
Applications:
building and construction, insulation and weatherization, roofing membrane systems, adhesives and sealants
cellulosic-based construction additives
construction materials (vinyl siding, vinyl windows, vinyl fencing) 
flexible and rigid packaging
general mortars and concrete, cement modifiers and plasters, tile adhesives and grouts
house and traffic paints
metal coatings
pipeline coatings
transportation and corrosion protection
water purification
Dow Building and Construction
is comprised of three global businesses - Dow Building Solutions, Dow Construction Chemicals and Dow Solar Solutions - that offer extensive lines of industry-leading insulation, housewrap, sealant and adhesive products and systems, as well as construction chemical solutions and building-integrated photovoltaics. Through its strong sales support, customer service and technical expertise, Dow Building Solutions provides meaningful solutions for improving the energy efficiency in homes and buildings today, while also
addressing the industry's emerging needs and demands. Dow Construction Chemicals provides solutions for increased durability, greater water resistance and lower systems costs. As a leader in insulation solutions, the business' products help curb escalating utility bills, reduce a building's carbon footprint and provide a more comfortable indoor environment. Dow Solar Solutions is focused on developing the next generation of solar energy products to help solve global energy challenges.
Dow Coating Materials
is the largest coatings supplier in the world and a premier supplier of raw materials for architectural paints and industrial coatings. The business manufactures and delivers solutions that leverage high quality, technologically advanced product offerings for paint and coatings. The business also offers technologies used in industrial coatings applications, including packaging, pipelines, wood, automotive, marine, maintenance and protective industries. The business is also the leader in the conversion of solvent to water-based technologies, which enable customers to offer more environmentally friendly products, including low volatile organic compound (VOC) paints and other sustainable coatings.
Dow Water and Process Solutions
is a leading water purification and separation technology supplier, developing cost-effective technologies for water purification, desalination and separation solutions for specialty applications that make water safer, cleaner and more available; food better tasting; and pharmaceuticals more effective.
The
Performance Monomers
business produces specialty monomer products that are sold externally as well as consumed internally as building blocks used in downstream polymer businesses. The business' products are used in several applications, including cleaning materials, personal care products, paints, coatings and inks.
The Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions segment also includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company.
AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
Applications
: agricultural seeds, traits (genes) and oils
control of weeds, insects and plant diseases for agriculture and pest management
Dow AgroSciences
is a global leader in providing agricultural and plant biotechnology products, pest management solutions and healthy oils. The business invents, develops, manufactures and markets products for use in agriculture, industrial and commercial pest management, and food service.
herbicide; LORSBAN insecticides; MILESTONE herbicide; MUSTANG herbicide; MYCOGEN seeds; NEXERA canola and sunflower seeds; PHYTOGEN cottonseeds; PROFUME gas fumigant; RENZE seeds; SENTRICON termite colony elimination system; SIMPLICITY herbicide; STARANE herbicide; TELONE soil fumigant; TORDON herbicide; TRACER NATURALYTE insect control; TRIUMPH seed; VIKANE structural fumigant; WIDESTRIKE insect protection
The Agricultural Sciences segment also includes the results of the AgroFresh business, providing a portfolio of products used for maintaining the freshness of fruits, vegetables and flowers.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS
Applications
: adhesives
aircraft and runway deicing fluids
appliances
automotive interiors, exteriors, under-the-hood and body engineered systems
bedding
caps and closures 
carpeting
chelating agents
chemical intermediates
civil engineering
cleaning products
composites
construction
corrosion inhibitors
detergents, cleaners and fabric softeners
electrical castings, potting and encapsulation and tooling 
electrical laminates
electronics
flavors and fragrances
flooring
footwear
furniture
gas treatment
gaskets and sealing components
heat transfer fluids
home and office furnishings
industrial coatings
manufactured housing and modular construction
mattresses
medical equipment
metalworking fluids
mining
packaging
pipe treatment
pressure sensitive adhesives
sealants
surfactants
transportation
vinyl exteriors
waterproofing membranes
The
Amines
business is the world's largest producer of ethanolamines and a leading global provider of ethyleneamines, isopropanolamines and chelants. These products are used in a wide variety of applications, including lube oil additives, wet-strength resins, metalworking fluids, liquid detergents, personal care products, and herbicide and fungicide formulations for the agricultural industry.
The
Chlorinated Organics
business is the world's largest supplier of chlorinated organic products and services for intermediates, which are used in the production of fluoropolymers, refrigerants, methyl cellulose, quaternary ammonium compounds and silicones; and solvents, which are used as process agents in chemicals manufacturing, surface preparation, dry cleaning and pharmaceuticals.
Dow Automotive Systems
is a leading global provider of technology-driven solutions that meet consumer demands for vehicles that are safer, stronger, quieter, lighter, and more comfortable and stylish. The business provides adhesives, glass bonding systems, emissions control technology, performance plastics, polyurethane products and systems, films, fluids and acoustical management solutions to original equipment manufacturers and tier, aftermarket and commercial transportation customers. With offices and application development centers around the world, Dow Automotive Systems provides materials science expertise and comprehensive technical capabilities to its customers worldwide.
Dow Formulated Systems
manufactures and markets custom formulated, rigid and semi-rigid, flexible, integral skin and microcellular polyurethane foams and systems and tailor-made epoxy solutions and systems. These products are used in a broad range of applications, including appliances, athletic equipment, automotive, bedding, construction, decorative molding, furniture, shoe soles and wind turbines.
VORACOR rigid foam systems; VORATHERM polyisocyanurate; VORATRON electrical encapsulation systems
Dow Plastic Additives
is a worldwide supplier of additives and solutions used in a large variety of applications ranging from construction materials and packaging containers to consumer appliances and electronics, business machines and automotive parts. These additives and solutions improve impact strength, clarity, chemical and heat resistance, weather resistance and color retention properties of base polymers. They also aid in the processing of plastics by increasing melt strength, heat stability and lubricity, thereby enabling plastics processors to achieve greater output rates and increased efficiency without loss of quality.
The
Epoxy
business is a supplier of epoxy resins and intermediates that serves a diverse array of end-markets and applications, including electrical laminates, civil engineering, composites, infrastructure and consumer goods. The business is one of the most vertically-integrated epoxy suppliers in the world. This position helps provide cost advantages and economies of scale across the value chain, as well as dependable product and service delivery around the globe.
The
Oxygenated Solvents
business is the world's largest producer of oxygenated solvents, with the leading position in butanol, E- and P-series glycol ethers, as well as several other products in its portfolio. The business offers the broadest range of solvents for servicing a diverse mix of end-use markets and applications, including paints and coatings, cleaning products, inks, electronics, pharmaceuticals, mining, personal care and other applications.
The
Polyglycols, Surfactants and Fluids
business is one of the world's leading suppliers of polyglycols and surfactants, with a broad range of products and technology and a proven record of performance and economy. The business also produces a broad line of lubricants, hydraulic fluids, aircraft deicing fluids and thermal fluids, with some of the most recognized brand names in the industry. Product applications include chemical processing, cleaning, heating, cooling, food and beverage processing, fuel additives, paints and coatings, pharmaceuticals and silicone surfactants.
The
Polyurethanes
business is a leading global producer of polyurethane raw materials. Dow's polyurethane products offer a broad range of solutions for flexible foam, rigid foam, coating, adhesive, sealant, and elastomer applications and are used in a variety of end-markets, including appliances, automotive, bedding, construction, electronics, flooring, footwear, furniture and packaging. The business is the leading global producer of propylene oxide (PO) and propylene glycol (PG) - offering PO via both a traditional process and a sustainable hydrogen peroxide to propylene oxide (HPPO) manufacturing technology, and a portfolio of PG products for a wide variety of applications.
The Performance Materials segment also includes the results of Dow Fiber Solutions, providing differentiated fibers and process improvements to the textile industry; Dow Haltermann, a provider of world-class contract manufacturing services to companies in the fine and specialty chemicals and polymers industries; Dow Oil and Gas, providing products for use in exploration and production, refining and gas processing, transportation, and fuel and lubricant performance; and SAFECHEM, a wholly owned subsidiary that manufactures closed-loop systems to manage the risks associated with chlorinated solvents. The segment also includes a portion of the results of the SCGDow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
Divestiture:
PERFORMANCE PLASTICS
Applications
: adhesives
agricultural films
appliances and appliance housings
automotive parts and trim
beverage bottles
bins, crates, pails and pallets
building and construction
coatings
consumer and durable goods 
consumer electronics
disposable diaper liners
fibers and nonwovens
food and specialty packaging
hoses and tubing
household and industrial bottles
housewares
hygiene and medical films
industrial and consumer films and foams
information technology
leather, textile, graphic arts and paper
oil tanks and road equipment
plastic pipe
processing aids for plastic production
tapes and labels
toys, playground equipment and recreational products
wire and cable insulation and jacketing materials for power utility and telecommunications
Dow Elastomers
offers a unique set of elastomer products for customers worldwide. The business is focused on delivering innovative solutions that allow for differentiated participation in multiple industries and applications. The business offers a broad range of performance elastomers and plastomers, specialty copolymers and synthetic rubber. Key applications include adhesives, automotive, building and construction, hygiene and medical, and consumer solutions.
Dow Electrical and Telecommunications
is a leading global provider of products, technology, solutions and expertise that set standards for reliability, longevity, efficiency, ease of installation and protection used by the power and telecommunications industries in the transmission, distribution and consumption of power, voice and data. Dow Electrical and Telecommunications collaborates with cable makers, other industry suppliers, utilities, municipalities, testing institutes and other organizations around the world to develop solutions and create mutual value that will sustain these industries for years to come.
Dow Packaging and Converting
is a portfolio of businesses that primarily manufacture sticking and bonding solutions and specialty films for a wide range of applications, including adhesive tapes and paper labels, flexible packaging, film substrates, industrial and consumer films and foams, leather, rigid packaging, and textile and imaging. These products are supported with market recognized best-in-class technical support and end-use application knowledge. Many of the businesses' water-borne technologies are well-positioned to support environmentally preferred applications.
protective films; TRYCITE polystyrene film; TYBRITE clear packaging film; TYMOR tie resins
The
Polyethylene
business is the world's leading supplier of polyethylene-based solutions through sustainable product differentiation. With multiple catalyst and process technologies, the business offers customers one of the industry's broadest ranges of polyethylene resins. With its industry-leading portfolio of product and technology solutions, the business primarily serves performance packaging and hygiene and medical end-markets.
The
Polypropylene
business is a major global polypropylene supplier that provides a broad range of products and solutions tailored to customer needs by leveraging Dow's leading manufacturing and application technology, research and product development expertise, extensive market knowledge and strong customer relationships.
The Performance Plastics segment also includes the results of the Plastics Licensing and Catalyst business. The segment also includes the results of Equipolymers and Univation Technologies, LLC (which licenses the UNIPOL polyethylene process and sells related catalysts, including metallocene catalysts), as well as a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the SCGDow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
Divestiture:
FEEDSTOCKS AND ENERGY
Applications
: agricultural products
alumina
automotive antifreeze and coolant systems
carpet and textiles
chemical processing
dry cleaning
household cleaners and plastic products
inks
metal cleaning
packaging, food and beverage containers
paints, coatings and adhesives
personal care products
petroleum refining
pharmaceuticals 
plastic pipe
polymer and chemical production
power
protective packaging
pulp and paper manufacturing
soaps and detergents
water treatment
The
Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl
business focuses on the production of chlorine for consumption by Dow's downstream derivative businesses, as well as production, marketing and supply of ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride monomer and caustic soda. These products are used for applications such as alumina production, pulp and paper manufacturing, soaps and detergents, and building and construction. Dow is the world's largest producer of both chlorine and caustic soda.
The
Energy
business supplies power, steam and other utilities, principally for use in Dow's global operations.
The
Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol
business is the world's largest producer of purified ethylene oxide, principally used in Dow's downstream performance derivatives. Dow is also a key supplier of ethylene glycol to MEGlobal, a 50:50 joint venture and a world leader in the manufacture and marketing of merchant monoethylene glycol and diethylene glycol. Ethylene glycol is used in polyester fiber, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) for food and beverage container applications, polyester film, and aircraft and runway deicers.
The
Hydrocarbons
business encompasses the procurement of natural gas liquids and crude oil-based raw materials, as well as the supply of monomers, principally for use in Dow's global operations. The business regularly sells its by-products and buys and sells products in order to balance regional production capabilities and derivative requirements. The business also sells products to certain Dow joint ventures. Dow is the world leader in the production of olefins and aromatics.
The Feedstocks and Energy segment also includes the results of Compaa Mega S.A., MEGlobal and a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the SCG-Dow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
Divestiture:
Corporate
includes the results of Ventures (which includes new business incubation platforms focused on identifying and pursuing new commercial opportunities); Venture Capital; non-business aligned technology licensing and catalyst activities; the Company's insurance operations and environmental operations; enterprise level mega project activities; and certain corporate overhead costs and cost recovery variances not allocated to the operating segments.
 Trademarks of The Dow Chemical Company (Dow) or an affiliated company of Dow.
Agromen is a trademark of Agromen Sementes Agricolas Ltda.
SmartStax is a trademark of Monsanto Technology LLC. SmartStax multi-event technology developed by Dow AgroSciences and Monsanto.
ZinClear is a trademark of Antaria Limited.


