FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20111012150738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On October 12, 2011, Jennifer M. Granholm tendered her resignation from the Board of Directors of The Dow Chemical ("Dow") effective immediately. The press release issued by Dow is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Dow Announces Jennifer Granholm's Resignation from Company's Board of Directors
The Dow Chemical Company (NYSE: DOW) today announced that Jennifer M. Granholm has resigned from its Board of Directors in order to pursue other opportunities.
MIDLAND, MICH.  October 12, 2011
"We would like to thank Governor Granholm for her service to our Company," said Andrew N. Liveris, Dow's chairman and chief executive officer. "While the tenure was brief, her experience, perspective and contributions were beneficial, and we wish her well in her new endeavors."
Granholm's resignation is effective immediately. For a complete list of Dow's board members, committee assignments and other corporate governance information, visit our Corporate Governance web site at www.dow.com.


