FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20111101162907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 1, 2011
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
            
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Dow Chemical Company (Dow or the Company) is filing this Current Report on Form 8K to reflect a change in reportable segments described below with respect to the financial information contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 18, 2011 (2010 Form 10K). In addition, a change to December 31, 2010 balance sheet amounts has been made to properly classify the current portion of "Deferred charges and other assets" of $349 million to "Other current assets." The information in this Current Report on Form 8K is not an amendment to or restatement of the 2010 Form 10K.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2011, The Dow Chemical Company (Dow or the Company) changed its reportable segments due to recent changes in the Company's organization. Following are the new segments along with key changes:
Electronic and Functional Materials
Formerly named Electronic and Specialty Materials
A portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company, moved to Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions
Dow Water and Process Solutions moved to Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions
Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions
Formerly named Coatings and Infrastructure
Includes Dow Water and Process Solutions previously aligned with Electronic and Specialty Materials
Includes Performance Monomers previously aligned with Performance Products
Includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation previously aligned with Electronic and Specialty Materials
Dow Adhesives and Functional Polymers moved to Performance Plastics
Agricultural Sciences
Formerly named Health and Agricultural Sciences
Performance Materials
Reflects the combination of segments formerly named Performance Systems and Performance Products
Includes Chlorinated Organics previously aligned with Chemicals and Energy
Performance Monomers moved to Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions
Dow Elastomers and Dow Wire and Cable moved to Performance Plastics
Performance Plastics
Formerly named Plastics
Includes Dow Adhesives and Functional Polymers previously aligned with Coatings and Infrastructure
Feedstocks and Energy
Reflects the combination of segments formerly named Chemicals and Energy and Hydrocarbons
Chlorinated Organics moved to Performance Materials
The following Items of the 2010 Form 10K have been presented to retrospectively reflect the change in reportable segments as described above, and are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8K:
No other Items of the 2010 Form 10K other than those identified above are being revised by this filing. Information in the 2010 Form 10K is generally stated as of December 31, 2010 and this filing does not reflect any subsequent information or events other than the change in reportable segments described above. Without limiting the foregoing, this filing does not purport to update Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in the 2010 Form 10K for any information, uncertainties, transactions, risks, events or trends occurring, or known to management. More current information is contained in the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011 and other filings with the SEC. This Current Report on Form 8K should be read in conjunction with the 2010 Form 10K and such Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q and other filings. The Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q and other filings contain information regarding events, developments and updates to certain expectations of the Company that have occurred since the filing of the 2010 Form 10K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
Registrant
Date: November 1, 2011
 

We consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 18, 2011 (November 1, 2011 as to the effects of the retrospective adjustments in Notes C, E, H, I and Z), relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of The Dow Chemical Company and subsidiaries (the Company), appearing in this Current Report on Form 8-K, in the following Registration Statements of The Dow Chemical Company:

The Dow Chemical Company:
Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) hereby consents to the use of ARPC's name and the reference to ARPC's reports in this Current Report on Form 8-K of The Dow Chemical Company, and the incorporation by reference thereof in the following Registration Statements of The Dow Chemical Company:

Table of Contents
 
THE COMPANY
The Dow Chemical Company was incorporated in 1947 under Delaware law and is the successor to a Michigan corporation, of the same name, organized in 1897. Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the terms Company or Dow as used herein mean The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. On April 1, 2009, the merger of Rohm and Haas Company (Rohm and Haas) with a subsidiary of the Company was completed, and Rohm and Haas became a wholly owned subsidiary of Dow.
Dow is a diversified, worldwide manufacturer and supplier of products used primarily as raw materials in the manufacture of customer products and services. The Company serves the following industries: appliance; automotive; agricultural; building and construction; chemical processing; electronics; furniture; housewares; oil and gas; packaging; paints, coatings and adhesives; personal care; pharmaceutical; processed foods; pulp and paper; textile and carpet; utilities; and water treatment.
The Companys principal executive offices are located at 2030 Dow Center, Midland, Michigan 48674, telephone 989-636-1000. Its Internet website address is
www.dow.com
. All of the Companys filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge through the Investor Relations page on this website, immediately upon filing.
BUSINESS AND PRODUCTS
Corporate Profile
Dow combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to passionately innovate what is essential to human progress. The Company connects chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help address many of the world's most challenging problems such as the need for clean water, renewable energy generation and conservation, and increasing agricultural productivity. Dow's diversified industry-leading portfolio of specialty chemical, advanced materials, agrosciences and plastics businesses deliver a broad range of technology-based products and solutions to customers in approximately
160
 countries and in high growth sectors such as electronics, water, energy, coatings and agriculture. In
2010
, Dow had annual sales of
$53.7 billion
and employed approximately
50,000
people worldwide. The Company's more than
5,000
products are manufactured at 188 sites in
35
 countries across the globe. The following descriptions of the Company's six operating segments include a representative listing of products for each business.
ELECTRONIC AND FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS
Applications:
chemical mechanical planarization pads and slurries
chemical processing aids and intermediates 
electronic displays
food and pharmaceutical processing and ingredients
home and personal care ingredients
hygiene and infection control
photolithography materials
printed circuit board materials
process and materials preservation
semiconductor packaging, connectors and industrial finishing
Dow Electronic Materials
is a leading global supplier of materials for chemical mechanical planarization (CMP); materials used in the production of electronic displays, including brightness films, diffusers, metalorganic light emitting diode (LED) precursors and organic light emitting diode (OLED) materials; products and technologies that drive leading edge semiconductor design; materials used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards; and integrated metallization processes critical for interconnection, corrosion resistance, metal finishing and decorative applications. These enabling materials are found in applications such as consumer electronics, flat panel displays and telecommunications. Dow Electronic Materials includes Display Technologies, Growth Technologies, Interconnect Technologies and Semiconductor Technologies.
1
Table of Contents
Functional Materials
is a portfolio of businesses characterized by a vast global footprint, a broad array of unique chemistries, multi-functional ingredients and technology capabilities, combined with key positions in the pharmaceuticals; food, home and personal care; and industrial specialty industries. These technology capabilities and market platforms enable the businesses to develop innovative solutions that address modern societal needs for clean water and air; material preservation; and improved health care, disease prevention, nutrition and wellness. Functional Materials includes Dow Home and Personal Care, Dow Microbial Control, Dow Wolff Cellulosics and Performance Additives.
The Electronic and Functional Materials segment also includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company.
COATINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE SOLUTIONS
Applications:
building and construction, insulation and weatherization, roofing membrane systems, adhesives and sealants
cellulosic-based construction additives
construction materials (vinyl siding, vinyl windows, vinyl fencing) 
flexible and rigid packaging
general mortars and concrete, cement modifiers and plasters, tile adhesives and grouts
house and traffic paints
metal coatings
pipeline coatings
transportation and corrosion protection
water purification
Dow Building and Construction
is comprised of three global businesses - Dow Building Solutions, Dow Construction Chemicals and Dow Solar Solutions - that offer extensive lines of industry-leading insulation, housewrap, sealant and adhesive products and systems, as well as construction chemical solutions and building-integrated photovoltaics. Through its strong sales support, customer service and technical expertise, Dow Building Solutions provides meaningful solutions for improving the energy efficiency in homes and buildings today, while also addressing the industry's emerging needs and demands. Dow Construction Chemicals provides solutions for increased durability, greater water resistance and lower systems costs. As a leader in insulation solutions, the business' products help curb escalating utility bills, reduce a building's carbon footprint and provide a more comfortable indoor environment. Dow Solar Solutions is focused on developing the next generation of solar energy products to help solve global energy challenges.
Dow Coating Materials
is the largest coatings supplier in the world and a premier supplier of raw materials for architectural paints and industrial coatings. The business manufactures and delivers solutions that leverage high quality, technologically advanced product offerings for paint and coatings. The business also offers technologies used in industrial coatings applications, including packaging, pipelines, wood, automotive, marine, maintenance and protective industries. The business is also the leader in the conversion of solvent to water-based technologies, which enable customers to offer more environmentally friendly products, including low volatile organic compound (VOC) paints and other sustainable coatings.
2
Table of Contents
Dow Water and Process Solutions
is a leading water purification and separation technology supplier, developing cost-effective technologies for water purification, desalination and separation solutions for specialty applications that make water safer, cleaner and more available; food better tasting; and pharmaceuticals more effective.
The
Performance Monomers
business produces specialty monomer products that are sold externally as well as consumed internally as building blocks used in downstream polymer businesses. The business' products are used in several applications, including cleaning materials, personal care products, paints, coatings and inks.
The Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions segment also includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company.
AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
Applications
: agricultural seeds, traits (genes) and oils
control of weeds, insects and plant diseases for agriculture and pest management
Dow AgroSciences
is a global leader in providing agricultural and plant biotechnology products, pest management solutions and healthy oils. The business invents, develops, manufactures and markets products for use in agriculture, industrial and commercial pest management, and food service.
The Agricultural Sciences segment also includes the results of the AgroFresh business, providing a portfolio of products used for maintaining the freshness of fruits, vegetables and flowers.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS
Applications
: adhesives
aircraft and runway deicing fluids
appliances
automotive interiors, exteriors, under-the-hood and body engineered systems
bedding
caps and closures 
carpeting
chelating agents
chemical intermediates
civil engineering
cleaning products
composites
construction
corrosion inhibitors
detergents, cleaners and fabric softeners
electrical castings, potting and encapsulation and tooling 
electrical laminates
electronics
flavors and fragrances
flooring
footwear
furniture
gas treatment
gaskets and sealing components
heat transfer fluids
home and office furnishings
industrial coatings
manufactured housing and modular construction
mattresses
medical equipment
metalworking fluids
mining
packaging
pipe treatment
pressure sensitive adhesives
sealants
surfactants
transportation
vinyl exteriors
waterproofing membranes
3
Table of Contents
The
Amines
business is the world's largest producer of ethanolamines and a leading global provider of ethyleneamines, isopropanolamines and chelants. These products are used in a wide variety of applications, including lube oil additives, wet-strength resins, metalworking fluids, liquid detergents, personal care products, and herbicide and fungicide formulations for the agricultural industry.
The
Chlorinated Organics
business is the world's largest supplier of chlorinated organic products and services for intermediates, which are used in the production of fluoropolymers, refrigerants, methyl cellulose, quaternary ammonium compounds and silicones; and solvents, which are used as process agents in chemicals manufacturing, surface preparation, dry cleaning and pharmaceuticals.
Dow Automotive Systems
is a leading global provider of technology-driven solutions that meet consumer demands for vehicles that are safer, stronger, quieter, lighter, and more comfortable and stylish. The business provides adhesives, glass bonding systems, emissions control technology, performance plastics, polyurethane products and systems, films, fluids and acoustical management solutions to original equipment manufacturers and tier, aftermarket and commercial transportation customers. With offices and application development centers around the world, Dow Automotive Systems provides materials science expertise and comprehensive technical capabilities to its customers worldwide.
Dow Formulated Systems
manufactures and markets custom formulated, rigid and semi-rigid, flexible, integral skin and microcellular polyurethane foams and systems and tailor-made epoxy solutions and systems. These products are used in a broad range of applications, including appliances, athletic equipment, automotive, bedding, construction, decorative molding, furniture, shoe soles and wind turbines.
Dow Plastic Additives
is a worldwide supplier of additives and solutions used in a large variety of applications ranging from construction materials and packaging containers to consumer appliances and electronics, business machines and automotive parts. These additives and solutions improve impact strength, clarity, chemical and heat resistance, weather resistance and color retention properties of base polymers. They also aid in the processing of plastics by increasing melt strength, heat stability and lubricity, thereby enabling plastics processors to achieve greater output rates and increased efficiency without loss of quality.
4
Table of Contents
The
Epoxy
business is a supplier of epoxy resins and intermediates that serves a diverse array of end-markets and applications, including electrical laminates, civil engineering, composites, infrastructure and consumer goods. The business is one of the most vertically-integrated epoxy suppliers in the world. This position helps provide cost advantages and economies of scale across the value chain, as well as dependable product and service delivery around the globe.
The
Oxygenated Solvents
business is the world's largest producer of oxygenated solvents, with the leading position in butanol, E- and P-series glycol ethers, as well as several other products in its portfolio. The business offers the broadest range of solvents for servicing a diverse mix of end-use markets and applications, including paints and coatings, cleaning products, inks, electronics, pharmaceuticals, mining, personal care and other applications.
The
Polyglycols, Surfactants and Fluids
business is one of the world's leading suppliers of polyglycols and surfactants, with a broad range of products and technology and a proven record of performance and economy. The business also produces a broad line of lubricants, hydraulic fluids, aircraft deicing fluids and thermal fluids, with some of the most recognized brand names in the industry. Product applications include chemical processing, cleaning, heating, cooling, food and beverage processing, fuel additives, paints and coatings, pharmaceuticals and silicone surfactants.
The
Polyurethanes
business is a leading global producer of polyurethane raw materials. Dow's polyurethane products offer a broad range of solutions for flexible foam, rigid foam, coating, adhesive, sealant, and elastomer applications and are used in a variety of end-markets, including appliances, automotive, bedding, construction, electronics, flooring, footwear, furniture and packaging. The business is the leading global producer of propylene oxide (PO) and propylene glycol (PG) - offering PO via both a traditional process and a sustainable hydrogen peroxide to propylene oxide (HPPO) manufacturing technology, and a portfolio of PG products for a wide variety of applications.
The Performance Materials segment also includes the results of Dow Fiber Solutions, providing differentiated fibers and process improvements to the textile industry; Dow Haltermann, a provider of world-class contract manufacturing services to companies in the fine and specialty chemicals and polymers industries; Dow Oil and Gas, providing products for use in exploration and production, refining and gas processing, transportation, and fuel and lubricant performance; and SAFECHEM, a wholly owned subsidiary that manufactures closed-loop systems to manage the risks associated with chlorinated solvents. The segment also includes a portion of the results of the SCGDow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
5
Table of Contents
Divestitures:
PERFORMANCE PLASTICS
Applications
: adhesives
agricultural films
appliances and appliance housings
automotive parts and trim
beverage bottles
bins, crates, pails and pallets
building and construction
coatings
consumer and durable goods 
consumer electronics
disposable diaper liners
fibers and nonwovens
food and specialty packaging
hoses and tubing
household and industrial bottles
housewares
hygiene and medical films
industrial and consumer films and foams
information technology
leather, textile, graphic arts and paper
oil tanks and road equipment
plastic pipe
processing aids for plastic production
tapes and labels
toys, playground equipment and recreational products
wire and cable insulation and jacketing materials for power utility and telecommunications
Dow Elastomers
offers a unique set of elastomer products for customers worldwide. The business is focused on delivering innovative solutions that allow for differentiated participation in multiple industries and applications. The business offers a broad range of performance elastomers and plastomers, specialty copolymers and synthetic rubber. Key applications include adhesives, automotive, building and construction, hygiene and medical, and consumer solutions.
Dow Electrical and Telecommunications
is a leading global provider of products, technology, solutions and expertise that set standards for reliability, longevity, efficiency, ease of installation and protection used by the power and telecommunications industries in the transmission, distribution and consumption of power, voice and data. Dow Electrical and Telecommunications collaborates with cable makers, other industry suppliers, utilities, municipalities, testing institutes and other organizations around the world to develop solutions and create mutual value that will sustain these industries for years to come.
Dow Packaging and Converting
is a portfolio of businesses that primarily manufacture sticking and bonding solutions and specialty films for a wide range of applications, including adhesive tapes and paper labels, flexible packaging, film substrates, industrial and consumer films and foams, leather, rigid packaging, and textile and imaging. These products are supported with market recognized best-in-class technical support and end-use application knowledge. Many of the businesses' water-borne technologies are well-positioned to support environmentally preferred applications.
6
Table of Contents
The
Polyethylene
business is the world's leading supplier of polyethylene-based solutions through sustainable product differentiation. With multiple catalyst and process technologies, the business offers customers one of the industry's broadest ranges of polyethylene resins. With its industry-leading portfolio of product and technology solutions, the business primarily serves performance packaging and hygiene and medical end-markets.
The
Polypropylene
business is a major global polypropylene supplier that provides a broad range of products and solutions tailored to customer needs by leveraging Dow's leading manufacturing and application technology, research and product development expertise, extensive market knowledge and strong customer relationships.
The Performance Plastics segment also includes the results of the Plastics Licensing and Catalyst business. The segment also includes the results of Equipolymers and Univation Technologies, LLC (which licenses the UNIPOL polyethylene process and sells related catalysts, including metallocene catalysts), as well as a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the SCGDow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
Divestiture:
FEEDSTOCKS AND ENERGY
Applications
: agricultural products
alumina
automotive antifreeze and coolant systems
carpet and textiles
chemical processing
dry cleaning
household cleaners and plastic products
inks
metal cleaning
packaging, food and beverage containers
paints, coatings and adhesives
personal care products
petroleum refining
pharmaceuticals 
plastic pipe
polymer and chemical production
power
protective packaging
pulp and paper manufacturing
soaps and detergents
water treatment
The
Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl
business focuses on the production of chlorine for consumption by Dow's downstream derivative businesses, as well as production, marketing and supply of ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride monomer and caustic soda. These products are used for applications such as alumina production, pulp and paper manufacturing, soaps and detergents, and building and construction. Dow is the world's largest producer of both chlorine and caustic soda.
The
Energy
business supplies power, steam and other utilities, principally for use in Dow's global operations.
The
Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol
business is the world's largest producer of purified ethylene oxide, principally used in Dow's downstream performance derivatives. Dow is also a key supplier of ethylene glycol to MEGlobal, a 50:50 joint venture and a world leader in the manufacture and marketing of merchant monoethylene glycol and diethylene glycol. Ethylene glycol is used in polyester fiber, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) for food and beverage container applications, polyester film, and aircraft and runway deicers.
7
Table of Contents
The
Hydrocarbons
business encompasses the procurement of natural gas liquids and crude oil-based raw materials, as well as the supply of monomers, principally for use in Dow's global operations. The business regularly sells its by-products and buys and sells products in order to balance regional production capabilities and derivative requirements. The business also sells products to certain Dow joint ventures. Dow is the world leader in the production of olefins and aromatics.
The Feedstocks and Energy segment also includes the results of Compaa Mega S.A., MEGlobal and a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the SCG-Dow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
Divestitures:
Corporate
includes the results of Ventures (which includes new business incubation platforms focused on identifying and pursuing new commercial opportunities); Venture Capital; non-business aligned technology licensing and catalyst activities; the Company's insurance operations and environmental operations; enterprise level mega project activities; and certain corporate overhead costs and cost recovery variances not allocated to the operating segments. In 2009, Corporate also included the results of the Salt business, which the Company acquired with the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas and sold to K+S Aktiengesellschaft on October 1, 2009.
Industry Segments and Geographic Area Results
See Note Z to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information by operating segment and geographic area.
Competition
Historically, the chemical industry has operated in a competitive environment, and that environment is expected to continue. The Company experiences substantial competition in each of its operating segments and in each of the geographic areas in which it operates. In addition to other chemical companies, the chemical divisions of major national and international oil companies, advanced material suppliers, and producers of crop protection chemicals and agricultural biotechnology provide substantial competition in the United States and abroad. Dow competes worldwide on the basis of quality, technology, price and customer service, and for 2010, continued to be the largest U.S. producer of chemicals and plastics, in terms of sales.
Raw Materials
The Company operates in an integrated manufacturing environment. Basic raw materials are processed through many stages to produce a number of products that are sold as finished goods at various points in those processes.
The two major raw material streams that feed the integrated production of the Companys finished goods are chlorine-based and hydrocarbon-based raw materials.
Salt, limestone and natural brine are the base raw materials used in the production of chlor-alkali products and derivatives. The Company owns salt deposits in Louisiana and Texas; Alberta, Canada; Brazil; and Germany.
The Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including liquefied petroleum gases, crude oil, naphtha, natural gas and condensate. These raw materials are used in the production of both saleable products and energy. The Company also purchases electric power, benzene, ethylene and propylene to supplement internal production. Expenditures for hydrocarbon feedstocks and energy accounted for 41 percent of the Companys production costs and operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company purchases these raw materials on both short- and long-term contracts.
8
Table of Contents
Other significant raw materials include acetone, aniline, phenol, styrene, methanol, carbon black, ammonia, formaldehyde and acetic acid. The Company purchases these raw materials on both short- and long-term contracts.
The Company had adequate supplies of raw materials during 2010, and expects to continue to have adequate supplies of raw materials in 2011.
Method of Distribution
All products and services are marketed primarily through the Companys sales force, although in some instances more emphasis is placed on sales through distributors.
Twelve percent of the sales of the Feedstocks and Energy segment in 2010 were to one customer, with which the Company has an ongoing supply contract. In addition, excess ethylene glycol produced in Dows plants in the United States and Europe is sold to MEGlobal, a 50:50 joint venture with Petrochemical Industries Company (K.S.C.) of Kuwait. Sales to MEGlobal represented approximately 6 percent of the sales in the Feedstocks and Energy segment in 2010. Nineteen percent of the sales of the Feedstocks and Energy segment in 2010 were to two other customers with which the Company has ongoing supply contracts. Other than the sales to these customers, no significant portion of the business of any operating segment is dependent upon a single customer.
No single product accounted for more than 5 percent of the Companys consolidated net sales in 2010.
Research and Development
The Company is engaged in a continuous program of basic and applied research to develop new products and processes, to improve and refine existing products and processes, and to develop new applications for existing products. Research and development expenses were $1,660 million in 2010, $1,492 million in 2009 and $1,310 million in 2008. At December 31, 2010, the Company employed approximately 6,300 people in various research and development activities.
Patents, Licenses and Trademarks
The Company continually applies for and obtains U.S. and foreign patents. At December 31, 2010, the Company owned 3,609 active U.S. patents and 14,028 active foreign patents as follows:
 
Dows primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect the results of its research for use in operations and licensing. Dow is also party to a substantial number of patent licenses and other technology agreements. The Company had revenue related to patent and technology royalties totaling $191 million in 2010, $269 million in 2009 and $307 million in 2008. The Company incurred royalties to others of $111 million in 2010, $102 million in 2009 and $60 million in 2008. Dow also has a substantial number of trademarks and trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries, including the Dow in Diamond trademark. Although the Company considers that its patents, licenses and trademarks in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, it does not regard its business as being materially dependent upon any single patent, license or trademark.
9
Table of Contents
Principal Partly Owned Companies
Dows principal nonconsolidated affiliates at December 31, 2010, including direct or indirect ownership interest for each, are listed below:
See Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales
In 2010, the Company derived 67 percent of its sales and had 52 percent of its property investment outside the United States. While the Companys international operations may be subject to a number of additional risks, such as changes in currency exchange rates, the Company does not regard its foreign operations, on the whole, as carrying any greater risk than its operations in the United States. Information on sales and long-lived assets by geographic area for each of the last three years appears in Note Z to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and discussions of the Companys risk management program for foreign exchange and interest rate risk management appear in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 ("2010 Form 10-K") and Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Protection of the Environment
Matters pertaining to the environment are discussed in Part I, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes A and N to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employees
Personnel count was 49,505 at December 31, 2010, 52,195 at December 31, 2009 and 46,102 at December 31, 2008. Headcount decreased from year-end 2009 primarily due to divestitures, including Styron, the Powder Coatings business and a portion of the Companys acrylic monomer and specialty latex businesses, as well as actions taken related to the integration of Rohm and Haas and previously announced restructuring plans. Personnel count at December 31, 2009 was up from 46,102 at December 31, 2008, primarily due to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, offset by declines related to restructuring activities, business divestitures and personnel transfers to a joint venture.
Other Activities
Dow engages in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business primarily through its Liana Limited subsidiaries.
10
Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Set forth below is information related to the Companys executive officers as of February 11, 2011.
WILLIAM F. BANHOLZER, 54. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, VENTURES, NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT & LICENSING AND CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER. Employee of Dow since 2005. General Electric Company, Chemical Engineer 1983-1989. Laboratory Manager and Leader R&D Center 1989-1992. Engineering Manager of Superabrasives Business 1992-1997. Vice President of Global Engineering, GE Lighting 1997-1999. Vice President of Global Technology, GE Advanced Materials 1999-2005. Dow Corporate Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 2005-2009. Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 2009 to date. Ventures, New Business Development & Licensing May 2009 to date. Director of Dow Corning Corporation,* Dow Kokam LLC* and Mycogen Corporation.* Member of the Dow AgroSciences LLC* Members Committee and the Dow Corning Corporation Corporate Responsibility Committee. Elected to the U.S. National Academy of Engineering (NAE) 2002. Elected NAE Councilor 2005. Member of American Chemical Society and American Institute of Chemical Engineers. Advisory Board member for chemistry and chemical engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and University of California, Berkeley.
RONALD C. EDMONDS, 53. VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER. Employee of Dow since 1992. Arthur Anderson & Co. 1979-1982. The Upjohn Company 1982-1991. Chiquita Brands International 1991-1992. Dow Latin America Audit Manager 1992-1994. Latin America Payables Controller 1994-1997. Global Payables Controller 1997-1998. Global Procurement Service Center Leader 1998-2001. Global Accounting Director 2001-2007. Business Finance Vice President for Performance Plastics and Chemicals and Market Facing Businesses 2007 to June 2009. Vice President and Assistant Controller July 2009 to November 2009. Vice President and Controller November 2009 to date. Director of Dorinco Reinsurance Company,* DSL Holdings Inc.* and Liana Limited.* Director of the Midland Center for the Arts. Member of Financial Executives International Committee on Corporate Reporting, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Michigan Association of Certified Public Accountants.
JAMES R. FITTERLING, 49. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT, PLASTICS AND HYDROCARBONS. Employee of Dow since 1984. Commercial Director Liquid Separation Dow Pacific 1994-1998. Global Business Director Liquid Separations and President and CEO of FilmTec Corporation* 1998-2000. Chief Executive Officer of The OPTIMAL Group 2002-2005 with added responsibility for the Southeast Asia and Australia region in 2004. Business Vice President Polyethylene 2005-2007. President Basic Plastics 2007-2009. Vice President Corporate Development 2009 to August 2010. Dow Executive Vice President and President, Plastics and Hydrocarbons August 2010 to date. Chairman and Director of Univation Technologies, LLC.* Board member of Chemical Financial Corporation and the Midland Country Club.
GREGORY M. FREIWALD, 57. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, HUMAN RESOURCES AND CORPORATE AFFAIRS, AND AVIATION. Employee of Dow since 1979. Human Resources Manager, Chemical & Performance Business-U.S. Region 1992-1993. Human Resources Director for Executive, Finance, Law and Corporate 1993-1994. Latin America Human Resources and Quality Performance Director 1994-1996. Latin America Human Resources Leader and PBBPolisur S.A.* Human Resources Integration Leader 1996-1997. Global Human Resources, Resources Center Director 1997-2001. Senior Human Resources Director for Global Human Resources, Resource Center and Human Resources Director for Geographic Council 2001-2004. Human Resources Vice President, Operations 2004-2005. Human Resources Vice President 2005-2006. Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Executive Compensation 2006-2007. Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs 2008-2009. Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Corporate Affairs and Aviation 2009 to date.
MICHAEL R. GAMBRELL, 56. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, MANUFACTURING AND ENGINEERING OPERATIONS. Employee of Dow since 1976. Business Director for the North America Chlor-Alkali Assets Business 1989-1992. General Manager for the Plastic Lined Pipe Business 1992-1994. Vice President of Operations for Latin America 1994-1996. Corporate Director, Technology Centers and Global Process Engineering 1996-1998. Global Business Director, Chlor-Alkali Assets Business 1998-2000. Business Vice President, EDC/VCM & ECU Management 2000-2003. Business Vice President, Chlor-Vinyl Business 2003. Senior Vice President, Chemicals and Intermediates 2003-2005. Executive Vice President, Basic Plastics and Chemicals Portfolio 2005-2007. Executive Vice President, Basic Plastics and Chemicals, and Manufacturing and Engineering 2007-2009. Executive Vice President, Manufacturing and Engineering Operations 2009 to date. Ex-officio member of the Dow Board of Directors Environment, Health and Safety Committee. Board member of Oman Petrochemical Industries Company LLC.* Director of TRW Automotive Holdings Corporation. Director of the National Association of Manufacturers. Director Emeritus of the U.S.-India Business Council. Member of the U.S. Department of Commerces Manufacturing Council. Member of the University of Michigan Advisory Engineering Council. Recipient of the Presidents Distinguished Career Award from Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, 1996.
11
Table of Contents
HEINZ HALLER, 55. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF COMMERCIAL OFFICER. Employee of Dow 1980-1994 and since 2006. Marketing manager, Chlorinated Solvents 1984-1985. Frankfurt Sales office manager and Regional manager, Emulsion Polymers and Specialty Chemicals 1986-1989. Dow business operations manager, Emulsion Polymers, New Ventures and Plastic Lined Pipe 1989-1992. Global business director, Emulsion Polymers 1993-1994. Managing Director and member of the board, OMYA-Plss-Staufer AG 1994-1999. Chief Executive Officer, Red Bull Sauber AG and Sauber Petronas Engineering AG 2000-2002. Managing Director, Allianz Capital Partners GmbH 2002-2006. Dow Corporate Vice President, Strategic Development and New Ventures 2006-2007. Executive Vice President, Performance Plastics and Chemicals 2007-2009. Executive Vice President, Health, Agriculture and Infrastructure Group February 2009 to May 2009. Executive Vice President, Performance Systems May 2009 to August 2010. Chief Commercial Officer August 2010 to date. Director of Mycogen Corporation,* Dow Kokam LLC* and Dow Corning Corporation.* Chairman of the Dow AgroSciences LLC* Members Committee. Director of the Michigan Molecular Institute.
CHARLES J. KALIL, 59. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, LAW AND GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS, GENERAL COUNSEL AND CORPORATE SECRETARY. Employee of Dow since 1980. U.S. Department of Justice  Assistant U.S. Attorney, Eastern District of Michigan 1977-1980. General Counsel of Petrokemya (a former 50:50 joint venture of the Company) 1982-1983. Regional Counsel to Middle East/Africa 1983-1986. Senior Environmental Attorney 1986-1987. Litigation Staff Counsel and Group Leader 1987-1990. Senior Financial Law Counsel, Mergers and Acquisitions 1990-1992. General Counsel and Area Director of Government and Public Affairs for Dow Latin America 1992-1997. Special Counsel and Manager of INSITE legal issues 1997-2000. Assistant General Counsel for Corporate and Financial Law 2000-2003. Associate General Counsel for Corporate Legal Affairs 2003-2004. Dow Corporate Vice President and General Counsel 2004-2007. Senior Vice President and General Counsel 2007-2008. Executive Vice President and General Counsel 2008 to date. Corporate Secretary 2005 to date. Board member of Dow Corning Corporation,* Dorinco Reinsurance Company,* Liana Limited* and Oman Petrochemical Industries Company LLC.* Member of the Conference Boards Council of Chief Legal Officers. Member of the American Bar Association, District of Columbia Bar and the State Bar of Michigan. Board member of Institute for Legal Reform, U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Recipient of 2010 Bridge Builder of the Year Award, American Arab Chamber of Commerce.
DAVID E. KEPLER, 58. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, BUSINESS SERVICES, CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER. Employee of Dow since 1975. Computer Services Manager of Dow U.S.A. Eastern Division 1984-1988. Commercial Director of Dow Canada Performance Products 1989-1991. Director of Pacific Area Information Systems 1991-1993. Manager of Information Technology for Chemicals and Plastics 1993-1994. Director of Global Information Systems Services 1994-1995. Director of Global Information Application 1995-1998. Vice President 1998-2000. Chief Information Officer 1998 to date. Corporate Vice President with responsibility for eBusiness 2000 to date. Responsibility for Advanced Electronic Materials 2002-2003. Responsibility for Business Services  Customer Service, Information Systems, Purchasing, Six Sigma, Supply Chain 2004 to date. Senior Vice President with added responsibility for EH&S 2006 to date. Chief Sustainability Officer 2007 to date. Executive Vice President 2008 to date. Director of Dorinco Reinsurance Company* and Liana Limited.* Director of Teradata Corporation. Chairman of the MidMichigan Innovation Center Board of Directors. Member of U.S. Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors and American Chemistry Council Board of Directors. Member of the U.S. National Infrastructure Advisory Council, the American Chemical Society, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, and the University of California Board of Trustees.
ANDREW N. LIVERIS, 56. PRESIDENT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHAIRMAN. DIRECTOR SINCE 2004. Employee of Dow since 1976. General manager of Dows Thailand operations 1989-1992. Group business director for Emulsion Polymers and New Ventures 1992-1993. General manager of Dows start-up businesses in Environmental Services 1993-1994. Vice President of Dows start-up businesses in Environmental Services 1994-1995. President of Dow Chemical Pacific Limited* 1995-1998. Vice President of Specialty Chemicals 1998-2000. Business Group President for Performance Chemicals 2000-2003. President and Chief Operating Officer 2003-2004. President and Chief Executive Officer 2004 to date and Chairman 2006 to date. Director of Citigroup, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Chairman of the International Council of Chemical Associations. Vice Chairman of the U.S. Business Council. Past Chairman of the U.S.-China Business Council and American Chemistry Council. Member of the Presidents Export Council, the American Australian Association, the Business Roundtable, the U.S.-India CEO Forum, and the Peterson Institute for International Economics. Member of the Board of Trustees of Tufts University.
12
Table of Contents
JUAN R. LUCIANO, 49. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT, PERFORMANCE DIVISION. Employee of Dow since 1985. Sales & Marketing Manager Specialty Chemicals 1994-1996. Senior Marketing Manager for the Americas, Polyglycols within Specialty Chemicals Portfolio 1996-1999. Business Director Chelants, Specialty Chemicals 1999-2000. Global Business Director LDPE/PRIMACOR/SARAN/Slurry PE 2000-2001. Global Business Director Polypropylene 2001-2004. Business Vice President Engineering Polymers 2004-2006. Global Business Vice President Olefins and Aromatics 2006-2007. Business Group President Hydrocarbons and Energy 2007-2008. Senior Vice President Hydrocarbons and Energy, Basic Plastics, and Joint Ventures 2008 to August 2010. Dow Executive Vice President and President, Performance Division August 2010 to date. Members Committee of Dow Hydrocarbons and Resources LLC.*
JAMES D. MCILVENNY, 52. GROUP SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, MEGA PROJECTS. Employee of Dow since 1982. Business Manager Separation Systems 1989-1994. Director of Marketing, Sales and Service Liquid Separations 1994-1995. Global Business Director Liquid Separations 1995-1998. President and Chief Executive Officer FilmTec Corporation* 1995-1998. President and Chief Executive Officer Hampshire Chemical Corp.* 1998-2001. Business Vice President Specialty Polymers 2001-2004. President Greater China 2004-2006. President Dow Asia Pacific and Greater China 2006-2008. Senior Vice President Performance Products 2009 to August 2010. Dow Group Senior Vice President, Mega Projects August 2010 to date.
GEOFFERY E. MERSZEI, 59. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT; PRESIDENT OF DOW EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA; AND CHAIRMAN OF DOW EUROPE. Employee of Dow 1977-2001 and since 2005. Dow Middle East/Africa Credit Manager 1977-1980. Dow Asia Pacific Credit Manager 1980-1982. Dow Asia Pacific Finance and Credit Manager 1982-1983. Dow Germany and Eastern Europe Treasurer 1983-1986. Dow Foreign Exchange Manager 1986-1988. Director of Finance for Dow Asia Pacific 1988-1991. Director of Finance/Treasurer for Dow Europe 1991-1996. Dow Vice President and Treasurer 1996-2001. Alcan, Inc., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 2001-2005. Dow Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 2005-2009. Board member of The Dow Chemical Company 2005-2009. President of Dow Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Chairman of Dow Europe 2009 to date. Member of the European Chemical Industry Council Board and Executive Committee.
JEROME A. PERIBERE, 56. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DOW ADVANCED MATERIALS. Employee of Dow since 1977. Regional Marketing Manager of Eastern Europe 1982-1985. Regional Manager for the Middle East and Africa 1985-1988. European Agricultural Business Director 1988-1989. European Agricultural Commercial Director 1989-1993. Agricultural Global Commercial Director 1993-1997. Corporate Strategy Leader for Dow AgroSciences 1997-1998. Vice President of Weed Management Global Business Unit and European Trade Area 1998-2002. Vice President Agricultural Chemicals 2002-2004. President and Chief Executive Officer of Dow AgroSciences 2004-2009. Dow Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer, Dow Advanced Materials 2009 to date. Board member of Harris Financial Corporation and the United Way of Southeastern Pennsylvania. Member of the Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce.
FERNANDO RUIZ, 55. CORPORATE VICE PRESIDENT AND TREASURER. Employee of Dow since 1980. Treasurer, Ecuador Region 1982-1984. Treasurer, Mexico Region 1984-1988. Financial Operations Manager, Corporate Treasury 1988-1991. Assistant Treasurer, USA Area 1991-1992. Senior Finance Manager, Corporate Treasury 1992-1996. Assistant Treasurer 1996-2001. Corporate Director of Insurance and Risk Management 2001. Corporate Vice President and Treasurer 2001 to date. President and Chief Executive Officer, Liana Limited* and Dorinco Reinsurance Company* 2001 to date. President of Dow Credit Corporation* 2001 to date. Director of Dow Financial Services Inc.* Member of Financial Executives International and Michigan State University (Eli Broad College of Business) Advisory Board. Member of DeVry, Inc. Board of Directors.
WILLIAM H. WEIDEMAN, 56. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. Employee of Dow since 1976. Controller of Texas Operations 1994-1996. Global Business Controller for Specialty Chemicals 1996-1998. Global Finance Director for Specialty Chemicals 1998-2000. Global Finance Director for Performance Chemicals 2000-2004. Finance Vice President, Chemicals and Intermediates and Dow Ventures 2004-2006. Group Finance Vice President for Basic Chemicals and Plastics Portfolio 2006. Vice President and Controller 2006 to November 2009. Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer November 2009 to March 2010. Dow Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer March 2010 to date. Director of Dow Corning Corporation,* Diamond Capital Management Inc.,* Dorinco Reinsurance Company* and Liana Limited.* Member of the Dow AgroSciences LLC* Members Committee. Director of the Dow Chemical Employees Credit Union and Family and Childrens Services of Midland. Board and finance committee member of Mid Michigan Health. Member of Central Michigan University Accounting Advisory Committee and Central Michigan University Development Board.
13
Table of Contents
CAROL A. WILLIAMS, 52. GROUP SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT, CHEMICALS AND ENERGY DIVISION. Employee of Dow since 1980. Director of Analytical Science Lab 1993-1995. Global R&D Director Epoxy Products and Intermediates Business 1995-1999. North America Chlor-Alkali Assets Business Operations Leader, Site Leader 1999-2000. Business Vice President Chlor-Alkali Assets 2000-2003. Vice President Global Purchasing 2003-2004. R&D Vice President Hydrocarbons & Energy, Chemicals & Intermediates and Corporate R&D 2004-2005. Vice President Business Development Market Facing Businesses 2005-2006. Vice President R&D, Performance Plastics & Chemicals Portfolio 2006-2007. Corporate Vice President Market Facing, Business Development and Licensing 2007-2008. Senior Vice President Basic Chemicals Division 2008 to August 2010. Dow Group Senior Vice President and President, Chemicals and Energy Division August 2010 to date. Advisory Board member Engineering Department at Carnegie Mellon University. Member of Society of Women Engineers. Member of American Institute of Chemical Engineers. Chairperson of the World Chlorine Council.
* A number of Company entities are referenced in the biographies and are defined as follows. Some of these entities have had various names over the years. The names and relationships to the Company, unless otherwise indicated, are stated in this footnote as they existed as of February 11, 2011. Dow Kokam LLC  ultimately 45 percent owned by Dow. Dow Corning Corporation, Oman Petrochemical Industries Company LLC and Univation Technologies, LLC  companies ultimately 50 percent owned by Dow. Diamond Capital Management Inc.; Dorinco Reinsurance Company; Dow AgroSciences LLC; Dow Chemical Pacific Limited; Dow Credit Corporation; Dow Financial Services Inc.; Dow Hydrocarbons and Resources LLC; DSL Holdings Inc.; FilmTec Corporation; Hampshire Chemical Corp.; Liana Limited; Mycogen Corporation; and PBBPolisur S.A.  all ultimately wholly owned subsidiaries of Dow. Ownership by Dow described above may be either direct or indirect.
 
14
Table of Contents
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiaries (Dow or the Company). This section covers the current performance and outlook of the Company and each of its operating segments. The forward-looking statements contained in this section and in other parts of this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Companys operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as more fully discussed elsewhere and in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Companys expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward-looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws.
ABOUT DOW
Dow combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to passionately innovate what is essential to human progress. The Company connects chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help address many of the worlds most challenging problems such as the need for clean water, renewable energy generation and conservation, and increasing agricultural productivity. Dows diversified industry-leading portfolio of specialty chemical, advanced materials, agrosciences and plastics businesses deliver a broad range of technology-based products and solutions to customers in approximately 160 countries and in high growth sectors such as electronics, water, energy, coatings and agriculture. In 2010, Dow had annual sales of $53.7 billion. The Company conducts its worldwide operations through global businesses, which are reported in six operating segments: Electronic and Functional Materials, Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions, Agricultural Sciences, Performance Materials, Performance Plastics, and Feedstocks and Energy.
15
Table of Contents
In 2010, 36 percent of the Companys sales were to customers in North America; 34 percent were in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); while the remaining 30 percent were to customers in Asia Pacific and Latin America. The Company employs approximately 50,000 people and has a broad, global reach with 188 manufacturing sites in 35 countries.
2010 OVERVIEW
In 2010, Dow and the chemical industry as a whole experienced another year of improving economic conditions. Economies across much of the developed world showed signs of ongoing recovery in most end-markets as the year progressed. Meanwhile, the emerging geographies continued to lead in economic growth and, as a result, were a critical area of focus for new business opportunities and investments. As the year came to a close, however, some challenges remained, such as high unemployment in developed geographies and weakness in construction end-markets, particularly in the United States and Europe. In the face of these challenges, Dow delivered a reshaped and transformed business portfolio in 2010  one that is increasingly targeted to growing geographic areas and end-markets, and well-balanced to mitigate uncertainties.
Dows reported sales increased 20 percent from 2009 to $53.7 billion, an increase of 15 percent from pro forma
(1)
2009 sales. Excluding the impact of divestitures,
(2)
sales rose 26 percent versus pro forma 2009 sales. The Company reported quarterly sequential sales gains throughout the year, excluding divestitures. Sales improvements were broad-based, with notable gains in emerging geographies around the world. Dows reported sales in the emerging geographies surpassed $16 billion. As the global economic recovery continued, feedstock and energy costs rose throughout the year and remained volatile. The Companys purchased feedstock and energy costs were $5.0 billion higher than 2009, an increase of 31 percent.
The Company reported volume growth of 2 percent over 2009 pro forma sales. Excluding the impact of divestitures, Dow reported a 12 percent improvement in volume, with gains in all operating segments and geographic areas. Volume growth was notable in Electronic and Functional Materials, Agricultural Sciences, Performance Materials, and Feedstocks and Energy, all of which reported double-digit volume growth. Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions and Performance Plastics also reported solid volume gains; however, Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions continued to be impacted by continued weakness in the construction industry. Compared with 2009 pro forma sales, price rose 13 percent on a reported basis and 14 percent excluding divestitures. Price gains were most significant in Feedstocks and Energy, Performance Plastics and Performance Materials, which together reported a 21 percent improvement compared with 2009. Dows results from joint ventures returned to the level of earnings reported before the global economic recession, totaling $1.1 billion for the year, an increase of more than 75 percent from 2009. Earnings available for common stockholders increased from $0.32 per share in 2009 to $1.72 per share in 2010.
The Company continued to invest for growth in the year, reinforcing its strategic focus on science-based innovation and technology integration. Research and development (R&D) expenses rose to nearly $1.7 billion, an increase of 6 percent versus pro forma spending in the prior year, as the Company invested in growth projects in its innovation pipeline. Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) expenses fell 5 percent versus 2009 pro forma spending, despite increased spending in Agricultural Sciences to support new product launches and commercial activities related to recent seed acquisitions.
Finally, the Company delivered $4.1 billion of cash from operating activities, nearly double that of 2009, and surpassed its goal to divest $2 billion in non-strategic assets in 2010. Dow ended the year with $7.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Throughout the year the Company had sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility to meet all of its financial obligations.
  
16
Table of Contents
Dow focused on the execution of its strategy and delivering on the promise of its new portfolio, as well as investing for growth in businesses tied to fast-growing geographic areas and end-markets. Actions taken during 2010 included:
17
Table of Contents
Looking to 2011, Dow expects growth in the emerging geographies to continue, driven by a broad range of leading end-markets. The Company projects that these geographic areas will continue their high rate of growth, although year-over-year comparisons will be subdued relative to recent years. Signs of improvement in industrial end-markets in North America and Europe, coupled with ongoing strength in higher-growth sectors, such as electronics, agriculture and packaging, give Dow greater optimism that growth will continue in the developed geographies. Despite these more favorable business conditions, the Company expects lingering challenges to remain, particularly slow employment growth in developed geographies. Consequently, the Companys plans do not assume an accelerated rebound in business conditions. Dows success will continue to be driven by its transformed business portfolio, balanced geographic presence and investments in innovations aimed at the intersection of greatest societal need and business opportunity.
Dows results of operations and financial condition for the year ended December 31, 2010 are described in further detail in the following discussion and analysis.
ACQUISITION OF ROHM AND HAAS COMPANY
On April 1, 2009, the Company completed the acquisition of Rohm and Haas. Pursuant to the July 10, 2008 Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), Ramses Acquisition Corp., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, merged with and into Rohm and Haas (the Merger), with Rohm and Haas continuing as the surviving corporation becoming a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company pursued the acquisition of Rohm and Haas to make the Company a leading specialty chemicals and advanced materials company, combining the two organizations best-in-class technologies, broad geographic reach and strong industry channels to create a business portfolio with significant growth opportunities.
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Rohm and Haas common stock was converted into the right to receive cash of $78 per share, plus additional cash consideration of $0.97 per share. The additional cash consideration represented 8 percent per annum on the $78 per share consideration from January 10, 2009 to the closing of the Merger, less dividends declared by Rohm and Haas with a dividend record date between January 10, 2009 and the closing of the Merger. All options to purchase shares of common stock of Rohm and Haas granted under the Rohm and Haas stock option plans and all other Rohm and Haas equity-based compensation awards, whether vested or unvested as of April 1, 2009, became fully vested and converted into the right to receive cash of $78.97 per share, less any applicable exercise price. Total cash consideration paid to Rohm and Haas shareholders was $15.7 billion.
The Company achieved its synergy targets related to the acquisition a full quarter ahead of schedule, with realized savings of $1.4 billion including increased purchasing power for raw materials; manufacturing and supply chain work process improvements; and the elimination of redundant corporate overhead for shared services and governance. The integration of Rohm and Haas was substantially complete at December 31, 2010.
On July 31, 2009, the Company entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of certain acrylic monomer and specialty latex assets, as required by the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC), for approval of the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas (see Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The transaction closed on January 25, 2010.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Results of Rohm and Haas are included in the Companys consolidated results from the April 1, 2009 acquisition forward. In order to provide the most meaningful comparison of results of operations, some of the comparisons made in this section are presented on a pro forma basis, reflecting the combination of Dow and Rohm and Haas assuming the transaction had been consummated on January 1, 2008.
Net sales for 2010 were $53.7 billion, up 20 percent from reported net sales of $44.9 billion in 2009 and up 15 percent from pro forma net sales of $46.6 billion in 2009. Sales increased in 2010 across all segments and geographic areas, with higher prices contributing 13 percent of the improvement and increased volume adding 2 percent over 2009 pro forma results. The increase in price was largely driven by higher feedstock and energy costs, and was most pronounced in Feedstocks and Energy (up 28 percent), Performance Plastics (up 20 percent) and Performance Materials (up 12 percent). Double-digit price increases were reported in all geographic areas. Volume was mixed across the segments, with significant gains in Electronic and Functional Materials (up 20 percent) and Agricultural Sciences (up 11 percent) tempered by the impact of recent divestitures, which resulted in declines in Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions (down 3 percent) and Performance Plastics
18
Table of Contents
(down 3 percent). The Companys recent divestitures included the Styron business unit (Styron) divested on June 17, 2010; the Powder Coatings business divested on June 1, 2010; a portion of the acrylic monomer business and a portion of the specialty latex business divested on January 25, 2010; the Salt business of Rohm and Haas Company divested on October 1, 2009; and the Companys ownership interest in Total Raffinaderij Nederland N.V. (TRN) divested on September 1, 2009. See Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Companys divestitures. Excluding these divestitures, volume increased 12 percent compared with 2009 on a pro forma basis, with volume improvement in all segments and geographic areas.
On a pro forma basis, net sales for 2009 were down 30 percent from $66.9 billion in 2008. Compared with 2008, prices fell 17 percent, with decreases in all segments and double-digit declines in all geographic areas. Price declines were most pronounced in Feedstocks and Energy (down 28 percent), Performance Plastics (down 23 percent) and Performance Materials (down 15 percent), driven by significantly lower feedstock and energy costs. Volume decreased 13 percent as a result of the continued weakness in the global economy, with declines in all operating segments except Agricultural Sciences, which reported growth of 4 percent. From a geographic perspective, the volume decrease was most pronounced in North America, down 18 percent from 2008 levels, which were already reduced due to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike which hit the U.S. Gulf Coast, resulting in temporary plant outages.
Sales in the United States accounted for 33 percent of total sales in 2010 and 32 percent of total sales in 2009 and 2008. See the Sales Price and Volume tables at the end of the section titled Segment Results for details regarding the change in sales by operating segment and geographic area. In addition, sales and other information by operating segment and geographic area are provided in Note Z to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Gross margin for 2010 was $7.9 billion, compared with $5.7 billion in 2009 and $5.4 billion in 2008. The improvement in gross margin compared with 2009 reflected higher prices, which more than offset a $5.0 billion increase in purchased feedstock and energy costs; increased volume in Electronic and Functional Materials, Agricultural Sciences, and other higher margin product lines; and significantly higher operating rates. In 2010, gross margin was reduced by a $50 million labor-related litigation matter that was included in Cost of Sales and reflected in Corporate, and $91 million in asset impairments and related costs in the Polyurethanes business, the Epoxy business and Dow Automotive Systems included in Cost of Sales and reflected in Performance Materials.
In 2009, despite a significant drop in sales compared with 2008, gross margin increased as a result of the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, a $10.2 billion decrease in feedstock and energy costs, lower other raw material and freight costs, and the favorable impact of currency on costs. In 2009, gross margin was reduced by a one-time increase in cost of sales of $209 million related to the fair value step-up of inventories acquired from Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009, and sold in the second quarter of 2009. The increase was included in Cost of sales and reflected in the operating segments as follows: $75 million in Electronic and Functional Materials, $81 million in Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions and $53 million in Performance Plastics. Gross margin in 2009 was also reduced by hedging losses of $56 million related to the sale of the Companys 45 percent ownership interest in TRN (see Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements), reflected in the Feedstocks and Energy segment.
Gross margin in 2008 was negatively impacted by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which hit the U.S. Gulf Coast, causing temporary outages for several of the Companys Gulf Coast production facilities and resulting in $181 million in additional manufacturing expenses, including the repair of property damage, clean-up costs, unabsorbed fixed costs and inventory write-offs. The expenses were included in Cost of sales and reflected in the operating segments as follows: $2 million in Electronic and Functional Materials, $3 million in Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions, $2 million in Agricultural Sciences, $74 million in Performance Materials, $22 million in Performance Plastics, $69 million in Feedstocks and Energy, with the remaining $9 million in Corporate. In addition, gross margin in 2008 was reduced by legal expenses and other costs of $69 million related to the K-Dow transaction; these costs were expensed (to Cost of sales) upon Petrochemical Industries Company (K.S.C.) of Kuwaits refusal to close the K-Dow transaction (reflected in Corporate).
Dows global plant operating rate was 83 percent of capacity in 2010, compared with 74 percent in 2009 and 77 percent in 2008. Operating rates improved in 2010, with both increased demand and actions taken by management to rationalize capacity through shutdowns and divestitures contributing to the improvement. In 2009, operating rates were down from 2008, reflecting the downturn in the global economy. In 2008, operating rates were impacted by lower demand resulting from the slowing global economy, especially in the second half of the year, as well as by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike which hit the U.S. Gulf Coast in the third quarter of 2008. Depreciation expense was $2,289 million in 2010, $2,291 million in 2009 and $2,016 million in 2008.
19
Table of Contents
Personnel count was 49,505 at December 31, 2010, down from 52,195 at December 31, 2009. Headcount decreased from year-end 2009 primarily due to divestitures, including Styron, the Powder Coatings business and a portion of the Companys acrylic monomer and specialty latex businesses, as well as restructuring activities associated with the integration of Rohm and Haas and previously announced restructuring plans. Personnel count at December 31, 2009 was up from 46,102 at December 31, 2008, primarily due to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, offset by declines related to restructuring activities, business divestitures and personnel transfers to a joint venture.
Research and development (R&D) expenses were $1,660 million in 2010, compared with $1,492 million in 2009 and $1,310 million in 2008. The increase in R&D expenses in 2010 reflected the Companys planned spending on strategic corporate growth initiatives and continued investments in the Agricultural Sciences segment, partially offset by the elimination of R&D expenses related to the divestiture of Styron. In 2009, R&D expenses increased compared with 2008, due to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas and planned growth initiatives in the Agricultural Sciences segment, partially offset by cost savings in other segments.
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $2,609 million in 2010, compared with $2,487 million in 2009 and $1,966 million in 2008. SG&A expenses increased 5 percent from 2009, as selling expenses for all segments increased commensurate with higher sales and the full-year impact of the Rohm and Haas acquisition in 2010. In 2009, SG&A expenses increased compared with 2008, primarily due to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, partially offset by cost savings initiatives.
The following table illustrates the relative size of the primary components of total production costs and operating expenses of Dow. More information about each of these components can be found in other sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Part II, Item 6. Selected Financial Data of the 2010 Form 10-K.
 
Amortization of intangibles was $509 million in 2010, $399 million in 2009 and $92 million in 2008. The increase in amortization of intangibles in 2010 reflected the full-year impact of the amortization of intangible assets acquired from Rohm and Haas. Amortization of intangibles in 2009 increased from 2008 due to amortization of the fair value of intangible assets acquired from Rohm and Haas from the April 1, 2009 acquisition date forward. See Notes D and I to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the acquisition of Rohm and Haas and goodwill and other intangible assets.
The Company performs annual goodwill impairment tests during the fourth quarter of the year. During the fourth quarter of 2010, no impairment indicators related to the carrying value of goodwill were identified. During the fourth quarter of 2009, it was determined that goodwill associated with the Dow Haltermann business unit was impaired. The impairment was based on a review performed by management in which discounted cash flows did not support the carrying value of the goodwill. As a result, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment loss of $7 million, impacting the Performance Materials segment. During the fourth quarter of 2008, it was determined that goodwill associated with the Dow Automotive Systems and Polypropylene reporting units was impaired. The impairment was based on a review performed by management in which discounted cash flows did not support the carrying value of the goodwill. The Company recorded charges totaling $239 million for goodwill impairment losses, including $209 million for the Dow Automotive Systems reporting unit (impacting the Performance Materials segment) and $30 million for the Polypropylene reporting unit (impacting the Performance Plastics segment). See Note I to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill.
20
Table of Contents
During 2010, the Company recorded adjustments of $29 million to the 2009 restructuring charge for additional asset impairments, exit and disposal activities, and severance; and adjustments of $3 million to the 2008 restructuring charge to reduce the severance reserve. The adjustments were reflected in Electronic and Functional Materials ($8 million charge), Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions ($20 million charge) and Corporate ($2 million credit).
In June 2009, Dows Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan that incorporated actions related to the Companys acquisition of Rohm and Haas as well as additional actions to advance the Companys strategy and to respond to continued weakness in the global economy. The restructuring plan included the shutdown of a number of facilities and a global workforce reduction. As a result, the Company recorded restructuring charges totaling $677 million in the second quarter of 2009, which included asset write-downs and write-offs of $454 million, severance costs of $155 million and costs associated with exit or disposal activities of $68 million. The impact of the charges was shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the Companys segment results as follows: $48 million in Electronic and Functional Materials, $262 million in Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions, $2 million in Performance Materials, $1 million in Performance Plastics and $140 million in Feedstocks and Energy, with the remaining $224 million in Corporate.
During 2009, the Company recorded the following adjustments to its restructuring plans: in the first quarter of 2009, the Company recorded additional severance of $19 million related to 2008 restructuring activities, reflected in Corporate; in the second quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a $15 million reduction in the 2007 restructuring reserve, reflected in the Agricultural Sciences segment; and in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a $5 million reduction to the 2007 restructuring reserve and $13 million in additional charges related to the 2009 restructuring activities, both reflected in Corporate.
On December 5, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan as part of a series of actions to advance the Companys strategy and respond to the severe economic downturn that began in the latter part of 2008. The restructuring plan included the shutdown of a number of facilities and a global workforce reduction, which were substantially complete by the end of 2010. As a result of the shutdowns and global workforce reduction, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $785 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The charges consisted of asset write-downs and write-offs of $336 million, costs associated with exit or disposal activities of $128 million and severance costs of $321 million. The impact of the charges is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the Companys segment results as follows: $10 million in Electronic and Functional Materials, $16 million in Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions, $120 million in Performance Materials, $122 million in Performance Plastics and $87 million in Feedstocks and Energy, with the remaining $430 million in Corporate. In addition to the charges related to the 2008 restructuring plan, in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded additional adjustments of $54 million related to the 2007 and 2006 restructuring plans, primarily impacting the Performance Plastics segment.
See Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the restructuring charges.
During 2009, a charge of $7 million was recorded for purchased in-process research and development (IPR&D) related to the purchase of lithium ion battery technology by the Ventures business, impacting Corporate. During 2008, charges totaling $44 million were recorded for purchased IPR&D related to acquisitions within the Agricultural Sciences segment. See Note D to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding these charges.
Charges totaling $143 million in 2010, $166 million in 2009 and $49 million in 2008 were recorded for integration costs, legal expenses and other transaction costs related to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas; these charges were reflected in Corporate. In 2009, the Company also recorded $60 million in acquisition-related retention costs. These costs were recorded in Cost of sales, Research and development expenses, and Selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income and reflected in Corporate. The integration of Rohm and Haas was substantially complete at December 31, 2010.
Following the completion of a study to review Union Carbides asbestos claim and resolution activity in December of 2010, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims (excluding future defense and processing costs) by $54 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Similarly, following completion of a study to review Union Carbides asbestos claim and resolution activity in December of 2008, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims (excluding future defense and processing costs) by $54 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The reductions were shown as Asbestos-related credits in the consolidated statements of income and were reflected in Corporate. See Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation in Other Matters for additional information.
21
Table of Contents
Dows share of the earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates in 2010 was $1,112 million, compared with $630 million in 2009 and $787 million in 2008. In 2010, increased earnings at Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C. (EQUATE), MEGlobal, The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and The Kuwait Styrene Company K.S.C. more than offset a decline in earnings resulting from the September 2009 divestitures of the Companys ownership interests in TRN and the OPTIMAL Group of Companies (OPTIMAL), and the June 2010 divestiture of the Companys ownership interest in Americas Styrenics LLC. See Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Companys recent divestitures. In 2009, equity earnings declined compared with 2008, reflecting the overall decrease in global demand and poor economic conditions, with EQUATE, Dow Corning and OPTIMAL reporting the largest declines. Improved results were reported by The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. in 2009 following the successful startup of additional production capacity for ethylene oxide/ethylene glycol and increased production of ethylene in support of additional polyethylene capacity. Equity earnings for 2009 were negatively impacted by a $65 million impairment charge related to Equipolymers and the Companys $29 million share of a restructuring charge related to Dow Corning. See Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on nonconsolidated affiliates.
Sundry income - net includes a variety of income and expense items such as the gain or loss on foreign currency exchange, dividends from investments, and gains and losses on sales of investments and assets. Sundry income - net for 2010 was $125 million, compared with $891 million in 2009 and $89 million in 2008. In 2010, sundry income - net included a net $27 million gain on the Styron divestiture, reflected in the following operating segments: Performance Materials ($20 million) and Performance Plastics ($7 million). In addition to the net gain on the Styron divestiture, Sundry income - net for 2010 included net gains on several other divestitures, partially offset by a loss of $46 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and a charge of $47 million for an obligation related to a past divestiture (both reflected in Corporate). Sundry income - net in 2009 included a gain of $513 million on the sale of the Companys ownership interest in TRN and related inventory on September 1, 2009 (reflected in Feedstocks and Energy) and a gain of $339 million on the sale of the Companys ownership interest in OPTIMAL on September 30, 2009 (reflected in Performance Materials ($146 million) and Feedstocks and Energy ($193 million)). Sundry income - net in 2009 was reduced by a loss of $56 million related to the Companys early extinguishment of debt in the third quarter of 2009 (reflected in Corporate). In 2008, sundry income - net reflected net gains on several small divestitures and asset sales, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange hedging results. See Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Companys recent divestitures. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information on the Companys early extinguishment of debt.
Net interest expense (interest expense less capitalized interest and interest income) was $1,436 million in 2010, down from $1,532 million in 2009, reflecting lower debt financing costs during the year. In 2009, net interest expense increased compared with net interest expense of $562 million in 2008, due to debt financing activity for the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas. Interest expense (net of capitalized interest) and amortization of debt discount totaled $1,473 million in 2010, $1,571 million in 2009 and $648 million in 2008. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information regarding debt financing activity. Interest income was $37 million in 2010, down from $39 million in 2009 and $86 million in 2008. Interest rates on investments in 2010 were consistent with those of 2009, following a decline from 2008 rates, resulting in lower interest income in 2010 and 2009 compared with 2008.
The provision for income taxes was $481 million, compared with a credit of $97 million in 2009 and a provision of $651 million in 2008. The Companys effective tax rate fluctuates based on, among other factors, where income is earned and the level of income relative to tax credits available. For example, as the percentage of foreign sourced income increases, the Companys effective tax rate declines. The Companys tax rate is also influenced by the level of equity earnings, since most of the earnings from the Companys equity company investments are taxed at the joint venture level.
The tax rate for 2010 was positively impacted by a high level of equity earnings as a percentage of total earnings, the release of a tax valuation allowance, a tax law change, and improved financial results in jurisdictions with tax rates that are lower than the U.S. statutory rate. These factors resulted in an effective tax rate of 17.2 percent for 2010.
In 2009, the effective tax rate was negative 20.7 percent, and was reduced by several factors: a significantly higher level of equity earnings as a percent of total earnings, favorable accrual-to-return adjustments in various geographies, the recognition of domestic losses and an improvement in financial results in jurisdictions with tax rates that are lower than the U.S. statutory rate. In 2008, the effective tax rate was 51.0 percent, reflecting the negative impact of goodwill impairment losses that were not deductible for tax purposes.
On June 30, 2009, the Company sold the Calcium Chloride business and recognized a $162 million pretax gain. The results of operations related to the Calcium Chloride business have been reclassified and reported as income from discontinued operations for all periods presented. Income from discontinued operations (net of income taxes) was $110 million ($0.10 per share) in 2009, compared with $28 million ($0.03 per share) in 2008.
22
Table of Contents
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $11 million in 2010, $28 million in 2009 and $75 million in 2008. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests declined in 2010 compared with 2009 as a result of the July 2009 redemption of the Tornado Finance V.O.F. preferred partnership units. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests declined in 2009 compared with 2008 as a result of the third quarter of 2008 redemption by the outside partner of its ownership interest in Hobbes Capital S.A. See Note U to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these noncontrolling interests.
Preferred stock dividends of $340 million were recognized in 2010, compared with preferred stock dividends of $312 million in 2009. Dividends related to the Companys Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A were $340 million in 2010 and $255 million in 2009. The remaining $57 million of dividends in 2009 related to the Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B and Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, both of which were retired in the second quarter of 2009. See Notes W and X to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Net income available for common stockholders was $1,970 million ($1.72 per share) in 2010, compared with $336 million ($0.32 per share) in 2009 and $579 million ($0.62 per share) in 2008.
The following table summarizes the impact of certain items recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
23
Table of Contents
SEGMENT RESULTS
Beginning in the third quarter of 2011, the Company changed its reportable segments due to recent changes in the Company's organization. Following are the new segments along with key changes:
Electronic and Functional Materials
Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions
Agricultural Sciences
Performance Materials
Performance Plastics
Feedstocks and Energy
The reporting changes are retrospectively reflected in this section for all periods presented.
The reported results by operating segment can be found in Note Z to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company uses EBITDA (which Dow defines as earnings (i.e. "Net Income") before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) as its measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes. EBITDA by operating segment includes all operating items relating to the businesses, except depreciation and amortization; items that principally apply to the Company as a whole are assigned to Corporate. Note Z also includes a reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes.
In order to provide the most meaningful comparison of results by operating segment, the following discussion and analysis compares actual results for 2010 to actual results for the last nine months of 2009 plus pro forma historical results for the first quarter of 2009 and pro forma historical results for 2008. The unaudited pro forma historical segment information is based on the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of both Dow and Rohm and Haas and was prepared to illustrate the effects of the Companys acquisition of Rohm and Haas, assuming the acquisition of Rohm and Haas had been consummated on January 1, 2008. In addition, the unaudited pro forma historical segment information reflects the impact of increased depreciation and amortization expense resulting from the fair valuation of assets acquired from Rohm and Haas assuming that the transaction had been consummated on January 1, 2008.
The unaudited pro forma historical segment information, prepared following the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas, is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have actually occurred had the acquisition been completed as of the date indicated, nor is it indicative of the future operating results of the combined company. The unaudited
24
Table of Contents
pro forma historical segment information does not reflect future events that may occur after the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, including the potential realization of operating cost savings (synergies) or restructuring activities or other costs related to the planned integration of Rohm and Haas, and does not consider potential impacts of current market conditions on revenues, expense efficiencies or asset dispositions (with the exception of the sale of Dows Calcium Chloride business).
The following table, which summarizes the pretax impact of certain items recorded by Rohm and Haas prior to the acquisition, is provided for pro forma comparison purposes.
In addition, due to the completion of several divestitures (see Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements), the change in sales volume from 2009 excluding divestitures is also provided by operating segment, where applicable.
ELECTRONIC AND FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS
The Electronic and Functional Materials segment consists of two businesses  Dow Electronic Materials and Functional Materials  and includes a portion of the Companys share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company. Dow Electronic Materials is a leading global supplier of materials for chemical mechanical planarization; materials used in the production of electronic displays, including brightness films, diffusers, metalorganic light emitting diode precursors and organic light emitting diode materials; products and technologies that drive leading edge semiconductor design; materials used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards; and integrated metallization processes critical for interconnection, corrosion resistance, metal finishing and decorative applications. These enabling materials are found in applications such as consumer electronics, flat panel displays and telecommunications. Dow Electronic Materials includes Display Technologies, Growth Technologies, Interconnect Technologies and Semiconductor Technologies. Functional Materials is a portfolio of businesses characterized by a vast global footprint, a broad array of unique chemistries, multi-functional ingredients and technology capabilities, combined with key positions in the pharmaceuticals; food, home and personal care; and industrial specialty industries. These technology capabilities and market platforms enable the businesses to develop innovative solutions that address modern societal needs for clean water and air; material preservation; and improved health care, disease prevention, nutrition and wellness. Functional Materials includes Dow Home and Personal Care, Dow Microbial Control, Dow Wolff Cellulosics and Performance Additives.
 
25
Table of Contents
2010 Actual Versus 2009 Pro Forma
Electronic and Functional Materials sales were $4,203 million for 2010, up 20 percent from $3,509 million in 2009, entirely due to volume. Volume was strong across all geographic areas and all businesses, reflecting improved economic conditions in the food and nutrition, personal care and electronics industries. Prices were flat for the segment, as competitive pricing pressure on more mature products was countered by the introduction of new products with higher margins and targeted price increases in response to escalating raw materials costs. EBITDA for 2010 was $1,052 million, a significant increase from $656 million in 2009, primarily due to higher volume and higher equity earnings from Dow Corning. Results for 2010 were negatively impacted by an $8 million adjustment to the 2009 restructuring charge related to the closure of a small manufacturing facility. EBITDA for 2009 was negatively impacted by an increase in cost of sales of $75 million related to the fair valuation of Rohm and Haas inventories, restructuring charges of $48 million (see Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $8 million of the Company's share of a restructuring charge recognized by Dow Corning.
Dow Electronic Materials sales in 2010 were up 29 percent from 2009, driven by higher volume, especially in Asia Pacific, primarily due to strong underlying demand in the electronics industry and new product introductions. Semiconductor foundry utilization rates across the industry improved significantly compared with 2009 and were running in excess of 90 percent throughout most of 2010, supporting higher demand for chemical mechanical planarization pads and materials used in printed circuit boards. Demand for liquid crystal display (LCD) chemicals and film materials that replace glass used in plasma display panels also increased. New product launches and strategic customer wins helped drive a 39 percent volume growth for Dow Electronic Materials in Asia Pacific.
Functional Materials sales in 2010 were up 13 percent from 2009, entirely related to volume. Volume increased in all geographic areas and all major businesses due to higher demand for specialty biocides and cellulosics used in food, nutrition and personal care products.
2009 Versus 2008 (Pro Forma Comparison)
Electronic and Functional Materials sales were $3,509 million for 2009, down 20 percent from $4,371 million in 2008, as volume dropped 16 percent and prices declined 4 percent. The decrease in volume was broad-based, the result of the global downturn in the electronics and construction industries. EBITDA for 2009 was $656 million, compared with $999 million for 2008. Despite the impact of lower SG&A expenses and lower raw material costs during 2009, EBITDA declined as a result of lower volume; a decrease in equity earnings from Dow Corning, which included $8 million of the Company's share of a restructuring charge; an increase in cost of sales of $75 million related to the fair valuation of Rohm and Haas inventories; and restructuring charges of $48 million. EBITDA for 2008 included a gain on the sale of Rohm and Haas investment in UP Chemical Company of $87 million, restructuring charges of $22 million and hurricane-related costs of $3 million.
Dow Electronic Materials sales for 2009 were down 23 percent versus 2008, driven by a 22 percent decrease in volume and a 1 percent decline in prices. Volume declined in all geographic areas reflecting the global economic downturn. Asia Pacific, however, reported signs of recovery in the second half of 2009 due to a rebound in electronics demand and re-stocking within the value chain.
Functional Materials sales for 2009 were down 17 percent versus 2008, as volume decreased 11 percent and prices declined 6 percent. Volume declined across all major businesses. Volume declines in cellulosics were driven by weaker construction industry conditions.
Electronic and Functional Materials Outlook for 2011
Electronic and Functional Materials sales are expected to increase in 2011, driven by continued demand in the electronics and health care industries, especially in emerging geographies.
Dow Electronic Materials sales volume is expected to increase, driven by higher demand across electronics end-markets especially in mobile phones, LCD televisions and tablet devices. Industry semiconductor foundry utilization rates are expected to remain near current levels in 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2010, Dow Electronic Materials broke ground on two new manufacturing facilities in Asia Pacific. The construction of the new metalorganic precursor manufacturing plant in Cheonan, Korea is part of a multi-phase plan announced in June 2010 to expand trimethylgallium production capacity to meet the surging demand for the material in LED and related electronics applications. The facility is expected to be operational in early 2011. A new Eastern China manufacturing facility at the Companys Zhangjiagang site will meet growing demand for materials for printed circuit boards, electronic and industrial finishing and photovoltaics in Asia. Start-up is planned for late 2011.
Functional Materials sales are also expected to increase, especially in emerging geographies, due to higher demand for specialty biocides used in personal care and cosmetics applications. Higher demand for cellulosics used in food and nutrition is also expected. Several innovation projects across the business are anticipated to drive higher sales.
26
Table of Contents
COATINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE SOLUTIONS
The Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions segment consists of the following businesses: Dow Building and Construction, Dow Coating Materials, Dow Water and Process Solutions, and Performance Monomers; and includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company. These businesses produce a wide variety of products with a broad range of applications  adhesives and sealants, construction materials (insulation, weatherization and vinyl applications), cellulosic-based construction additives, raw materials for architectural paints and industrial coatings, and technologies used for water purification.
 
2010 Actual Versus 2009 Pro Forma
Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions sales were $6,596 million for 2010, up 6 percent from $6,243 million in 2009. Compared with 2009, price was up 9 percent, while volume declined 3 percent. Price improved in all geographic areas. The price improvement was most pronounced in Performance Monomers, driven by higher raw material costs, and Dow Coating Materials, where raw material supply constraints led to a favorable pricing environment during 2010. Volume declined due to the United States Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") required divestiture of certain specialty latex assets on January 25, 2010 (related to the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas) and the June 1, 2010 divestiture of the Powder Coatings business. Excluding these divestitures, volume increased 7 percent compared with 2009. The increase in volume was primarily driven by Performance Monomers as well as higher demand for insulation products, ion exchange resins and reverse osmosis membranes.
EBITDA for 2010 was $1,230 million, up from $648 million in 2009. EBITDA was negatively impacted in 2010 by $15 million in adjustments to the 2009 restructuring plan and $5 million in restructuring charges related to the divestiture of the specialty latex assets. EBITDA for 2009 was negatively impacted by $262 million of restructuring charges primarily related to the Companys actions to optimize facilities following the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, an increase in cost of sales of $81 million related to the fair valuation of Rohm and Haas inventories and $21 million of the Company's share of a restructuring charge recognized by Dow Corning. Compared with last year, higher prices, improved operating rates, lower SG&A expenses and higher equity earnings from Dow Corning more than offset increases in raw material costs. See Notes C and D to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on restructuring charges and the acquisition of Rohm and Haas.
2009 Versus 2008 (Pro Forma Comparison)
Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions sales were $6,243 million for 2009, down 25 percent from $8,358 million in 2008, as volume dropped 16 percent and prices fell 9 percent. The volume decline was due to weak demand for architectural and industrial coatings and other materials used in residential and commercial construction. Demand for coatings and construction materials was down significantly due to the downturn in the housing industry, particularly in North America and EMEA. Volume declines in ion exchange resins and reverse osmosis membranes, particularly for large industrial water projects, were principally due to lower infrastructure spending and cautious capital spending by customers. The decrease in price was largely driven by a decline in feedstock and energy and other raw material costs.
27
Table of Contents
EBITDA for 2009 was $648 million compared with $1,082 million for 2008. EBITDA for 2009 was reduced by $262 million of restructuring charges, an $81 million increase in cost of sales related to the fair valuation of Rohm and Haas inventories and $21 million of the Company's share of a restructuring charge recognized by Dow Corning. EBITDA declined in 2009 as a result of these charges, the decrease in sales and lower equity earnings from Dow Corning despite lower raw material and freight costs and lower SG&A expenses. EBITDA for 2008 was negatively impacted by $30 million of restructuring charges and $22 million of hurricane-related costs.
Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions Outlook for 2011
Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions sales are expected to increase in 2011, driven by the gradual recovery of new residential construction in the United States and continued growth in insulation products due to more stringent energy codes. Innovation projects, like POWERHOUSE
solar shingles, are expected to commercially launch in the second half of 2011. Dow Coating Materials sales are also expected to increase, especially in emerging geographies, driven by higher demand for architectural coatings. Demand for industrial coatings is expected to remain flat. Dow Water and Process Solutions sales are expected to increase, driven by higher demand for ion exchange resins and reverse osmosis membranes used in large industrial water desalination projects. Price increases are expected across most businesses in response to projected higher raw material costs in 2011.
AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
Dow AgroSciences is a global leader in providing agricultural and plant biotechnology products, pest management solutions and healthy oils. The business invents, develops, manufactures and markets products for use in agriculture, industrial and commercial pest management, and food service.
 
2010 Actual Versus 2009 Pro Forma
Agricultural Sciences sales were a record $4,869 million in 2010, up from $4,537 million in 2009. Sales increased 7 percent, with volume up 11 percent and price down 4 percent. With the launch of SmartStax
technology, growth in the corn, soybean and cotton portfolios, and new seed acquisitions, the Seeds, Traits and Oils business reported a 25 percent increase in volume. New agricultural chemicals products also posted strong volume growth, increasing 34 percent as pyroxsulam cereal herbicide sales doubled, and penoxsulam rice herbicide, aminopyralid range and pasture herbicide and spinetoram insecticide recorded double-digit growth. The price decline when compared with the same period last year was the result of continued generic competition on commodity agricultural chemicals. AgroFresh reported modest volume growth in all geographic areas in 2010.
EBITDA for 2010 was $640 million, compared with $577 million in 2009. EBITDA increased as sales volume gains in the Seeds, Traits and Oils business, new product growth, and continued portfolio management more than offset lower pricing on commodity agricultural chemicals and increased investment in R&D and SG&A to support growth initiatives. Results for 2009 were favorably impacted by a $15 million reduction in the 2007 restructuring reserve, originally related to pre-acquisition contract termination fees between the Company and Rohm and Haas. See Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on restructuring charges.
28
Table of Contents
2009 Versus 2008 (Pro Forma Comparison)
Agricultural Sciences sales were $4,537 million in 2009, down from $4,609 million in 2008. Sales decreased 2 percent as prices declined 6 percent (half due to currency), while volume increased 4 percent. Reduced farm income and tighter credit markets in many regions created significant downward pricing pressure during 2009. Prices declined as farm income was negatively impacted by falling crop commodity prices combined with the relatively higher costs of purchases made earlier in the year. The commodity product glyphosate accounted for the vast majority of the overall decline in prices compared with 2008. Volume increased as new seed acquisitions and growth in the corn, soybean and sunflower portfolios resulted in 33 percent sales growth in the Seeds, Traits and Oils business. Volume for new agricultural chemicals products also increased as pyroxsulam sales more than tripled and penoxsulam and spinetoram had continued strong growth. AgroFresh posted record sales volume growth compared with 2008 as SMARTFRESH technology for maintaining the just-harvested quality and freshness of fruits and vegetables continued to receive excellent channel support in all geographic areas.
EBITDA for 2009 was $577 million, compared with $892 million in 2008. EBITDA was negatively impacted by higher costs associated with the valuation of inventory based on reduced raw material prices, unfavorable currency exchange rates, glyphosate price declines, and increased R&D and SG&A expenses to support growth initiatives. Results for 2009 were favorably impacted by a $15 million reduction in the 2007 restructuring reserve, originally related to pre-acquisition contract termination fees between the Company and Rohm and Haas. EBITDA for 2008 was negatively impacted by charges of $44 million for IPR&D related to seed acquisitions, $3 million in restructuring charges and $2 million related to the 2008 hurricanes.
Agricultural Sciences Outlook for 2011
Agricultural Sciences sales for 2011 are expected to grow above the levels achieved in 2010. Volume is anticipated to increase in key regions as the agricultural industry benefits from strong global demand for agricultural products. SmartStax
technology, which is already considered an industry leading corn stacked trait, will enter its second year of commercial production in 2011. Continued sales growth of new products pyroxsulam, spinetoram, penoxsulam, and aminopyralid is also anticipated in 2011. Investments in technology, capacity and geographic reach in the Seeds, Traits and Oils business remain a priority.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS
The Performance Materials segment consists of the following businesses: Amines; Chlorinated Organics; Dow Automotive Systems; Dow Formulated Systems; Dow Plastic Additives; Epoxy; Oxygenated Solvents; Polyglycols, Surfactants and Fluids; Polyurethanes; Dow Fiber Solutions; Dow Haltermann; Dow Oil and Gas; and SAFECHEM. These businesses produce a wide variety of products with a broad range of applications  adhesives, aircraft and runway deicing fluids, automotive interiors and exteriors, carpeting, footwear, home furnishings, mattresses, personal care products, transportation, waterproofing membranes and wind turbines. The segment also includes a portion of the results of the SCG-Dow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
On March 2, 2010, Dow announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell Styron to an affiliate of Bain Capital Partners; the transaction closed on June 17, 2010. Businesses and products sold within the Performance Materials segment included Emulsion Polymers (styrene-butadiene latex); Synthetic Rubber; and certain products from Dow Automotive Systems; all of which were reported in the Performance Materials segment through the date of the divestiture. On September 30, 2009, the Company completed the sale of its ownership interest in the OPTIMAL Group of Companies, nonconsolidated affiliates, to Petroliam Nasional Berhad; a portion of the results were reported in the Performance Materials segment through the date of the divestiture. See Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these divestitures.
 
29
Table of Contents
2010 Actual Versus 2009 Pro Forma
Performance Materials sales for 2010 were $13,957 million, up 17 percent from $11,900 million in 2009. Price increased 12 percent and volume increased 5 percent, with price and volume improvements reported in all geographic areas and most businesses. Chlorinated Organics experienced a double-digit price increase due to improved pricing in refrigerants, fluoropolymers and solvent applications. Epoxy, Dow Plastic Additives, Oxygenated Solvents and Polyurethanes also experienced double-digit price increases driven primarily by increased feedstock and energy and other raw material costs. Compared with last year, volume was negatively impacted by the sale of Emulsion Polymers, Synthetic Rubber and certain Dow Automotive Systems assets as part of the Styron divestiture completed on June 17, 2010. Excluding the impact of this divestiture, volume was up 15 percent with double-digit increases in all geographies. Particularly strong growth was reported by the Epoxy business, up 30 percent driven by improved demand for resins used in the automotive and electronic industries and new product supply agreements with Styron. Dow Automotive Systems reported significant volume growth of 24 percent due to strong demand in the automotive industry. Demand for formulations related to alternative energy and energy efficiency rebounded from the global economic slowdown, contributing to a 21 percent volume gain in Dow Formulated Systems. Oxygenated Solvents also reported a 21 percent volume increase driven by the economic recovery, especially in North America and Asia Pacific.
EBITDA for 2010 was $1,714 million, compared with $1,567 million in 2009. Compared with last year, EBITDA improved as higher prices and volume, and the benefits of improved operating rates and lower R&D expenses more than offset higher raw material costs, higher manufacturing and supply chain costs and lower equity earnings related to costs associated with the start-up of a new joint venture. EBITDA in 2010 was negatively impacted by $48 million of asset impairment charges and related costs in the Polyurethanes business, a $34 million charge for the write-off of capital project spending and related costs in the Epoxy business, and a $9 million write-off of capital spending in Dow Automotive Systems. EBITDA in 2010 was favorably impacted by a $20 million net gain on the sale of Styron. EBITDA in 2009 was positively impacted by a $146 million gain on the sale of the Company's ownership interest in OPTIMAL, partially reduced by a $7 million charge related to the impairment of goodwill associated with the Dow Haltermann reporting unit (see Note I to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $2 million of restructuring charges. See Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on restructuring charges.
2009 Versus 2008 (Pro Forma Comparison)
Performance Materials sales were $11,900 million in 2009, down from $16,845 million in 2008. Sales declined 29 percent with prices declining 15 percent and volume declining 14 percent. Price decreased in all businesses, driven by lower feedstock and energy and other raw material costs. The decrease in volume was broad-based, impacting all businesses, driven by weak global demand especially in the automotive and construction industries.
EBITDA for 2009 was $1,567 million, compared with $1,066 million in 2008. EBITDA increased from 2008 as a decrease in feedstock and energy and other raw material costs, lower freight costs, and lower R&D and SG&A expenses more than offset the declines in selling prices and volume. EBITDA in 2009 was positively impacted by a $146 million gain on the sale of the Company's ownership interest in OPTIMAL, partially reduced by a $7 million charge related to the impairment of goodwill associated with the Dow Haltermann reporting unit and $2 million of restructuring charges. EBITDA for 2008 was negatively impacted by a goodwill impairment loss of $209 million associated with Dow Automotive Systems (See Note I to the Consolidated Financial Statements), restructuring charges of $122 million related to the closure or impairment of several manufacturing facilities and costs of $74 million related to the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes.
30
Table of Contents
Performance Materials Outlook for 2011
Performance Materials sales are expected to increase across most businesses in 2011 as recovery in the transportation, building and construction, and infrastructure-related industries continues, particularly in emerging geographies. Moderate volume growth is expected, with continued strong demand and the anticipated start-up of propylene oxide production at a consolidated joint venture in Thailand. Dow Formulated Systems volume is expected to continue to grow, with increased demand in energy efficiency and alternative energy applications. The Performance Materials segment expects increased prices in 2011, driven by projected higher feedstock and energy and other raw material costs.
PERFORMANCE PLASTICS
The Performance Plastics segment includes the following businesses: Dow Elastomers; Dow Electrical and Telecommunications; Dow Packaging and Converting; Plastics Licensing and Catalyst; Polyethylene; and Polypropylene. These world-leading businesses provide a broad range of products and solutions by leveraging Dows leading manufacturing and application technology, research and product development expertise, extensive market knowledge and strong customer relationships. Product applications include adhesives, beverage bottles, disposable diaper liners, flexible and rigid packaging, toys, plastic pipe, oil tanks, road equipment, and wire and cable insulation and jacketing materials for power utility and telecommunications. The Performance Plastics segment also includes the results of Americas Styrenics LLC (through the June 17, 2010 divestiture of Styron), Equipolymers and Univation Technologies, LLC, as well as a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the SCG-Dow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
On March 2, 2010, Dow announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell Styron to an affiliate of Bain Capital Partners; the transaction closed on June 17, 2010. Businesses sold within the Performance Plastics segment included Styrenics (polystyrene, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, styrene acrylonitrile and expandable polystyrene), a global leader in the production of polystyrene resins; Polycarbonate and Compounds and Blends; and the Companys 50-percent ownership interest in Americas Styrenics LLC, a nonconsolidated affiliate; all of which were reported in the Performance Plastics segment through the date of the divestiture. See Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on this divestiture.
2010 Actual Versus 2009 Pro Forma
Performance Plastics sales for 2010 were $15,260 million, up 17 percent from $13,026 million in 2009, with price up 20 percent and volume down 3 percent. Global economic conditions began to improve during the second half of 2009 and this momentum carried over into 2010. Feedstock and energy costs were significantly higher than in 2009, driving double-digit price increases in all geographic areas. The decline in volume for the segment reflected the divestiture of the Styrenics and Polycarbonate and Compounds and Blends businesses as part of the June 17, 2010 divestiture of Styron. Sales volume, excluding the impact of the Styron divestiture, was up 4 percent from 2009. Sales volume during the first half of 2010 was negatively impacted by planned maintenance turnarounds at the Companys polyethylene and polypropylene production facilities in North America and Europe. Production was also negatively impacted during the first half of the year by an unplanned site outage at the Companys polypropylene production facility in Schkopau, Germany, and by ethylene supply limitations at the Companys Bahia Blanca polyethylene facility in Argentina. With the completion of the maintenance
31
Table of Contents
turnarounds and resolution of the outages, production returned to normal levels during the second half of 2010 and demand was strong. Polypropylene volume was significantly higher in North America and EMEA as demand in the consumer goods, automotive and packaging sectors was particularly strong. Dow Elastomers reported strong, double-digit volume increases in all geographic areas due to tight supply/demand balances during the year. Dow Packaging and Converting also achieved strong volume increases in all geographic areas as the global economic recovery increased demand for adhesives and other packaging materials.
EBITDA for 2010 was $3,565 million, up from $2,147 million in 2009. While feedstock and energy and other raw materials costs were significantly higher than 2009, the increases were more than offset by higher prices and improved equity earnings from the Companys joint ventures in Kuwait. EBITDA for 2010 included a $7 million net gain on the divestiture of Styron. EBITDA in 2009 was negatively impacted by $65 million of impairment charges related to the Companys investment in Equipolymers, a nonconsolidated affiliate; an increase in cost of sales of $53 million related to the fair valuation of Rohm and Haas inventories; and $2 million of restructuring charges. See Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on restructuring charges.
2009 Versus 2008 (Pro Forma Comparison)
Performance Plastics sales for 2009 were $13,026 million, down 29 percent from $18,435 million in 2008. The decline in feedstock costs and the weak pricing environment that developed in late 2008 carried forward into 2009, resulting in prices that were 23 percent lower than those of 2008. After reaching a low point during the first quarter of 2009, prices improved during the remainder of the year. Volume was negatively impacted by weak global economic conditions, declining 6 percent for the year. Polyethylene and polypropylene volumes improved in Asia Pacific and Latin America and as the economic recovery began to gather momentum, demand increased. Lower natural gas and other feedstock prices in North America, as well as delays in the startup of new Middle East industry production capacity, resulted in economic conditions that favored the export of North American production into these geographic areas. Dow Elastomers and Dow Electrical and Telecommunications volume decreased in all geographic areas, the result of continued weakness in the global automotive and construction industries. Volume was also reduced in North America due to the May 2008 formation of Americas Styrenics LLC.
EBITDA for 2009 was $2,147 million, down from $2,154 million in 2008. While Performance Plastics benefited from a significant decline in feedstock costs, lower raw material and freight costs and lower SG&A expenses, these favorable impacts were more than offset by the decline in prices. Equity earnings were down slightly from 2008 as improved earnings from Americas Styrenics LLC, The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C., LG DOW Polycarbonate Limited and Siam Polyethylene were more than offset by lower earnings from EQUATE and $65 million of impairment charges related to the Companys investment in Equipolymers. EBITDA in 2009 was impacted by an increase in cost of sales of $53 million related to the fair valuation of Rohm and Haas inventories and $2 million of restructuring charges. EBITDA in 2008 was reduced by restructuring charges totaling $183 million, which reflected the write-down of the Companys investment in a project to form a joint venture in Oman with the Oman Petrochemicals Industries Company LLC; costs related to the shutdown of production facilities (Terneuzen, The Netherlands; Freeport, Texas; Seadrift, Texas; and Riverside, Missouri); as well as costs associated with the permanent shutdown of the operations of the Ptromont and Company, Limited Partnership (Ptromont) joint venture in Varennes, Canada. EBITDA in 2008 also included a goodwill impairment loss of $30 million associated with the polypropylene reporting unit (see Note I to the Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as costs of $22 million related to the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes.
Performance Plastics Outlook for 2011
Feedstock and energy costs are expected to increase in 2011 as global economic conditions continue to improve. In North America, stable natural gas prices are expected to help U.S. Gulf Coast polyethylene production maintain a competitive position globally. The Company will continue to focus on higher margin, differentiated products and operating efficiencies to minimize the potential impact of higher and volatile propylene costs. Both polyethylene and polypropylene are expected to face increased competition from new industry capacity that came on-line in 2009 and 2010 and additional industry capacity expected to come on-line during 2011. Dow Elastomers is expected to experience continued growth with the introduction of the ENLIGHT encapsulant films, which began commercial-scale production in late 2010 in Findlay, Ohio. The segment is also expected to be favorably impacted by projects at the SCG-Dow Groups facilities in Thailand where a new solutions polyethylene plant came on-line in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the start-up of a new specialty elastomers production train is anticipated to take place in 2011. These facilities will increase capacity and expand the Company's presence in Asia Pacific. Equity earnings from the Companys joint ventures in Kuwait and Univation Technologies, LLC are also expected to improve in 2011.
32
Table of Contents
FEEDSTOCKS AND ENERGY
The Feedstocks and Energy segment includes the following businesses: Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl; Energy; Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol; and Hydrocarbons. The Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl business focuses on the production of chlorine for consumption by downstream Dow derivatives, as well as production, marketing and supply of ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride monomer and caustic soda. These products are used for applications such as alumina production, pulp and paper manufacturing, soaps and detergents, and building and construction. The Energy business supplies power, steam and other utilities, principally for use in Dows global operations. The Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol business is the worlds largest producer of purified ethylene oxide, principally used in Dows downstream performance derivatives. Dow is also a key supplier of ethylene glycol to MEGlobal, a 50:50 joint venture and world leader in the manufacture and marketing of merchant monoethylene glycol and diethylene glycol. Ethylene glycol is used in polyester fiber, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) for food and beverage container applications, polyester film, and aircraft and runway deicers. The
Hydrocarbons
business encompasses the procurement of natural gas liquids and crude oil-based raw materials, as well as the supply of monomers, principally for use in Dow's global operations. The business regularly sells its by-products and buys and sells products in order to balance regional production capabilities and derivative requirements. The business also sells products to certain Dow joint ventures. Also included in the Feedstocks and Energy segment are the results of Compaia Mega S.A., MEGlobal and a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C., and the SGC-Dow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
On March 2, 2010, Dow announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell Styron to an affiliate of Bain Capital Partners; the transaction closed on June 17, 2010. Businesses and products sold within the Feedstocks and Energy segment included certain styrene monomer assets, which were reported in the Feedstocks and Energy segment through the date of the divestiture. On September 30, 2009, the Company completed the sale of its ownership interest in the OPTIMAL Group of Companies, nonconsolidated affiliates, to Petroliam Nasional Berhad; a portion of the results were reported in the Feedstocks and Energy segment through the date of the divestiture. See Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these divestitures.
For the Feedstocks and Energy segment, there was no difference between actual and pro forma sales and EBITDA for 2009 and 2008.
 
2010 Versus 2009
Feedstocks and Energy sales were $8,457 million in 2010, up 33 percent from $6,346 million in 2009. Compared with last year, price was up 28 percent, with increases reported across all businesses and geographic areas. Volume improved 5 percent for the segment, as volume gains in the Hydrocarbons, Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl and Energy businesses more than offset declines in the Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol (EO/EG) business. Excluding divestitures, volume improved 23 percent. Sales for the Hydrocarbons business were up 40 percent with prices increasing 35 percent and volume increasing 5 percent. The increase in selling prices for the Hydrocarbons business was a result of higher feedstock and energy costs, driven by demand improvement across the industry, while product supply agreements with Styron led to an increase in trade sales volume compared with 2009. Sales for the Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl business increased 28 percent over 2009, driven by a 19 percent increase in price and 9 percent increase in volume. Within the business, vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) price and volume increased in response to higher ethylene costs and strong U.S. polyvinyl chloride (PVC) export demand, and caustic soda volume improved due to increased demand in the alumina and pulp and paper industries. Sales for the EO/EG business were down compared with 2009, as a 21 percent decrease in volume more than offset a 19 percent increase in price. EO/EG volume declined as expected, due to the business strategic shift to supply purified ethylene oxide to internal derivative businesses, and the closure of the Companys Wilton, England facility in January 2010.
Sales for the Energy business increased 34 percent compared with 2009, with volume up 31 percent and price up 3 percent. Sales for the Energy business are primarily opportunistic merchant sales driven by market conditions and sales to customers located on Dow manufacturing sites. Sales fluctuate as the Company
33
Table of Contents
balances energy supply and demand at its manufacturing sites; however, the improving economy offered more opportunities for merchant sales in 2010.
The Company uses derivatives of crude oil and natural gas as feedstock in its ethylene facilities. The Company's cost of purchased feedstock and energy increased $5.0 billion in 2010. Crude oil prices increased, and on average, 2010 prices were $18 per barrel (29 percent) higher than 2009 levels. North American natural gas prices also increased in 2010, and were approximately $0.50 per million Btu higher than in 2009, an increase of 13 percent.
The Hydrocarbons business transfers materials to Dow's derivative businesses and the Energy business supplies utilities to Dows businesses at net cost, resulting in EBITDA that is at or near break-even for both businesses. For the segment, EBITDA for 2010 was $471 million, down slightly from $477 million in 2009, which included a $457 million gain on the sale of the Company's ownership interest in TRN and a $193 million gain on the sale of the Companys ownership interest in OPTIMAL partially offset by $140 million of restructuring costs (see Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on restructuring charges). EBITDA in 2010 was impacted by higher prices and volume, improved operating rates and higher equity earnings from EQUATE, MEGlobal and The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C.
2009 Versus 2008
Feedstocks and Energy sales were $6,346 million in 2009, down 50 percent from $12,781 million in 2008. Both volume and prices were down across all businesses, primarily due to unfavorable supply/demand balances. Hydrocarbons sales were down 53 percent, the result of a 28 percent decrease in price and a 25 percent drop in volume. The decrease in selling prices in 2009 was driven by the impact of the global economic recession and the unprecedented decline of crude oil and other commodity prices that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continued into 2009. Volume declined sharply in 2009 due to lower ethylene cracker operating rates and lower refinery sales as a result of a planned maintenance and turnaround at TRN and the September 1, 2009 sale of the Company's ownership interest in TRN. Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl sales decreased 41 percent compared with 2008, with a 33 percent decrease in prices and an 8 percent decrease in volume. Prices for VCM were down compared with 2008 on weak demand in the housing and construction industries; volume was essentially unchanged as increased sales to customers exporting polyvinyl chloride offset the decline in North American domestic demand. Caustic soda sales were impacted by weak demand in the alumina, chemical processing and pulp and paper industries, driving both prices and volume down. Sales for the EO/EG business decreased 55 percent versus 2008, with a 32 percent decrease in volume and a 23 percent decrease in prices, as EG volume declined due to pressure from new industry capacity, and prices declined due to lower ethylene prices and weak demand.
The Company's cost of purchased feedstock and energy declined $10.2 billion (40 percent) in 2009. Crude oil prices decreased, and on average, 2009 prices were $36 per barrel (37 percent) lower than 2008 levels. North American natural gas prices also decreased significantly, and were approximately $5.04 per million Btu lower than in 2008, a decrease of 56 percent.
EBITDA for 2009 was $477 million, compared with $207 million in 2008. EBITDA for 2009 was positively impacted by a $457 million gain on the sale of the Company's ownership interest in TRN, a $193 million gain on the sale of the Companys ownership interest in OPTIMAL, offset by $140 million of restructuring costs. EBITDA in 2008 was negatively impacted by hurricane-related costs of $69 million and $84 million of restructuring charges related to the impairment or closure of several manufacturing facilities and (see Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on restructuring charges).
Feedstocks and Energy Outlook for 2011
The Feedstocks and Energy segment expects overall market conditions to be consistent with 2010. Crude oil and feedstocks are expected to remain volatile and sensitive to external factors such as economic activity and geopolitical tensions. In 2011, the Company expects crude oil prices, on average, to be higher than 2010. Demand is expected to grow in line with, or above, gross domestic product. Ethylene margins are expected to fluctuate due to variability in economic recovery and new industry capacity. VCM sales are expected to decline in 2011 due to the Companys planned reduction of North American VCM production capacity. Additional chlor-alkali industry capacity is expected to come on-line during the second half of 2011, but increasing global demand should keep supply and demand consistent with 2010. The EO/EG business is completing a strategic shift to produce purified EO for the internal Dow derivative businesses; this will result in lower sales volume in 2011.
In the fourth quarter of 2010, Dow and Mitsui & Co., Ltd. formed a 50:50 manufacturing joint venture to construct, own and operate a new membrane chlor-alkali facility located at Dows Freeport, Texas, integrated manufacturing complex. Construction is slated to begin in early 2011, and operations are expected to begin in mid-2013. The new facility will have an annual capacity of approximately 800 kilotons. Under contract to the joint venture, Dow will operate and maintain the facility and the joint venture is consolidated into Dows consolidated financial statements.
34
Table of Contents
CORPORATE
Included in the results for Corporate are:
2010 Actual Versus 2009 Pro Forma
Sales for Corporate, which for 2010 primarily related to the Companys insurance operations, were $332 million in 2010, down from $1,083 million in 2009, which also included the sales of Morton International, Inc. (Morton, the Salt business acquired with the Rohm and Haas acquisition) through the fourth quarter of 2009 divestiture of the business.
EBITDA for 2010 was a loss of $1,472 million, compared with a loss of $1,127 million in the same period last year.
EBITDA for 2010 was lower due to increased performance-based compensation (including stock-based compensation and increased expense related to higher employee participation in the Employees Stock Purchase Plan) and the absence of earnings from Morton. Additionally, EBITDA was reduced by integration costs of $143 million related to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas, $50 million of labor-related litigation costs, a charge of $47 million for an obligation related to a past divestiture, and a $46 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt. EBITDA for 2010 was favorably impacted by a $54 million reduction in the asbestos-related liability and $2 million in net adjustments to prior year restructuring plans.
EBITDA for 2009 was reduced by costs related to the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas of $362 million, including $166 million of other transaction and integration costs expensed in accordance with the accounting guidance for business combinations, $60 million of acquisition-related retention expenses, a $56 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt, and $80 million of transaction and other acquisition costs incurred by Rohm and Haas prior to the April 1, 2009 acquisition. EBITDA was also impacted by $224 million of 2009 restructuring charges, including employee-related severance expenses of $155 million, environmental obligations of $64 million, and $5 million of asset write-offs; plus $28 million in adjustments related to prior year restructuring plans. EBITDA for 2009 was further reduced by $7 million of IPR&D write-offs and $2 million of costs related to the 2008 hurricanes.
35
Table of Contents
2009 Versus 2008 (Pro Forma Comparison)
Sales for Corporate, which for 2009 and 2008 primarily related to Morton and the Companys insurance operations, were $1,083 million in 2009, down from $1,525 million in 2008, reflecting the fourth quarter 2009 divestiture of Morton.
EBITDA for 2009 was a loss of $1,127 million, compared with a loss of $1,089 million in 2008. EBITDA for 2009 was reduced by costs related to the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas of $362 million, $224 million of 2009 restructuring charges, $28 million in adjustments related to prior year restructuring plans, $7 million of IPR&D write-offs, and $2 million of costs related to the 2008 hurricanes.
EBITDA for 2008 was negatively impacted by $594 million of 2008 restructuring charges, including employee-related severance expense of $321 million, pension curtailment costs and termination benefits of $88 million, asset write-offs and environmental obligations of $21 million, Rohm and Haas restructuring charges of $162 million and net adjustments to prior year restructuring plans of $2 million. EBITDA for 2008 was also negatively impacted by legal expenses and other costs related to the K-Dow transaction of $69 million and the acquisition of Rohm and Haas of $103 million; and costs associated with the U.S. Gulf Coast hurricanes of $18 million. EBITDA for 2008 was favorably impacted by a $54 million reduction in the asbestos-related liability.
36
Table of Contents
37
Table of Contents
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
The Companys cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, are summarized in the following table:
Cash provided by operating activities in 2010 increased significantly compared with 2009 primarily due to increased earnings. Cash provided by operating activities in 2009 declined compared with 2008 due to an increase in working capital requirements primarily driven by an increase in trade accounts receivable. The increase in trade accounts receivable reflected the increase in sales toward the end of 2009 versus the end of 2008 primarily due to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas in 2009.
Cash provided by investing activities in 2010 reflected proceeds from the divestiture of Styron, as well as other smaller divestitures, proceeds from the change in restricted cash related to the consolidation of a variable interest entity (see Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and the usage of cash for capital expenditures. Cash used in investing activities in 2009 increased over 2008, reflecting the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas for $15,681 million and the purchase of a previously leased ethylene plant in Canada for $713 million, partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of the Companys interest in nonconsolidated affiliates (TRN for $742 million and OPTIMAL for $660 million), net proceeds from the sale of Morton ($1,576 million) and lower capital expenditures.
Cash used in financing activities in 2010 included payments on long-term debt and commercial paper, payments on notes payable related to the monetization of accounts receivable in Europe, and the payment of dividends to stockholders, partially offset by the proceeds from issuance of long-term debt. Cash provided by financing activities increased significantly in 2009, reflecting the funding for the acquisition of Rohm and Haas as discussed in further detail below, partially offset by the redemption of the preferred partnership units and accrued dividends of Tornado Finance V.O.F. of $520 million.
Management expects that the Company will continue to have sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility to meet all of its business obligations.
The Company has undertaken several restructuring plans during the past three years as follows:
The restructuring activities related to the 2008 Plan, the severance reserve assumed from Rohm and Haas and the 2009 Plan are expected to result in additional cash expenditures of approximately $240 million related to severance costs, contract termination fees, asbestos abatement and environmental remediation (see Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company expects to incur future costs related to its restructuring activities, as the Company continually looks for ways to
38
Table of Contents
enhance the efficiency and cost effectiveness of its operations to ensure competitiveness across its businesses and across geographic areas. Future costs are expected to include demolition costs related to the closed facilities, which will be recognized as incurred. The Company also expects to incur additional employee-related costs, including involuntary termination benefits and pension plan settlement costs, related to its other optimization activities. These costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Working capital increased from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010 principally due to increased cash and cash equivalents. At December 31, 2010, trade receivables were $4.6 billion, down from $5.7 billion at December 31, 2009, primarily due to a change in the way the sale of accounts receivable facilities are being recorded (see Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as the divestiture of Styron (see Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Days-sales-outstanding-in-receivables (excluding the impact of sales of receivables) was 43 days at December 31, 2010 compared with 45 days at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, total inventories were $7.1 billion, up from $6.8 billion at December 31, 2009. Days-sales-in-inventory at December 31, 2010 was 62 days versus 64 days at December 31, 2009.
At the end of 2009, the Companys net debt as a percent of total capitalization had risen to 48.0 percent, due to increased financing related to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas. As shown in the following table, net debt is equal to total debt minus Cash and cash equivalents. As Dow continues to strengthen its balance sheet and increase financial flexibility, management is principally focused on net debt, as Dow believes this is the best measure of the Companys financial leverage. By the end of 2010, net debt as a percent of total capitalization had been reduced to 42.6 percent.
Financing Activities
As part of its ongoing financing activities, Dow has the ability to issue promissory notes under its U.S. and Euromarket commercial paper programs. At December 31, 2010, the Company had no commercial paper outstanding. Through January 2011, the Company maintained access to the commercial paper market at competitive rates.
In the event Dow has short-term liquidity needs and is unable to issue commercial paper under these programs for any reason, Dow has the ability to access liquidity through its committed and available $3 billion Three Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated June 4, 2010 (the Revolving Credit Facility) with various U.S. and foreign banks. The Revolving Credit Facility has a maturity date in June 2013 and provides for interest at a LIBOR-plus rate or Base Rate as defined in the Agreement. The Revolving Credit Facility replaces the previous facility dated April 24, 2006. On March 9, 2009, the Company borrowed $3 billion under the previous facility, and the Company used the funds to finance its day-to-day operations, to repay indebtedness maturing in the ordinary course of business and for other general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2009, all outstanding balances had been repaid. At December 31, 2010, the full $3 billion Revolving Credit Facility was available to the Company.
39
Table of Contents
As a well-known seasoned issuer, the Company filed an automatic shelf registration for an unspecified amount of mixed securities with the SEC on February 19, 2010. Under this shelf registration, the Company may offer common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, debt securities, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units with pricing and availability dependent on market conditions; and, on February 19, 2010, registered an unlimited amount of securities for issuance under the Companys U.S. retail medium-term note program (InterNotes). At December 31, 2010, the Company had Euro 5 billion (approximately $6.7 billion) available for issuance under the Companys Euro Medium Term Note Program, as well as Japanese yen 50 billion (approximately $600 million) of securities available for issuance under a shelf registration renewed with the Tokyo Stock Exchange effective September 8, 2010, which will expire on September 7, 2012.
During 2010, the Company issued $537 million in InterNotes with varying maturities in 2015, 2017 and 2020, at various interest rates averaging 4.70 percent.
On September 8, 2010, the Company concluded a tender offer for any and all of $145 million of debentures acquired from Rohm and Haas, due June 2020. As a result of the tender offer, the Company redeemed $123 million of the debentures and recognized a $46 million pretax loss on this early extinguishment, included in Sundry income  net.
On November 4, 2010, the Company issued $2.5 billion of debt securities in a public offering. The offering included $750 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50 percent notes due 2016 and $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.25 percent notes due 2020.
On June 4, 2009, the preferred partner of Tornado Finance V.O.F., a consolidated foreign subsidiary of the Company, notified Tornado Finance V.O.F. that the preferred partnership units would be redeemed in full on July 9, 2009 as permitted by the terms of the partnership agreement. On July 9, 2009, the preferred partnership units and accrued dividends were redeemed for a total of $520 million. See Note V to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
On August 21, 2009, the Company executed a buy-back of Euro 175 million of private placement debt acquired from Rohm and Haas and recognized a $56 million pretax loss on early extinguishment, included in Sundry income  net.
Between May and December 2009, the Company issued $640 million in InterNotes with varying maturities in 2014, 2016 and 2019, at various interest rates averaging 6.45 percent.
Dows public debt instruments and documents for its private funding transactions contain, among other provisions, certain covenants and default provisions. The Companys most significant debt covenant with regard to its financial position is the obligation to maintain the ratio of the Companys consolidated indebtedness to consolidated capitalization at no greater than 0.65 to 1.00 at any time the aggregate outstanding amount of loans under the Revolving Credit Facility exceeds $500 million. The ratio of the Companys consolidated indebtedness to consolidated capitalization as defined in the credit agreements was 0.493 to 1.00 at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, management believes the Company was in compliance with all covenants and default provisions. For information on Dows covenants and default provisions, see Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Companys credit rating is investment grade. The Companys long-term credit ratings are BBB- with a positive outlook (Standard & Poors), Baa3 with a stable outlook (Moodys) and BBB with a stable outlook (Fitch). In the third quarter of 2010, Standard & Poors upgraded the Companys outlook from stable to positive, and in the fourth quarter of 2010, Moodys upgraded the Companys outlook from negative to stable. The Companys short-term credit ratings are A-3 (Standard & Poors), P-3 (Moodys) and F2 (Fitch). If the Companys credit ratings are downgraded, borrowing costs will increase on certain indentures, and it could have a negative impact on the Companys ability to access credit markets.
Financing Activities Related to the Acquisition of Rohm and Haas
On April 1, 2009, the Company completed the acquisition of Rohm and Haas. Pursuant to the July 10, 2008 Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), Ramses Acquisition Corp., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, merged with and into Rohm and Haas (the Merger), with Rohm and Haas continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Financing for the April 1, 2009 transaction included debt of $9.2 billion obtained through a Term Loan Agreement (Term Loan), as well as equity investments by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BHI) and the Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) in the form of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A of 3 million shares for $3 billion (BHI) and 1 million shares for $1 billion (KIA).
40
Table of Contents
In connection with the closing of the Merger, the Company entered into an Investment Agreement with certain trusts established by members of the Haas family (the Haas Trusts) and Paulson & Co. Inc. (Paulson), each of whom was a significant shareholder of Rohm and Haas common stock at the time of the Merger. Under the Investment Agreement, the Haas Trusts and Paulson purchased from the Company 2.5 million shares (Haas Trusts - 1.5 million shares; Paulson - 1.0 million shares) of Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (preferred series B) for an aggregate price of $2.5 billion, with $1.5 billion from the Haas Trusts and $1.0 billion from Paulson. The Haas Trusts made an additional investment in 0.5 million shares of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C (preferred series C) for an aggregate price of $500 million.
In May 2009, the Company entered into a purchase agreement with the Haas Trusts and Paulson, whereby the Haas Trusts and Paulson agreed to sell to the Company their shares of the preferred series B in consideration for shares of the Companys common stock and/or notes at the discretion of the Company.
On May 6, 2009, the Company launched a public offering of 150.0 million shares of its common stock. Included in the 150.0 million shares offered to the public were 83.3 million shares issued to the Haas Trusts and Paulson in a private transaction in consideration for 1.2 million shares of preferred series B, at par plus accrued dividends, held by the Haas Trusts and Paulson. Gross proceeds were $2,250 million, of which the Companys net proceeds (after underwriting discounts and commissions) were $966 million for the sale of the Companys 66.7 million shares.
On May 7, 2009, the Company issued $6 billion of debt securities in a public offering. The offering included $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 7.6 percent notes due 2014; $3.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 8.55 percent notes due 2019; and $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 9.4 percent notes due 2039. An aggregate principal amount of $1.35 billion of the 8.55 percent notes due 2019 were offered by accounts and funds managed by Paulson and the Haas Trusts. These investors received notes from the Company in payment for 1.3 million shares of preferred series B, at par plus accrued dividends. The Company used the net proceeds received from this offering for refinancing, renewals, replacements and refunding of outstanding indebtedness, including repayment of a portion of the Term Loan.
Upon the consummation of the above transactions, all shares of preferred series B were retired.
On May 26, 2009, the Company entered into an underwriting agreement and filed the corresponding shelf registration statement to effect the conversion of preferred series C into the Companys common stock. On June 9, 2009, following the end of the sale period and determination of the share conversion amount, the Company issued 31.0 million shares of common stock to the Haas Trusts and all shares of preferred series C were retired.
On August 4, 2009, the Company issued $2.75 billion of debt securities in a public offering. The offering included $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.85 percent notes due 2012; $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.90 percent notes due 2015; and $0.25 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due 2011. The Company used the net proceeds received from this offering for refinancing, renewals, replacements and refunding of outstanding indebtedness, including repayment of a portion of the Term Loan.
On October 1, 2009, the remaining balance of the Term Loan was fully repaid using proceeds from the sale of the Salt business. See Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the divestiture of the Salt business.
See Notes D, P, W and X to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the acquisition of Rohm and Haas and the corresponding financing activities.
Capital Expenditures
Capital spending for the year was $2,130 million (including $548 million of capital spending by consolidated variable interest entities); see Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on variable interest entities consolidated at January 1, 2010. Capital spending in 2009 was $1,683 million (including $273 million of capital spending by a consolidated variable interest entity); see Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on a variable interest entity consolidated in 2009. Capital spending in 2008 was $2,276 million. In 2010, approximately 39 percent of the Companys capital expenditures were directed toward additional capacity for new and existing products, compared with 43 percent in 2009 and 40 percent in 2008. In 2010, approximately 17 percent was committed to projects related to environmental protection, safety, loss prevention and industrial hygiene compared with 20 percent in 2009 and 18 percent in 2008. The remaining capital was utilized to maintain the Companys existing asset base, including projects related to productivity improvements, energy conservation and facilities support.
41
Table of Contents
Major projects underway during 2010 included: construction of a new propylene oxide production facility using hydrogen peroxide to propylene oxide technology, a distribution terminal and related infrastructure and utilities in Thailand; conversion of the St. Charles, Louisiana facility to produce only ethylene oxide to support the Companys business strategy to supply purified ethylene oxide to internal derivative customers; the design and construction of a new chlor-alkali production facility to replace existing facilities in Freeport, Texas; the installation of two new steam boilers in Stade, Germany; and the enhancement of caustic production assets in Freeport, Texas. Additional major projects included construction of a storage cavern for feedstock supply in Canada; new area headquarters and laboratory facilities in Brazil; new brine wells in Brazil; furnace rehabilitations to increase energy utilization in ethylene production at St. Charles, Louisiana; a new centrifugal ethylene compressor in Freeport, Texas to reduce spot purchases of ethylene; and the design and construction of the new Midland Business Process Service Center. Because the Company designs and builds most of its capital projects in-house, it had no material capital commitments other than for the purchase of materials from fabricators and construction labor. The Company expects capital spending in 2011 to be approximately $2.4 billion.
Contractual Obligations
The following tables summarize the Companys contractual obligations, commercial commitments and expected cash requirements for interest at December 31, 2010. Additional information related to these obligations can be found in Notes N, P, Q, R and Y to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted ASU 2009-17, Consolidations (Topic 810): Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities. ASU 2009-17 amends the consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities (VIEs) and requires additional disclosures concerning an enterprises continuing involvement with VIEs. The Company evaluated the impact of this guidance and determined that the adoption resulted in the January 1, 2010 consolidation of two additional joint ventures, an owner trust and an entity that was used to monetize accounts receivable. The Company also holds a variable interest in another joint venture accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The Company is not the primary beneficiary of the joint venture and therefore is not required to consolidate this entity. See Notes B and S to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
42
Table of Contents
Guarantees arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with customers and nonconsolidated affiliates when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others if specific triggering events occur. The Company had outstanding guarantees at December 31, 2010 of $836 million, down from $1,053 million at December 31, 2009. The decrease in maximum future payments from year-end 2009 was due to the consolidation of the Companys variable interest in an owner trust in the first quarter of 2010, with the adoption of ASU 2009-17 (see Notes B and S to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Additional information related to these guarantees can be found in the Guarantees section of Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the impact of adopting ASU 2009-16, Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, on January 1, 2010 and for additional information regarding the transfer of financial assets.
Fair Value Measurements
The Companys assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in the fair value hierarchy (Level 1, 2 or 3) based on the inputs used for valuation. Assets and liabilities that are traded on an exchange with a quoted price are classified as Level 1. Assets and liabilities that are valued based on a bid or bid evaluation are classified as Level 2. The custodian of the Companys debt and equity securities uses multiple industry-recognized vendors for pricing information and established processes for validation and verification to assist the Company in its process for determining and validating fair values for these assets. For pension or other post retirement benefit plan assets classified as Level 3, the total fair value is based on significant unobservable inputs including assumptions where there is little, if any, market activity for the investment. The sensitivity of fair value estimates is immaterial relative to the assets and liabilities measured at fair value, as well as to the total equity of the Company. See Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the Companys disclosures about fair value measurements.
Portfolio managers and external investment managers regularly review all of the Companys holdings to determine if any investments are other-than-temporarily impaired. The analysis includes reviewing the amount of the temporary impairment, as well as the length of time it has been impaired. In addition, specific guidelines for each instrument type are followed to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. For debt securities, the credit rating of the issuer, current credit rating trends and the trends of the issuers overall sector are considered in determining whether unrealized losses represent an other-than-temporary impairment. For equity securities, the Companys investments are primarily in Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 companies; however, the Company also allows investments in companies outside of the S&P 500. The Company considers the evidence to support the recovery of the cost basis of a security including volatility of the stock, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, value and growth expectations, and overall market and sector fundamentals, as well as technical analysis, in determining impairment. In 2010, other-than-temporary impairment write-downs were $5 million ($93 million in 2009).
Dividends
On December 8, 2010, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, payable January 28, 2011, to stockholders of record on December 31, 2010. On February 9, 2011, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, payable April 29, 2011, to stockholders of record on March 31, 2011. Since 1912, the Company has paid a cash dividend every quarter and, in each instance prior to February 12, 2009, had maintained or increased the amount of the dividend, adjusted for stock splits. During this 97-year period, Dow has increased the amount of the quarterly dividend 47 times (approximately 12 percent of the time), and maintained the amount of the quarterly dividend approximately 88 percent of the time. The dividend was reduced in February 2009, for the first time in the 97-year period, due to uncertainty in the credit markets, unprecedented lower demand for chemical products and the ongoing global recession. The Company declared dividends of $0.60 per share in 2010, $0.60 per share in 2009 and $1.68 per share in 2008.
On December 8, 2010, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $85 million to Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A shareholders of record on December 15, 2010, which was paid on January 3, 2011. On February 9, 2011, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $85 million to these shareholders, payable on April 1, 2011. Ongoing dividends related to Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A will accrue at the rate of $85 million per quarter, and are payable quarterly subject to Board of Directors approval.
43
Table of Contents
Outlook for 2011
In 2010, Dow and the chemical industry as a whole experienced another year of improving economic conditions. Economies across much of the developed world showed signs of ongoing recovery in most end-markets as the year progressed. Meanwhile, the emerging geographies continued to lead in economic growth and, as a result, were a critical area of focus for new business opportunities and investments. As the year came to a close, however, some challenges remained, such as high unemployment in developed geographies and weakness in construction end-markets, particularly in the United States and Europe. In the face of these challenges, Dow delivered a reshaped and transformed business portfolio in 2010 - one that is increasingly targeted to growing geographic areas and end-markets, and well-balanced to mitigate uncertainties. Furthermore, the Company continued to emphasize its commitment to financial discipline, completing capital market transactions and divesting non-core assets to reduce financial expense and strengthen its balance sheet.
Looking to 2011, Dow expects growth in the emerging geographies to continue, driven by a broad range of leading end-markets. The Company projects that these geographic areas will continue their high rate of growth, although year-over-year comparisons will be subdued relative to recent years. Signs of improvement in industrial end-markets in North America and Europe, coupled with ongoing strength in higher-growth sectors such as electronics, agriculture and packaging, give Dow greater optimism that growth will continue in the developed geographies. Despite these more favorable business conditions, the Company expects lingering challenges to remain, particularly slow employment growth in developed geographies. Furthermore, amid an environment of improving economic conditions, Dow expects feedstock and energy costs to remain at elevated levels, and volatility in these costs to continue. Within the chemical industry, the growing supply of natural gas liquids is expected to continue to benefit the competitiveness of U.S. chemical assets. Meanwhile, the start-up of new ethylene capacity outside of the United States and Europe remains a challenge to supply fundamentals across the ethylene chain and could put downward pressure on the profitability of higher-cost production assets within the industry.
The Company will continue to implement its strategic transformation while remaining focused on strengthening its balance sheet and preferentially investing in its Performance businesses and in emerging geographies. The Companys plans do not assume an accelerated rebound in business conditions. Rather, Dows success will continue to be driven by its transformed business portfolio, balanced geographic presence, and continued investments in innovations aimed at the intersection of greatest societal need and business opportunity.
The Company expects to generate positive cash flow from operations in 2011. Capital spending is expected to increase approximately $300 million from 2010 levels. Research and development spending is projected to remain at approximately the same level as 2010. Equity in earnings of Dows nonconsolidated affiliates is expected to improve above pre-recession levels, driven by robust fundamentals at the Companys principal joint ventures, particularly Dow Corning, EQUATE and The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C.
OTHER MATTERS
Recent Accounting Guidance
See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of recent accounting guidance.
Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Following are the Companys critical accounting policies impacted by judgments, assumptions and estimates:
Litigation
The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising out of the normal course of business. The Company routinely assesses the likelihood of any adverse outcomes to these matters, as well as ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of the reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is made after thoughtful analysis of each known claim. Dow has an active risk management program consisting of numerous insurance policies secured from many carriers. These policies provide coverage that is utilized to minimize the financial impact, if any, of the legal proceedings. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter. For further discussion, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
44
Table of Contents
Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation
Union Carbide Corporation (Union Carbide), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. (Amchem), are and have been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. Based on a study completed by Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) in January 2003, Union Carbide increased its December 31, 2002 asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims for the 15-year period ending in 2017 to $2.2 billion, excluding future defense and processing costs. Union Carbide also increased the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability to $1.35 billion at December 31, 2002. Since then, Union Carbide has compared current asbestos claim and resolution activity to the results of the most recent ARPC study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the asbestos-related liability continues to be appropriate. In addition, Union Carbide has requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity each November since 2004 to determine the appropriateness of updating the most recent ARPC study.
In November 2010, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its then most recent study completed in December 2008. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2010. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2010, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against Union Carbide and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2025 was estimated to be between $744 million and $835 million. As in its earlier studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2010 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
In December 2010, based on ARPCs December 2010 study and Union Carbides own review of asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to $744 million. The reduction was $54 million and is shown as Asbestos-related credits in the consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2010, the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $728 million.
Union Carbides receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $50 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, all of the receivable for insurance recoveries was related to insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and/or do not otherwise have agreements in place regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage.
The amounts recorded by Union Carbide for the asbestos-related liability and related insurance receivable were based upon current, known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed and/or received each year, the average cost of disposing of each such claim, coverage issues among insurers, and the continuing solvency of various insurance companies, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries for Union Carbide to be higher or lower than those projected or those recorded.
For additional information, see Legal Proceedings in the 2010 10-K, Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Environmental Matters
The Company determines the costs of environmental remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on evaluations of current law and existing technologies. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown environmental conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and emerging remediation technologies. The recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress, or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. In the case of landfills and other active waste management facilities, Dow recognizes the costs over the useful life of the facility. At December 31, 2010, the Company had accrued obligations of $607 million for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $59 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is managements best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately twice that amount. The Company had accrued obligations of $619 million at December 31, 2009 for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $80 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. For further discussion, see Environmental Matters in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes A and N to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
45
Table of Contents
Goodwill
The Company assesses goodwill recoverability through business financial performance reviews, enterprise valuation analysis, and impairment tests.
Annual goodwill impairment tests are completed during the Companys fourth quarter of the year in accordance with the subsequent measurement provisions of the accounting guidance for goodwill. The tests are performed at the reporting unit level which is defined as one level below operating segment with the exception of Agricultural Sciences, which is both an operating segment and a reporting unit. Reporting units are the level at which discrete financial information is available and reviewed by business management on a regular basis. The Company has defined six operating segments and 31 reporting units. Goodwill is carried by 19 of the Companys 31 reporting units.
In addition to the annual goodwill impairment tests, the Company reviews the financial performance of its reporting units over the course of the year to assess whether circumstances have changed that would more likely than not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit has declined below its carrying value. In cases where an indication of impairment is determined to exist, the Company completes an interim goodwill impairment test specifically for that reporting unit.
The Company utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology to calculate the fair value of its reporting units. This valuation technique has been selected by management as the most meaningful valuation method due to the limited number of market comparables for the Companys reporting units. However, where market comparables are available, the Company includes EBIT/EBITDA multiples as part of the reporting unit valuation analysis.
The discounted cash flow valuations are completed with the use of key assumptions, including projected revenue growth rate, discount rate, tax rate, currency exchange rates, terminal value, and long-term hydrocarbons and energy prices. These key assumptions are reevaluated with each annual impairment test and updated based on current facts and circumstances. Currency exchange rates, and long-term hydrocarbons and energy prices are established for the Company as a whole and applied consistently to all reporting units, while tax rates, revenue growth rates, terminal values (calculated using the key value driver implementation of the Gordon growth model), and discount rates are established by reporting unit to account for differences in business fundamentals and industry risk.
For the 2010 annual impairment test, currency exchange rates were projected by year for 66 currencies, and long-term hydrocarbons and energy prices were forecast by geographic area by year and included all key feedstocks as well as natural gas and crude oil (due to the correlation to naphtha). Tax rates varied by reporting unit with the average rate being 27 percent. Discount rates ranged from 8.1 percent to 10.5 percent based on an assessment of likely market participants and relative industry risk of each reporting unit. Terminal values were differentiated based on the cash flow projections of each reporting unit and the projected Net Operating Profit After Tax (NOPAT) growth rate, which ranged from negative 2.2 percent to positive 4.5 percent. Revenue growth rates, or Compounded Annual Growth Rates (CAGR) over a ten-year cash flow forecast period, varied by reporting unit based on underlying business fundamentals and future expectations with rates ranging from 1 percent to 15 percent.
Changes in key assumptions can affect the results of goodwill impairment tests. The changes made to key assumptions in 2010 did not result in a significant change in the impairment analysis conclusion. The key assumptions with the most significant impact on reporting unit fair value calculations include the discount rate and terminal value NOPAT growth rate. For the 2010 impairment test, management completed sensitivity analyses on both of these key assumptions. An increase of 100 basis points in the discount rate would have resulted in a fair value, based on discounted cash flows, which exceeded the carrying value for all of the Companys reporting units that carry goodwill. For the terminal value NOPAT growth rate, a decrease of 100 basis points would have resulted in a fair value, based on discounted cash flows, which exceeded the carrying value for all of the Companys reporting units that carry goodwill. Additional sensitivity analysis was completed on the combined impact of a 100 basis point increase in the discount rate and a 100 basis point decrease in the terminal value NOPAT growth rate. This analysis resulted in fair values, based on discounted cash flows, that exceeded carrying values for all reporting units that carry goodwill.
In completing the annual impairment test for 2010, management evaluated the reasonableness of differences noted between the fair value and carrying value of each reporting unit. All differences were determined to be reasonable.
Based on the fair value analysis completed by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2010, using the key assumptions defined for the Company as well as the key assumptions defined specifically for each reporting unit, management concluded that fair value exceeded carrying value for all reporting units that carry goodwill.
46
Table of Contents
The same analysis was completed by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2009 and management concluded that the fair value exceeded carrying value for all reporting units that carry goodwill except the Dow Haltermann reporting unit. As a result, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, which represented the total amount of goodwill carried by the Dow Haltermann reporting unit. Due to the conclusion that the goodwill associated with the Dow Haltermann reporting unit was impaired, management also initiated a review of the underlying assets of the reporting unit to assess whether or not any additional asset impairment existed. Based on the undiscounted cash flow analysis completed in accordance with ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment, no further impairment existed.
The Company also monitors and evaluates its market capitalization relative to book value. When the market capitalization of the Company falls below book value, management undertakes a process to evaluate whether a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of any of its reporting units has declined below carrying value. This evaluation process includes the use of third-party market-based valuations and internal discounted cash flow analysis. As part of the annual goodwill impairment test, the Company also compares market capitalization with the total estimated fair value of its reporting units to ensure that significant differences are understood. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Dows market capitalization exceeded book value.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
The amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to pension and other postretirement benefits are determined from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including expected return on plan assets, discount rates at which the liabilities could have been settled at December 31, 2010, rate of increase in future compensation levels, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are updated annually and are disclosed in Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, affect expense recognized and obligations recorded in future periods. The U.S. pension plans represent approximately 71 percent of the Companys pension plan assets and 72 percent of the pension obligations.
The following information relates to the U.S. plans only; a similar approach is used for the Companys non-U.S. plans.
The Company determines the expected long-term rate of return on assets by performing a detailed analysis of historical and expected returns based on the strategic asset allocation approved by the Board of Directors and the underlying return fundamentals of each asset class. The Companys historical experience with the pension fund asset performance is also considered. The expected return of each asset class is derived from a forecasted future return confirmed by historical experience. The expected long-term rate of return is an assumption and not what is expected to be earned in any one particular year. The weighted-average long-term rate of return assumption used for determining net periodic pension expense for 2010 was 8.16 percent. This assumption was unchanged for determining 2011 net periodic pension expense. Future actual pension expense will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the population of participants in the Companys pension plans.
The discount rates utilized to measure the pension and other postretirement obligations of the U.S. qualified plans are based on the yield on high-quality fixed income instruments at the measurement date. Future expected actuarially determined cash flows of Dows major U.S. plans are matched against the Towers Watson RATE:Link yield curve (based on 60th to 90th percentile bond yields) to arrive at a single discount rate by plan. The weighted average discount rate was 5.51 percent at December 31, 2010 and 5.97 percent at December 31, 2009.
At December 31, 2010, the U.S. qualified plans were underfunded on a projected benefit obligation basis by $3.3 billion. The underfunded amount increased by approximately $100 million compared with December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to lower discount rates partially offset by favorable plan asset returns and contributions during the year. The Company contributed $435 million to the U.S. qualified plans in 2010.
The assumption for the long-term rate of increase in compensation levels for the principal U.S. qualified plans was 4.50 percent. Since 2002, the Company has used a generational mortality table to determine the duration of its pension and other postretirement obligations.
47
Table of Contents
The following discussion relates to all of the Companys pension plans.
The Company bases the determination of pension expense or income on a market-related valuation of plan assets that reduces year-to-year volatility. This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose represent the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of plan assets and the actual return based on the market value of plan assets. Since the market-related value of plan assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of plan assets will be impacted when previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. Over the life of the plan, both gains and losses have been recognized and amortized. At December 31, 2010, net losses of $827 million remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of plan assets. These net losses will result in increases in future pension expense as they are recognized in the market-related value of assets and are a component of the total net loss of $6,696 million for 2010 shown under Pretax amounts recognized in AOCI at December 31 in the table entitled Change in Projected Benefit Obligations, Plan Assets and Funded Status of All Significant Plans included in Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The other $5,869 million of net losses represents cumulative changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions. The net decrease or increase in the market-related value of assets due to the recognition of prior gains and losses is presented in the following table:
 
Based on the 2011 pension assumptions and the changes in the market-related value of assets due to the recognition of prior asset losses, the Company expects net periodic benefit costs to increase by approximately $60 million for all pension and other postretirement benefits in 2011 compared with 2010.
A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the long-term return on assets assumption would change the Companys total pension expense for 2011 by approximately $41 million. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate assumption would change the Companys total pension expense for 2011 by approximately $50 million. A 25 basis point change in the long-term return and discount rate assumptions would have an immaterial impact on the other postretirement benefit expense for 2011.
Income Taxes
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Based on the evaluation of available evidence, both positive and negative, the Company recognizes future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered to be more likely than not.
At December 31, 2010, the Company had a net deferred tax asset balance of $1,290 million, after valuation allowances of $682 million.
In evaluating the ability to realize the deferred tax assets, the Company relies on, in order of increasing subjectivity, taxable income in prior carryback years, the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and forecasted taxable income using historical and projected future operating results.
At December 31, 2010, the Company had deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards of $1,957 million, $62 million of which is subject to expiration in the years 2011-2015. In order to realize these deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, the Company needs taxable income of approximately $6,790 million across multiple jurisdictions. The taxable income needed to realize the deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards that are subject to expiration between 2011-2015 is approximately $469 million.
48
Table of Contents
The Company recognizes the financial statement effects of an uncertain income tax position when it is more likely than not, based on technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination. At December 31, 2010, the Company had uncertain tax positions for both domestic and foreign issues of $319 million.
The Company accrues for non-income tax contingencies when it is probable that a liability to a taxing authority has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated. At December 31, 2010, the Company had a non-income tax contingency reserve for both domestic and foreign issues of $156 million.
For additional information, see Notes A and Y to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Environmental Matters
Environmental Policies
Dow is committed to world-class environmental, health and safety (EH&S) performance, as demonstrated by industry-leading performance, a long-standing commitment to Responsible Care
, and a strong commitment to achieve the Companys 2015 Sustainability Goals  goals that set the standard for sustainability in the chemical industry by focusing on improvements in Dows local corporate citizenship and product stewardship, and by actively pursuing methods to reduce the Companys environmental impact.
To meet the Companys public commitments, as well as the stringent laws and government regulations related to environmental protection and remediation to which its global operations are subject, Dow has well-defined policies, requirements and management systems. Dows EH&S Management System (EMS) defines the who, what, when and how needed for the businesses to achieve the Companys policies, requirements, performance objectives, leadership expectations and public commitments. To ensure effective utilization, the EMS is integrated into a company-wide management system for EH&S, Operations, Quality and Human Resources.
It is Dows policy to adhere to a waste management hierarchy that minimizes the impact of wastes and emissions on the environment. First, Dow works to eliminate or minimize the generation of waste and emissions at the source through research, process design, plant operations and maintenance. Second, Dow finds ways to reuse and recycle materials. Finally, unusable or non-recyclable hazardous waste is treated before disposal to eliminate or reduce the hazardous nature and volume of the waste. Treatment may include destruction by chemical, physical, biological or thermal means. Disposal of waste materials in landfills is considered only after all other options have been thoroughly evaluated. Dow has specific requirements for waste that is transferred to non-Dow facilities, including the periodic auditing of these facilities.
Dow believes third-party verification and transparent public reporting are cornerstones of world-class EH&S performance and building public trust. As such, numerous Dow sites in Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific and North America have received third-party verification of Dows compliance with Responsible Care
and with outside specifications such as ISO-14001. Dow continues to be a global champion of Responsible Care
and has worked to broaden the application and impact of Responsible Care
around the world through engagement with suppliers, customers and joint venture partners.
Dows EH&S policies helped the Company achieve excellent EH&S performance in 2010. In recognition, the Company was presented the esteemed National Safety Councils Robert W. Campbell Award for 2010. Dows injury/illness rates and process safety performance were excellent in 2010, and the Company is favorably positioned to achieve its 2015 sustainability goals in these key areas. Further improvement in these areas, as well as environmental compliance, remains a top management priority, with initiatives underway to further improve performance and compliance in 2011.
Detailed information on Dows performance regarding environmental matters and goals can be found online on Dows Sustainability webpage at
www.dow.com
.
Chemical Security
Public and political attention continues to be placed on the protection of critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concern about the security and safety of chemical production and distribution. Many, including Dow and the American Chemistry Council, have called for uniform risk-based and performance-based national standards for securing the U.S. chemical industry. The Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA) of 2002 and its regulations further set forth risk-based and performance-based standards that must be met at U.S. Coast Guard-regulated facilities. U.S. Chemical Plant Security legislation was passed in 2006 and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is now implementing the regulations known as the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards. The Company is complying with the requirements of the Rail Transportation Security Rule issued by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Dow continues to support uniform risk-based national standards for securing the chemical industry.
49
Table of Contents
The focus on security is not new to Dow. A comprehensive, multi-level security plan for the Company has been maintained since 1988. This plan, which has been activated in response to significant world and national events since then, is reviewed on an annual basis. Dow continues to improve its security plans, placing emphasis on the safety of Dow communities and people by being prepared to meet risks at any level and to address both internal and external identifiable risks. The security plan includes regular vulnerability assessments, security audits, mitigation efforts and physical security upgrades designed to reduce vulnerability. Dows security plans also are developed to avert interruptions of normal business work operations that could materially and adversely affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
Dow played a key role in the development and implementation of the American Chemistry Councils Responsible Care
Security Code, which requires that all aspects of security  including facility, transportation and cyberspace  be assessed and gaps addressed. Through the Companys global implementation of the Security Code, Dow has permanently heightened the level of security  not just in the United States, but worldwide. Dow employs several hundred employees and contractors in its Emergency Services and Security department worldwide.
Through the implementation of the Security Code, including voluntary security enhancements and upgrades made since 2002, Dow is well-positioned to comply with the new U.S. chemical facility regulations and other regulatory security frameworks. In addition, Dow was the first chemical company to receive coverage under the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act (SAFETY Act) from the DHS in 2007 for the Companys MTSA regulated sites, and the first to receive coverage under SAFETY Act in 2008 for the Companys Rail Transportation Security Services. This unprecedented certification helps validate Dows efforts and provides additional liability coverage in the event of a terrorist attack.
Dow continues to work collaboratively across the supply chain on Responsible Care
, Supply Chain Design, Emergency Preparedness, Shipment Visibility and transportation of hazardous materials. Dow is cooperating with public and private entities to lead the implementation of advanced tank car design, and track and trace technologies. Further, Dows Distribution Risk Review process that has been in place for decades was expanded to address potential threats in all modes of transportation across the Companys supply chain. To reduce vulnerabilities, Dow maintains security measures that meet or exceed regulatory and industry security standards in all areas in which the Company operates.
Dow continually works to strengthen partnerships with local responders, law enforcement and security agencies, and to enhance confidence in the integrity of the Companys security and risk management program, as well as strengthen its preparedness and response capabilities. Dow also works closely with its supply chain partners and strives to educate lawmakers, regulators and communities about the Companys resolve and actions to date that mitigate security and crisis threats.
Climate Change
Dow is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity (pounds of GHG per pound of product), developing climate-friendly products and processes and, over the longer term, implementing technology solutions to achieve even greater climate change improvements. Since 1990, Dow has reduced its absolute GHG emissions by more than 20 percent, a more rapid reduction than required by Kyoto Protocol targets. Since 1994, Dow has achieved a 22 percent improvement in energy intensity (the amount of energy required to produce one pound of product). In doing so, it has avoided consuming more than 1,700 trillion Btus, a savings that when converted to electricity would more than supply the residential electrical energy needs of California for one year. Through its energy savings, Dow has prevented approximately 90 million metric tons of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere. This trend could change, depending on business growth, capacity utilization and the pace of new technology development.
Dow, through its science and technology capabilities, is committed to bringing solutions to the challenge of climate change by producing products that help others reduce GHG emissions, such as lightweight plastics for automobiles and insulation for energy efficient homes and appliances. For example, Dows building insulation materials and air-sealing products can save up to 20 percent on heating and cooling costs and significantly reduce GHG emissions. The Companys STYROFOAM insulation is installed in over 20 million buildings worldwide, saving over $10 billion in energy costs annually. Dows DOWTHERM A heat transfer fluids are used in 14 large concentrating solar power plants, with a total capacity of over 700 megawatts. These plants will provide power for the equivalent of approximately 415,000 homes and save 1.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year.
Gains made toward Dows Energy Efficiency goal will directly impact progress in reducing GHG intensity. Dow is studying the life cycle impact of its products on climate change and additional global projects that could offset the Companys overall GHG emissions through carbon dioxide reduction. Although the Company has some units subject to the European
50
Table of Contents
Unions Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS), the Company has not experienced any considerable impact in regard to regulated GHG emissions from the EU ETS. Dow will continue to evaluate and monitor future developments that may affect operations in the region.
Dows Energy & Climate Change Policy and Issue Management Team is tasked with developing and implementing a comprehensive strategy that addresses the challenges of climate change and energy security and is advocating an international framework that establishes clear pathways to help slow, stop and reverse the rate of GHG emissions globally.
Environmental Remediation
Dow accrues the costs of remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on current law and existing technologies. The nature of such remediation includes, for example, the management of soil and groundwater contamination and the closure of contaminated landfills and other waste management facilities. In the case of landfills and other active waste management facilities, Dow recognizes the costs over the useful life of the facility. The accounting policies adopted to properly reflect the monetary impacts of environmental matters are discussed in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements. To assess the impact on the financial statements, environmental experts review currently available facts to evaluate the probability and scope of potential liabilities. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown environmental conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and emerging remediation technologies. These liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. Dow had an accrued liability of $548 million at December 31, 2010, related to the remediation of current or former Dow-owned sites. At December 31, 2009, the liability related to remediation was $539 million.
In addition to current and former Dow-owned sites, under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws (hereafter referred to collectively as Superfund Law), Dow is liable for remediation of other hazardous waste sites where Dow allegedly disposed of, or arranged for the treatment or disposal of, hazardous substances. Because Superfund Law imposes joint and several liability upon each party at a site, Dow has evaluated its potential liability in light of the number of other companies that also have been named potentially responsible parties (PRPs) at each site, the estimated apportionment of costs among all PRPs, and the financial ability and commitment of each to pay its expected share. The Companys remaining liability for the remediation of Superfund sites was $59 million at December 31, 2010 ($80 million at December 31, 2009). The Company has not recorded any third-party recovery related to these sites as a receivable.
Information regarding environmental sites is provided below:
 
Additional information is provided below for the Companys manufacturing sites in Freeport, Texas; Midland, Michigan; and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the sites for which the Company has the largest environmental remediation accruals; as well as a Superfund site in Wood-Ridge, New Jersey.
From the start of operations at the Freeport site in the 1940s until the mid-1970s, manufacturing wastes were typically placed in on-site pits and landfills. The resulting soil and groundwater contamination is being assessed and remediated under the provisions of the Resource Conservation Recovery Act (RCRA), in concert with the state of Texas. At December 31, 2010, the Company had an accrual of $28 million ($29 million at December 31, 2009) related to environmental remediation at the Freeport manufacturing site. In 2010, $3 million ($3 million in 2009) was spent on environmental remediation at the Freeport site.
51
Table of Contents
Similar to the Freeport site, in the early days of operations at the Midland site, manufacturing wastes were usually disposed of on-site, resulting in soil and groundwater contamination, which has been contained and managed on-site under a series of RCRA permits and regulatory agreements
.
The most recent Hazardous Waste Operating License for the Midland site, issued in 2003, also included provisions for the Company to conduct an investigation to determine the nature and extent of off-site contamination from historic Midland site operations. The scope of the investigation includes Midland area soils; the Tittabawassee and Saginaw River sediment and floodplain soils; and Saginaw Bay, and requires the Company to conduct interim response actions. In January 2010, the Company entered into a Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act Administrative Order on Consent to perform a Remedial Investigation, Feasibility Study and Remedial Design for the Tittabawassee and Saginaw River sediment and floodplain soils, and Saginaw Bay. See Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. At December 31, 2010, the Company had an accrual of $71 million ($64 million at December 31, 2009) for environmental remediation and investigation associated with the Midland site. In 2010, the Company spent $16 million ($19 million in 2009) on environmental remediation at the Midland site.
On April 1, 2009, the Company acquired Rohm and Haas Philadelphia Plant, which has been an industrial site since the early 1700s, and since the 1920s used by Rohm and Haas for the manufacture of a wide range of chemical products. Chemical disposal practices in the early years resulted in soil and groundwater contamination at the site and in the sediments of the adjacent Frankford Inlet. The site has undergone a number of investigations and interim cleanup measures under the RCRA Corrective Action Program, and in 2009, was transferred to the regulatory management of the Pennsylvania One Cleanup Program. At December 31, 2010, the Company had an accrual of $56 million ($58 million at December 31, 2009) for environmental remediation at the Philadelphia Plant. In 2010, the Company spent $1 million ($1 million in 2009, following the April 1, 2009 acquisition) on environmental remediation at the Philadelphia Plant.
Rohm and Haas is a lead PRP at the Wood-Ridge, New Jersey Ventron/Velsicol Superfund Site, and the adjacent Berrys Creek Study Area. Rohm and Haas is a successor in interest to a company that owned and operated a mercury processing facility, where wastewater and waste handling resulted in contamination of soils and adjacent creek sediments. The Ventron/Velsicol site is currently undergoing remediation. The Berrys Creek Study Area is under the preliminary remedial investigation phase and the PRP group is conducting an investigation of sediment contamination in Berrys Creek. Sediment removal was undertaken by the PRP group in 2009 in connection with an unrelated project to replace a flood control tidegate in the creek. At December 31, 2010, the Company had an accrual of $9 million ($25 million at December 31, 2009) for environmental remediation at the two Wood-Ridge sites. In 2010, the Company spent $22 million ($24 million in 2009, following the April 1, 2009 acquisition) on environmental remediation at the two Wood-Ridge sites.
In total, the Companys accrued liability for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs was $607 million at December 31, 2010, compared with $619 million at the end of 2009. This is managements best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately twice that amount. Consequently, it is reasonably possible that environmental remediation and restoration costs in excess of amounts accrued could have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. It is the opinion of the Companys management, however, that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of the range disclosed will have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to environmental remediation totaled $158 million in 2010, $269 million in 2009 and $140 million in 2008. The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to operating the Companys current pollution abatement facilities totaled $706 million in 2010, $675 million in 2009 and $723 million in 2008. Capital expenditures for environmental protection were $173 million in 2010, $219 million in 2009 and $193 million in 2008.
Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation
Introduction
Union Carbide Corporation (Union Carbide), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. These suits principally allege personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products and frequently seek both actual and punitive damages. The alleged claims primarily relate to products that Union Carbide sold in the past, alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products located on Union Carbides premises, and Union Carbides responsibility for asbestos suits filed against a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. (Amchem). In many cases, plaintiffs are unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any compensable loss as a result of such exposure, or that injuries incurred in fact resulted from exposure to Union Carbides products.
52
Table of Contents
Influenced by the bankruptcy filings of numerous defendants in asbestos-related litigation and the prospects of various forms of state and national legislative reform, the rate at which plaintiffs filed asbestos-related suits against various companies, including Union Carbide and Amchem, increased in 2001, 2002 and the first half of 2003. Since then, the rate of filing has significantly abated. Union Carbide expects more asbestos-related suits to be filed against Union Carbide and Amchem in the future, and will aggressively defend or reasonably resolve, as appropriate, both pending and future claims.
The table below provides information regarding asbestos-related claims filed against Union Carbide and Amchem:
 
Plaintiffs lawyers often sue numerous defendants in individual lawsuits or on behalf of numerous claimants. As a result, the damages alleged are not expressly identified as to Union Carbide, Amchem or any other particular defendant, even when specific damages are alleged with respect to a specific disease or injury. In fact, there are no personal injury cases in which only Union Carbide and/or Amchem are the sole named defendants. For these reasons and based upon Union Carbides litigation and settlement experience, Union Carbide does not consider the damages alleged against Union Carbide and Amchem to be a meaningful factor in its determination of any potential asbestos-related liability.
Estimating the Liability
Based on a study completed by Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) in January 2003, Union Carbide increased its December 31, 2002 asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims for the 15-year period ending in 2017 to $2.2 billion, excluding future defense and processing costs. Since then, Union Carbide has compared current asbestos claim and resolution activity to the results of the most recent ARPC study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the accrual continues to be appropriate. In addition, Union Carbide has requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity each November since 2004 to determine the appropriateness of updating the most recent ARPC study.
In November 2008, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its then most recent study completed in December 2006. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2008. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2008, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against Union Carbide and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2023 was estimated to be between $952 million and $1.2 billion. As in its earlier studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2008 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
In December 2008, based on ARPCs December 2008 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to $952 million, which covered the 15-year period ending 2023, excluding future defense and processing costs. The reduction was $54 million and is shown as Asbestos-related credits in the consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2008, the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $934 million.
In November 2009, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides 2009 asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its December 2008 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2009. In December 2009, ARPC stated that an update of its study would not provide a more likely estimate of future events than the estimate reflected in its study of the previous year and, therefore, the estimate in that study remained applicable. Based on Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity and ARPCs response, Union Carbide determined that no change to the accrual was required. At December 31, 2009, Union Carbides asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $839 million.
In November 2010, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its December 2008 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2010. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2010, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against Union Carbide and Amchem, excluding
53
Table of Contents
future defense and processing costs, through 2025 was estimated to be between $744 million and $835 million. As in its earlier studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2010 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
In December 2010, based on ARPCs December 2010 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to $744 million, which covered the 15-year period ending 2025, excluding future defense and processing costs. The reduction was $54 million and was shown as Asbestos-related credits in the consolidated statements of income. At December, 31, 2010, the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $728 million.
At December 31, 2010, approximately 21 percent of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately 79 percent related to future claims. At December 31, 2009, approximately 23 percent of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately 77 percent related to future claims.
Defense and Resolution Costs
The following table provides information regarding defense and resolution costs related to asbestos-related claims filed against Union Carbide and Amchem:
 
The average resolution payment per asbestos claimant and the rate of new claim filings has fluctuated both up and down since the beginning of 2001. Union Carbides management expects such fluctuations to continue in the future based upon a number of factors, including the number and type of claims settled in a particular period, the jurisdictions in which such claims arose, and the extent to which any proposed legislative reform related to asbestos litigation is being considered.
Union Carbide expenses defense costs as incurred. The pretax impact for defense and resolution costs, net of insurance, was $73 million in 2010, $58 million in 2009 and $53 million in 2008, and was reflected in Cost of sales in the consolidated statements of income.
Insurance Receivables
At December 31, 2002, Union Carbide increased the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability to $1.35 billion, substantially exhausting its asbestos product liability coverage. The insurance receivable related to the asbestos liability was determined by Union Carbide after a thorough review of applicable insurance policies and the 1985 Wellington Agreement, to which Union Carbide and many of its liability insurers are signatory parties, as well as other insurance settlements, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, and taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers. The Wellington Agreement and other agreements with insurers are designed to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of Union Carbides insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise.
In September 2003, Union Carbide filed a comprehensive insurance coverage case, now proceeding in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, seeking to confirm its rights to insurance for various asbestos claims and to facilitate an orderly and timely collection of insurance proceeds (the Insurance Litigation). The Insurance Litigation was filed against insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and/or do not otherwise have agreements in place with Union Carbide regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage, in order to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of such insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise. Since the filing of the case, Union Carbide has reached settlements with several of the carriers involved in the Insurance Litigation, including settlements reached with two significant carriers in the fourth quarter of 2009. The Insurance Litigation is ongoing.
Union Carbides receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $50 million at December 31, 2010 and $84 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, all of the receivable for insurance recoveries was related to insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and/or do not otherwise have agreements in place regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage.
54
Table of Contents
In addition to the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability, Union Carbide had receivables for defense and resolution costs submitted to insurance carriers that have settlement agreements in place regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage. The following table summarizes Union Carbides receivables related to its asbestos-related liability:
 
After a review of its insurance policies, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, after taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers; existing insurance settlements; and the advice of outside counsel with respect to the applicable insurance coverage law relating to the terms and conditions of its insurance policies, Union Carbide continues to believe that its recorded receivable for insurance recoveries from all insurance carriers is probable of collection.
Summary
The amounts recorded by Union Carbide for the asbestos-related liability and related insurance receivable described above were based upon current, known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed and/or received each year, the average cost of disposing of each such claim, coverage issues among insurers, and the continuing solvency of various insurance companies, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries for Union Carbide to be higher or lower than those projected or those recorded.
Because of the uncertainties described above, Union Carbides management cannot estimate the full range of the cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims facing Union Carbide and Amchem. Union Carbides management believes that it is reasonably possible that the cost of disposing of Union Carbides asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on Union Carbides results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of Union Carbide.
It is the opinion of Dows management that it is reasonably possible that the cost of Union Carbide disposing of its asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of the Company.
55
Table of Contents
Matters Involving the Formation of K-Dow Petrochemicals
Introduction
On December 13, 2007, the Company and Petrochemical Industries Company (K.S.C.) (PIC) of Kuwait, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC), announced plans to form a 50:50 global petrochemicals joint venture. The proposed joint venture, K-Dow Petrochemicals (K-Dow), was expected to have revenues of more than $11 billion and employ more than 5,000 people worldwide.
On November 28, 2008, the Company entered into a Joint Venture Formation Agreement (the JVFA) with PIC that provided for the establishment of K-Dow. To form the joint venture, the Company would transfer by way of contribution and sale to K-Dow, assets used in the research, development, manufacture, distribution, marketing and sale of polyethylene, polypropylene, polycarbonate, polycarbonate compounds and blends, ethyleneamines, ethanolamines, and related licensing and catalyst technologies; and K-Dow would assume certain related liabilities. PIC would receive a 50-percent equity interest in K-Dow in exchange for the payment by PIC of the initial purchase price, estimated to be $7.5 billion. The purchase price was subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
Failure to Close
On December 31, 2008, the Company received a written notice from PIC with respect to the JVFA advising the Company of PICs position that certain conditions to closing were not satisfied and, therefore, PIC was not obligated to close the transaction. On January 2, 2009, PIC refused to close the K-Dow transaction in accordance with the JVFA. The Company disagrees with the characterizations and conclusions expressed by PIC in the written notice and the Company has informed PIC that it breached the JVFA. On January 6, 2009, the Company announced that it would seek to fully enforce its rights under the terms of the JVFA and various related agreements.
Arbitration
The Companys claims against PIC are subject to an arbitration agreement between the parties, which provides for arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. On February 18, 2009, the Company initiated arbitration proceedings against PIC alleging that PIC breached the JVFA by failing to close the transaction on January 2, 2009. The Company is seeking damages in excess of $2.5 billion in the arbitration proceeding.
56
Table of Contents
PART II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
The Dow Chemical Company:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Dow Chemical Company and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, equity, comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (a) 2. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Dow Chemical Company and subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in
Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 18, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Midland, Michigan
February 18, 2011 (November 1, 2011 as to the effects of the retrospective adjustments in Notes C, E, H, I and Z)
57
Table of Contents
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Income
 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
58
Table of Contents
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheets
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
.
59
Table of Contents
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
60
Table of Contents
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Equity
 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
61
Table of Contents
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
62
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
NOTE
A
 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of The Dow Chemical Company and its subsidiaries (Dow or the Company) were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and include the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of all majority-owned subsidiaries over which the Company exercises control and, when applicable, entities for which the Company has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary. Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation. Investments in nonconsolidated affiliates (20-50 percent owned companies, joint ventures and partnerships) are accounted for using the equity method.
Certain changes to prior year balance sheet amounts have been made in accordance with the accounting guidance for business combinations to reflect adjustments made during the measurement period to provisional amounts recorded for assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Rohm and Haas Company (Rohm and Haas) on April 1, 2009. Certain changes have been made to geographic area information for prior years to reflect changes made in the first quarter of 2010. Certain changes have been made to operating segment information to reflect changes made in the third quarter of 2011 related to changes in the Companys organization. A change to current year balance sheet amounts has been made to properly classify the current portion of "Deferred charges and other assets" of
$349 million
to "Other current assets."
63
Table of Contents
Use of Estimates in Financial Statement Preparation
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Companys consolidated financial statements include amounts that are based on managements best estimates and judgments. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Foreign Currency Translation
The local currency has been primarily used as the functional currency throughout the world. Translation gains and losses of those operations that use local currency as the functional currency are included in the consolidated balance sheets in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). Where the U.S. dollar is used as the functional currency, foreign currency gains and losses are reflected in income.
Environmental Matters
Accruals for environmental matters are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on current law and existing technologies. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessment and remediation efforts progress or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. Accruals for environmental liabilities are included in the consolidated balance sheets in Accrued and other current liabilities and Other noncurrent obligations at undiscounted amounts. Accruals for related insurance or other third-party recoveries for environmental liabilities are recorded when it is probable that a recovery will be realized and are included in the consolidated balance sheets as Accounts and notes receivable - Other.
Environmental costs are capitalized if the costs extend the life of the property, increase its capacity, and/or mitigate or prevent contamination from future operations. Environmental costs are also capitalized in recognition of legal asset retirement obligations resulting from the acquisition, construction and/or normal operation of a long-lived asset. Costs related to environmental contamination treatment and cleanup are charged to expense. Estimated future incremental operations, maintenance and management costs directly related to remediation are accrued when such costs are probable and reasonably estimable.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include time deposits and readily marketable securities with original maturities of three months or less.
Financial Instruments
The Company calculates the fair value of financial instruments using quoted market prices whenever available. When quoted market prices are not available for various types of financial instruments (such as forwards, options and swaps), the Company uses standard pricing models with market-based inputs that take into account the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The Company utilizes derivatives to manage exposures to currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rate risk. The fair values of all derivatives are recognized as assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date. Changes in the fair value of these instruments are reported in income or AOCI, depending on the use of the derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting treatment.
Gains and losses on derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedging instruments are recorded in AOCI, to the extent the hedges are effective, until the underlying transactions are recognized in income. To the extent effective, gains and losses on derivative and nonderivative instruments used as hedges of the Companys net investment in foreign operations are recorded in AOCI as part of the cumulative translation adjustment. The ineffective portions of cash flow hedges and hedges of net investment in foreign operations, if any, are recognized in income immediately.
Gains and losses on derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedging instruments, as well as the offsetting losses and gains on the hedged items, are reported in income in the same accounting period. Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments are marked-to-market at the end of each accounting period with the results included in income.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The method of determining cost for each subsidiary varies among last-in, first-out (LIFO); first-in, first-out (FIFO); and average cost, and is used consistently from year to year.
64
Table of Contents
Property
Land, buildings and equipment, including property under capital lease agreements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is based on the estimated service lives of depreciable assets and is calculated using the straight-line method, unless the asset was capitalized before 1997 when the declining balance method was used. Fully depreciated assets are retained in property and accumulated depreciation accounts until they are removed from service. In the case of disposals, assets and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts, and the net amounts, less proceeds from disposal, are included in income.
Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
The Company evaluates long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. When undiscounted future cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover an assets carrying amount, the asset is written down to its fair value based on bids received from third parties or a discounted cash flow analysis based on market participant assumptions.
Long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale are classified as held for sale and are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, and depreciation is ceased. Long-lived assets to be disposed of other than by sale are classified as held and used until they are disposed of and are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value, and depreciation is recognized over the remaining useful life of the assets.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The Company records goodwill when the purchase price of a business acquisition exceeds the estimated fair value of net identified tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit has more likely than not declined below its carrying value. The Company primarily utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology to calculate the fair value of its reporting units.
Finite-lived intangible assets such as purchased customer lists, licenses, intellectual property, patents, trademarks and software, are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally on a straight-line basis for periods ranging primarily from three to twenty years. Finite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment or obsolescence annually, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an intangible asset may not be recoverable. If impaired, intangible assets are written down to fair value based on discounted cash flows.
Asset Retirement Obligations
The Company records asset retirement obligations as incurred and reasonably estimable, including obligations for which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the Company. The fair values of obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis and are accreted over time for the change in present value. Costs associated with the liabilities are capitalized and amortized over the estimated remaining useful life of the asset, generally for periods of
10
years or less.
Investments
Investments in debt and marketable equity securities (including warrants), primarily held by the Companys insurance operations, are classified as trading, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. Investments classified as trading are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in income. Those classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recorded in AOCI. Those classified as held-to-maturity are recorded at amortized cost. The cost of investments sold is determined by specific identification. The Company routinely reviews available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities for other-than-temporary declines in fair value below the cost basis, and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable, the security is written down to fair value, establishing a new cost basis.
Revenue
Sales are recognized when the revenue is realized or realizable, and the earnings process is complete. Approximately
99 percent
 of the Companys sales in
2010
related to sales of product. The remaining
1 percent
in
2010
related to the Companys service offerings, insurance operations, and licensing of patents and technology. Revenue for product sales is recognized as risk and title to the product transfer to the customer, which usually occurs at the time shipment is made. As such, title to the product passes when the product is delivered to the freight carrier. Dows standard terms of delivery are included in its contracts of sale, order confirmation documents and invoices. Freight costs and any directly related costs of transporting finished product to customers are recorded as Cost of sales.
65
Table of Contents
Revenue related to the Companys insurance operations includes third-party insurance premiums, which are earned over the terms of the related insurance policies and reinsurance contracts. Revenue related to the initial licensing of patents and technology is recognized when earned; revenue related to running royalties is recognized according to licensee production levels.
Legal Costs
The Company expenses legal costs, including those legal costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred.
Severance Costs
The Company routinely reviews its operations around the world in an effort to ensure competitiveness across its businesses and geographic areas. When the reviews result in a workforce reduction related to the shutdown of facilities or other optimization activities, severance benefits are provided to employees primarily under Dows ongoing benefit arrangements. These severance costs are accrued under the guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 712, Compensation  Nonretirement Postemployment Benefits, once management commits to a plan of termination including the number of employees to be terminated, their job classifications or functions, their locations and the expected completion date.
Income Taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted rates. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
Annual tax provisions include amounts considered sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examinations of prior year tax returns; however, the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued.
The Company recognizes the financial statement effects of an uncertain income tax position when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination. The Company accrues for other tax contingencies when it is probable that a liability to a taxing authority has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated. The current portion of uncertain income tax positions is included in Income taxes payable and the long-term portion is included in Other noncurrent obligations in the consolidated balance sheets.
Provision is made for taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and related companies to the extent that such earnings are not deemed to be permanently invested.
Earnings per Common Share
The calculation of earnings per common share is based on the weighted-average number of the Companys common shares outstanding for the applicable period. The calculation of diluted earnings per common share reflects the effect of all potential dilutive common shares that were outstanding during the respective periods, unless the effect of doing so is antidilutive.
NOTE
B
 RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE
Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance
On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-16, Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets. This ASU is intended to improve the information provided in financial statements concerning transfers of financial assets, including the effects of transfers on financial position, financial performance and cash flows, and any continuing involvement of the transferor with the transferred financial assets. The Company evaluated the impact of adopting the guidance and the terms and conditions in place at January 1, 2010 and determined that certain sales of accounts receivable would be classified as secured borrowings. Under the Companys sale of accounts receivable arrangements,
$915 million
was outstanding at January 1, 2010. The maximum amount of receivables available for participation in these programs was
$1,939 million
at January 1, 2010. See Note O for additional information about transfers of financial assets.
66
Table of Contents
On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted ASU 2009-17, Consolidations (Topic 810): Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, which amended the consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities and required additional disclosures concerning an enterprises continuing involvement with variable interest entities. The Company evaluated the impact of this guidance and determined that the adoption resulted in the consolidation of two additional joint ventures, an owner trust and an entity that was used to monetize accounts receivable. At January 1, 2010,
$793 million
in assets (net of tax, including the impact on Investment in nonconsolidated affiliates),
$941 million
in liabilities,
$100 million
in noncontrolling interests and a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings of
$248 million
were recorded as a result of the adoption of this guidance. See Note S for additional information about variable interest entities.
On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted ASU 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements, which added disclosure requirements about transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 and separate disclosures about activity relating to Level 3 measurements and clarifies existing disclosure requirements related to the level of disaggregation and input and valuation techniques. See Note K for additional disclosures about fair value measurements.
Accounting Guidance Issued But Not Adopted as of
December 31, 2010
In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements  a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force, which amends the criteria for when to evaluate individual delivered items in a multiple deliverable arrangement and how to allocate consideration received. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The adoption of the guidance on January 1, 2011 is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
NOTE
C
 RESTRUCTURING
2009 Restructuring
On June 30, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan related to the Companys acquisition of Rohm and Haas Company (Rohm and Haas) as well as actions to advance the Companys strategy and to respond to continued weakness in the global economy. The restructuring plan included the elimination of approximately
2,500
positions primarily resulting from synergies to be achieved as a result of the acquisition of Rohm and Haas. In addition, the plan included the shutdown of a number of manufacturing facilities. These actions are expected to be completed primarily by the end of 2011. As a result of the restructuring activities, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges of
$677 million
in the second quarter of 2009, consisting of asset write-downs and write-offs of
$454 million
, costs associated with exit or disposal activities of
$68 million
and severance costs of
$155 million
. The impact of the charges is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the Companys segment results as shown in the following table, which also reflects adjustments made in 2009 to the 2009 plan, the 2008 plan (as discussed below and in the sections titled 2008 Restructuring) and the 2007 plan.
67
Table of Contents
Details regarding the components of the 2009 restructuring charges and adjustments to restructuring charges are discussed below:
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Other Assets
The restructuring charges related to the write-down or write-off of assets totaled
$454 million
. Write-downs were related to Dows facilities located in Hahnville and Plaquemine, Louisiana; the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) required divestiture of certain acrylic monomer and specialty latex assets in North America; and other small manufacturing facilities where the acquisition of Rohm and Haas resulted in overlapping manufacturing capabilities. Details regarding these write-downs or write-offs are as follows:
 
The restructuring charges in the second quarter of 2009 also included the write-off of capital project spending (
$20 million
) and other assets (
$7 million
) associated with plant closures. These charges were reflected in the results of the operating segments impacted by the restructuring activities.
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
The restructuring charges for costs associated with exit or disposal activities totaled
$68 million
in the second quarter of 2009 and included environmental remediation of
$64 million
, impacting Corporate, with the remainder relating to contract termination fees and other charges. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company increased the reserve by
$13 million
to reflect additional expense for pension settlements related to the Rohm and Haas acquisition.
Severance Costs
The restructuring charges included severance of
$155 million
for the separation of approximately
2,500
 employees under the terms of the Companys ongoing benefit arrangements, primarily over
two
years. These costs were charged against Corporate. At December 31, 2009, severance of
$72 million
had been paid and a currency adjusted liability of
$84 million
remained for approximately
1,221
 employees. At December 31, 2010, severance of
$149 million
had been paid and a currency adjusted liability of
$6 million
remained for approximately
189
 employees, with anticipated departure dates scheduled primarily in the first quarter of 2011.
68
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the activities related to the Companys restructuring reserve:
 
Dow expects to incur future costs related to its restructuring activities, as the Company continually looks for ways to enhance the efficiency and cost effectiveness of its operations, and to ensure competitiveness across its businesses and across geographic areas. Future costs are expected to include demolition costs related to the closed facilities, which will be recognized as incurred. The Company also expects to incur additional employee-related costs, including involuntary termination benefits, related to its other optimization activities. These costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
2010 Adjustments to 2009 and 2008 Restructuring Plans
In the first quarter of 2010, the Company recorded an additional
$8 million
charge to adjust the impairment of long-lived assets and other assets related to the FTC required divestitures completed in the first quarter of 2010, and an additional
$8 million
charge related to the shutdown of a small manufacturing facility under the 2009 restructuring plan. The impact of these charges is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the following operating segments: Electronic and Functional Materials (
$8 million
) and Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions (
$8 million
).
In the second quarter of 2010, the Company recorded additional restructuring charges of
$13 million
, which included the write-off of other assets of
$5 million
, additional costs associated with exit or disposal activities of
$7 million
and additional severance of
$1 million
related to the FTC required divestitures that were included in the 2009 restructuring plan. The impact of these charges is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions (
$12 million
) and Corporate (
$1 million
).
In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company decreased the severance reserve for the 2008 restructuring plan by
$3 million
to adjust the reserve to the remaining future payments. The impact of this adjustment is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in Corporate.
2009 Adjustments to 2008 and 2007 Restructuring Plans
In the first quarter of 2009, the Company increased the severance reserve for the 2008 restructuring plan by
$19 million
, for an additional workforce reduction of approximately
500
 employees. The increase was reflected in Corporate.
In the second quarter of 2009, the Company reduced the 2007 restructuring reserve related to contract termination fees by
$15 million
as a result of the Companys acquisition of Rohm and Haas, impacting the Agricultural Sciences segment. The initial liability established in 2007 included contract termination fees related to the cancellation of contract manufacturing agreements between the Company and Rohm and Haas. Following completion of the acquisition, the liability for these fees was reversed.
In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company reduced the severance reserve for the 2007 restructuring plan by
$5 million
as redeployment opportunities for affected employees were identified. The decrease was reflected in Corporate.
69
Table of Contents
Restructuring Reserve Assumed from Rohm and Haas
Included in liabilities assumed in the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas was a reserve of
$122 million
for severance and employee benefits for the separation of
1,255
 employees under the terms of Rohm and Haas ongoing benefit arrangement. The separations resulted from plant shutdowns, production schedule adjustments, productivity improvements and reductions in support services. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company decreased the severance reserve assumed from Rohm and Haas by
$9 million
, recorded in Cost of sales, to adjust the reserve to the expected future severance payments. In the nine-month period following the acquisition, severance of
$43 million
was paid, leaving a currency adjusted liability of
$68 million
for approximately
552
 employees at December 31, 2009.
In the second quarter of 2010, the Company decreased the restructuring reserve
$10 million
due to the divestiture of the Powder Coatings business and to adjust the reserve to expected future severance payments. In the second half of 2010, the Company decreased the restructuring reserve
$24 million
to adjust the reserve to expected future severance payments. The impact of these adjustments is shown as Cost of sales in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in Corporate. In 2010, severance of
$25 million
was paid, leaving a currency adjusted liability of
$12 million
at December 31, 2010;
$5 million
for employees who have left the Company and will continue to receive annuity payments primarily through the third quarter of 2011 and
$7 million
for approximately
44
 employees. Cash payments are expected to be complete by mid-2011.
2008 Restructuring
On December 5, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan as part of a series of actions to advance the Companys strategy and respond to the severe economic downturn. The restructuring plan included the shutdown of a number of facilities and a global workforce reduction, which were substantially completed in 2010. As a result of the shutdowns and global workforce reduction, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges of
$785 million
in the fourth quarter of 2008. The charges consisted of asset write-downs and write-offs of
$336 million
, costs associated with exit or disposal activities of
$128 million
and severance costs of
$321 million
. The impact of the charges is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in the Companys segment results as shown in the following table, which also reflects adjustments made in 2008 to the 2007 and 2006 restructuring charges.
70
Table of Contents
Details regarding the components of the 2008 restructuring charges are discussed below:
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Other Assets
The restructuring charges related to the write-down or write-off of assets in 2008 totaled
$336 million
and included the impact of plant closures and impairments of
$288 million
. The most significant write-downs were related to Dows facilities located in Oyster Creek, Freeport, Seadrift and Texas City, Texas; Pittsburg, California; Terneuzen, The Netherlands; Varennes, Quebec, Canada; Plaquemine, Louisiana; Aratu, Brazil; Kings Lynn and Wilton, England; assets related to the pending sale of the automotive sealants business in Europe; and project investment costs related to a potential joint venture in Oman. Details regarding these write-downs or write-offs are as follows:
 
71
Table of Contents
The restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 also included the write-off of capital project spending (
$13 million
); spare parts (
$9 million
) and catalysts (
$6 million
) associated with plant closures; other assets (
$5 million
); as well as a loss on the sale of inventory (
$15 million
) associated with the divestiture of the automotive sealants business in Europe. These write-offs were related to the businesses involved in the shutdown of assets and were therefore reflected in the results of various operating segments.
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
The restructuring charges for costs associated with exit or disposal activities totaled
$128 million
in 2008 and included pension curtailment costs and termination benefits of
$88 million
reflected in Corporate; and environmental remediation and asbestos abatement of
$40 million
primarily impacting Performance Materials and Corporate.
Severance Costs
As a result of the Companys decision to shut down assets around the world and implement a global workforce reduction, the restructuring charges included severance of
$321 million
for the separation of approximately
3,000
 employees under the terms of Dows ongoing benefit arrangements. These costs were charged against Corporate. In the first quarter of 2009, the Company increased the severance reserve by
$19 million
, including approximately
500
 additional employees. At
December 31, 2009
, severance of
$289 million
had been paid and a currency adjusted liability of
$53 million
remained for approximately
293
employees. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company decreased the severance reserve by
$3 million
to adjust the reserve to the remaining future payments. The impact of this adjustment is shown as Restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of income and was reflected in Corporate. At
December 31, 2010
, severance of
$316 million
had been paid and employee separations were substantially complete. A currency adjusted liability of
$22 million
remained at
December 31, 2010
, largely for employees who have left the Company and will continue to receive annuity payments primarily through 2018.
72
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the activities related to the Companys restructuring reserve:
 
The shutdowns and optimization activities related to the 2008 restructuring plan were substantially complete in 2010, with remaining liabilities primarily related to pension, environmental remediation and severance to be paid over time.
2008 Adjustments to 2007 and 2006 Restructuring Plans
In 2008, adjustments were made to the 2007 restructuring plan to increase the reserve for environmental remediation
$5 million
(impacting Corporate). The 2007 restructuring reserve was also increased
$5 million
for contract termination fees, reflected in Performance Materials (
$2 million
) and Agricultural Sciences (
$3 million
). In the fourth quarter of 2008, Ptromont, a nonconsolidated affiliate, announced the permanent shutdown of its operations. As a result of this announcement, the Company recorded an additional charge of
$50 million
against the 2007 restructuring plan (impacting the Performance Plastics segment).
In 2008, adjustments were made to the 2006 restructuring plan to decrease the reserve for environmental remediation
$3 million
(impacting the Feedstocks and Energy segment) and to decrease the severance reserve
$3 million
(impacting Corporate).
NOTE
D
 ACQUISITIONS
Acquisition of Rohm and Haas
On April 1, 2009, the Company completed the acquisition of Rohm and Haas. Pursuant to the July 10, 2008 Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), Ramses Acquisition Corp., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, merged with and into Rohm and Haas (the Merger), with Rohm and Haas continuing as the surviving corporation and becoming a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company pursued the acquisition of Rohm and Haas to make the Company a leading specialty chemicals and advanced materials company, combining the two organizations best-in-class technologies, broad geographic reach and strong industry channels to create a business portfolio with significant growth opportunities.
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Rohm and Haas common stock was converted into the right to receive cash of
$78
 per share, plus additional cash consideration of
$0.97
per share. The additional cash consideration represented
8 percent
 per annum on the
$78
 per share consideration from January 10, 2009 to the closing of the Merger, less dividends declared by Rohm and Haas with a dividend record date between January 10, 2009 and the closing of the Merger. All options to purchase shares of common stock of Rohm and Haas granted under the Rohm and Haas stock option plans and all other Rohm and Haas equity-based compensation awards, whether vested or unvested as of April 1, 2009, became fully vested and converted into the right to receive cash of
$78.97
per share, less any applicable exercise price. Total cash consideration paid to Rohm and Haas shareholders was
$15,681 million
. As part of the purchase price,
$552 million
in cash was paid to the Rohm and Haas Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan (Rohm and Haas ESOP) on April 1, 2009 for
7.0 million
shares of Rohm and Haas common stock held by the Rohm and Haas ESOP.
73
Table of Contents
As a condition of the FTCs approval of the Merger, the Company was required to divest a portion of its acrylic monomer business, a portion of its specialty latex business and its hollow sphere particle business. The Company completed the sale of these businesses in 2010 (see Note E). Total net sales and cost of sales for these businesses amounted to approximately
one percent
of the Companys 2008 net sales and cost of sales.
The following table provides net sales and results of operations from the Rohm and Haas acquired businesses included in the Companys 2009 results since the April 1, 2009 acquisition. Included in the results from Rohm and Haas was
$257 million
of restructuring charges (see Note C), a one-time increase in cost of sales of
$209 million
related to the fair value step-up of inventories acquired from Rohm and Haas and sold in the second quarter of 2009 and a pretax loss of
$56 million
on the early extinguishment of debt.
The following table provides pro forma net sales and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, as if Rohm and Haas had been acquired on January 1 of each year. The unaudited pro forma results reflect certain adjustments related to the acquisition, such as increased depreciation and amortization expense on assets acquired from Rohm and Haas resulting from the fair valuation of assets acquired and the impact of acquisition financing in place at December 31, 2009. The pro forma results do not include any anticipated cost synergies or other effects of the planned integration of Rohm and Haas. Accordingly, such pro forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results that actually would have occurred had the acquisition been completed on the dates indicated, nor are they indicative of the future operating results of the combined company.
 
The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009. During the measurement period, which ended on March 31, 2010, net adjustments of
$145 million
were made to the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill. These adjustments are summarized in the table presented below. The balance sheet at December 31, 2009 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect these adjustments as required by the accounting guidance for business combinations. No further adjustments have been made to the acquisition-date fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed since the end of the measurement period.
74
Table of Contents
(1) See Note I for additional information.
(2) Morton International, Inc.
The fair value of receivables acquired from Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009 (net of the Salt business) was
$1,001 million
, with gross contractual amounts receivable of
$1,048 million
. Liabilities assumed from Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009 included certain contingent environmental liabilities valued at
$159 million
and a liability of
$185 million
related to Rohm and Haas Pension Plan matters (see Note N), which were valued in accordance with the accounting guidance for contingencies. Operating loss carryforwards of
$2,189 million
were acquired from Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009,
$137 million
of which were subject to expiration in
2009
through
2013
.
The following table summarizes the major classes of assets and liabilities underlying the deferred tax liabilities resulting from the acquisition of Rohm and Haas:
The acquisition resulted in the recognition of
$9,707 million
of goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes. See Note I for further information on goodwill, including the allocation by segment.
Goodwill largely consists of expected synergies resulting from the acquisition. Key areas of cost savings include increased purchasing power for raw materials; manufacturing and supply chain work process improvements; and the elimination of redundant corporate overhead for shared services and governance. The Company also anticipates that the transaction will produce significant growth synergies through the application of each companys innovative technologies and through the combined businesses broader product portfolio in key industry segments with strong global growth rates.
75
Table of Contents
Financing for the Rohm and Haas Acquisition
Financing for the acquisition of Rohm and Haas included debt and equity financing (see Notes P, W and X).
Rohm and Haas Acquisition and Integration Related Expenses
During 2010, pretax charges totaling
$143 million
were recorded for integration expenses related to the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas. During 2009, pretax charges totaling
$166 million
(
$49 million
in 2008) were recorded for legal expenses and other transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition. These charges, which were expensed in accordance with the accounting guidance for business combinations, were recorded in Acquisition and integration related expenses and reflected in Corporate. An additional
$60 million
of acquisition-related retention expenses were incurred during 2009 and recorded in Cost of sales, Research and development expenses, and Selling, general and administrative expenses and reflected in Corporate.
Purchased In-Process Research and Development
Purchased in-process research and development (IPR&D) represents the value assigned to acquired research and development projects that, as of the date of the acquisition, had not established technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. Prior to January 1, 2009, amounts assigned to IPR&D meeting these criteria were charged to expense as part of the allocation of the purchase price of the business combination. With the adoption of ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, on January 1, 2009, IPR&D acquired in a business combination is capitalized and tested for impairment annually.
The Company recorded pretax charges totaling
$7 million
in 2009 for IPR&D projects associated with the purchase of technology that was not part of a business combination. The Company recorded pretax charges totaling
$44 million
in 2008 for IPR&D projects associated with several acquisitions. The estimated values assigned to the IPR&D projects were determined primarily based on a discounted cash flow model and are shown below:
 
The IPR&D charges outlined above are shown as Purchased in-process research and development charges in the consolidated statements of income. The 2009 IPR&D charges related to a technology purchase for projects within the Ventures business, impacting Corporate. The 2008 IPR&D charges were related to projects within the Agricultural Sciences segment.
NOTE
E
 DIVESTITURES
Divestiture of the Styron Business Unit
On
March 2, 2010
, the Company announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell the Styron business unit (Styron) to an affiliate of Bain Capital Partners. The definitive agreement specified the assets and liabilities related to the businesses and products to be included in the sale. On
June 17, 2010
, the sale was completed for
$1,561 million
, net of working capital adjustments and costs to sell, with proceeds subject to customary post-closing adjustments. The proceeds included a
$75 million
long-term note receivable. In addition, the Company elected to acquire a
7.5
 percent equity interest in the resulting privately held, global materials company. Businesses and products sold included: Styrenics  polystyrene, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, styrene acrylonitrile and expandable polystyrene; Emulsion Polymers; Polycarbonate and Compounds and Blends; Synthetic Rubber; and certain products from Dow Automotive Systems. Also included in the sale were certain styrene monomer assets and the Companys
50 percent
ownership interest in Americas Styrenics LLC, a nonconsolidated affiliate. The transaction also resulted in several long-term supply, service and purchase agreements between Dow and Styron.
76
Table of Contents
Styrons results of operations were not classified as discontinued operations, as the Company has continuing cash flows as a result of the supply, service and purchase agreements, and continues to hold an equity interest.
The following table presents the major classes of assets and liabilities divested by operating segment:
Post-closing adjustments were finalized in the fourth quarter of 2010. In 2010, the Company recognized a pretax gain of
$27 million
on the sale, net of post-closing adjustments of
$24 million
and including a net gain on the sale of two small, related joint ventures, working capital adjustments and additional costs to sell. The net gain was included in Sundry income  net and reflected in the following operating segments: Performance Materials (
$20 million
) and Performance Plastics (
$7 million
). The sale resulted in an after-tax loss of
$56 million
, primarily because goodwill related to the divestiture was not tax deductible.
On February 3, 2011, Styron repaid the
$75 million
long-term note receivable, plus interest.
Divestitures Required as a Condition to the Acquisition of Rohm and Haas
As a condition of the FTCs approval of the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas, the Company was required to divest a portion of its acrylic monomer business, a portion of its specialty latex business and its hollow sphere particle business. As a result, the Company recognized an impairment charge of
$205 million
related to these assets in the second quarter of 2009 restructuring charge (see Note C).
On July 31, 2009, the Company entered into a definitive agreement that included the sale of the portion of its acrylic monomer business and the portion of its specialty latex business. The sale was completed on January 25, 2010. Additional impairment charges of
$8 million
related to these assets were recognized in the first quarter of 2010. In the second quarter of 2010, additional severance costs of
$1 million
and the write-off of other assets of
$5 million
were recognized (see Note C).
The Company completed the sale of its hollow sphere particle business in the second quarter of 2010 and recognized additional costs associated with disposal activities of
$7 million
, related to contract termination fees (see Note C).
Divestiture of the Rohm and Haas Salt Business
On
April 1, 2009
, the Company announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell the stock of Morton International, Inc. (Morton), the Salt business of Rohm and Haas, to K+S Aktiengesellschaft (K+S). On
October 1, 2009
, the Company completed the divestiture of its interest in Morton to K+S and received net proceeds of
$1,576 million
, with proceeds subject to customary post-closing adjustments. As a result, the Company recognized a pretax
$37 million
gain on the sale in the fourth quarter of 2009, included in Sundry income  net, and reflected in Corporate.
One billion
dollars in proceeds from this transaction were used to pay off the Term Loan Agreement used to fund the acquisition of Rohm and Haas (see Note P). The results of operations for the Salt business were reported in Corporate and were not material to the consolidated financial statements.
77
Table of Contents
Divestiture of the Calcium Chloride Business
On
June 30, 2009
, the Company completed the sale of the Calcium Chloride business for net proceeds of
$204 million
and recognized a pretax gain of
$162 million
. The results of the Calcium Chloride business, including the second quarter of 2009 gain on the sale, are reflected as Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the consolidated statements of income.
The following table presents the results of discontinued operations:
 
Divestiture of Investments in Nonconsolidated Affiliates
On September 1, 2009, the Company completed the sale of its ownership interest in Total Raffinaderij Nederland N.V. (TRN), a nonconsolidated affiliate, and related inventory to Total S.A. for
$742 million
. This sale resulted in a pretax net gain of
$457 million
, which consisted of a gain of
$513 million
reflected in Sundry income  net and a charge of
$56 million
related to the recognition of hedging losses which were recorded to Cost of sales. The gain impacted the Feedstocks and Energy segment.
On September 30, 2009 the Company completed the sale of its ownership interest in the OPTIMAL Group of Companies (OPTIMAL), nonconsolidated affiliates, to Petroliam Nasional Berhad for net proceeds of
$660 million
. This sale resulted in a pretax gain of
$339 million
included in Sundry income  net, and reflected in the operating segments as follows:
$146 million
in Performance Materials and
$193 million
in Feedstocks and Energy.
NOTE
F
 INVENTORIES
The following table provides a breakdown of inventories:
 
78
Table of Contents
The reserves reducing inventories from a FIFO basis to a LIFO basis amounted to
$1,003 million
 at
December 31, 2010
and
$818 million
 at
December 31, 2009
. Inventories valued on a LIFO basis, principally hydrocarbon and U.S. chemicals and plastics product inventories, represented
29 percent
 of the total inventories at
December 31, 2010
and
December 31, 2009
.
A reduction of certain inventories resulted in the liquidation of some of the Companys LIFO inventory layers, increasing pretax income
$159 million
in
2010
and
$84 million
in
2009
and decreasing pretax income
$45 million
in
2008
.
NOTE
G
 PROPERTY
 
 
NOTE
H
 NONCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES AND RELATED COMPANY TRANSACTIONS
The Companys investments in related companies accounted for using the equity method (nonconsolidated affiliates) were
$3,453 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$3,224 million
at
December 31, 2009
. At
December 31, 2010
, the carrying amount of the Companys investments in nonconsolidated affiliates was
$74 million
more than its share of the investees net assets, exclusive of additional differences for Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), MEGlobal and Equipolymers, which are discussed separately below. At
December 31, 2009
, the carrying amount of the Companys investments in nonconsolidated affiliates was
$52 million
more than its share of the investees net assets, exclusive of additional differences for Dow Corning, MEGlobal, Equipolymers and Americas Styrenics LLC. Dividends received from the Companys nonconsolidated affiliates were
$668 million
in
2010
,
$690 million
in
2009
and
$836 million
in
2008
.
On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning, in which the Company is a
50 percent
shareholder, voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (see Note N). As a result, the Company fully reserved its investment in Dow Corning and reserved its
50 percent
share of equity earnings from that time through the third quarter of 2000. In November 2000, following affirmation of the Bankruptcy Courts order confirming the Joint Plan of Reorganization (the Joint Plan), the Company reviewed the value of its investment in Dow Corning, revised its assessment of the recoverability of its investment, and determined that it had adequately provided for the other-than-temporary decline associated with the bankruptcy. On June 1, 2004, Dow Cornings Joint Plan became effective and Dow Corning emerged from bankruptcy. Since May 1995, a difference between the Companys
50 percent
share of the underlying equity of Dow Corning and the carrying value of this investment has existed, and the Company considers the difference to be permanent. The Companys investment in Dow Corning was
$227 million
less than the Companys proportionate share of Dow Cornings underlying net assets at
December 31, 2010
and
December 31, 2009
.
At
December 31, 2010
, the Companys investment in MEGlobal was
$250 million
less than the Companys proportionate share of MEGlobals underlying net assets (
$257 million
less at
December 31, 2009
). This amount represents the difference between the value of certain assets of the joint venture and the Companys related valuation on a U.S. GAAP basis, of which
$60 million
is being amortized over the remaining useful lives of the assets and
$190 million
represents the Companys share of the joint ventures goodwill.
79
Table of Contents
At
December 31, 2010
, the Companys investment in Equipolymers was
$7 million
less than the Companys proportionate share of Equipolymers underlying net assets (
$8 million
less at
December 31, 2009
). This amount represents the difference between the value of certain assets of the joint venture and the Companys related valuation on a U.S. GAAP basis, all of which is being amortized over the remaining useful lives of the assets. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company recognized an impairment loss of
$65 million
related to its investment in Equipolymers.
At
December 31, 2009
, the Companys investment in Americas Styrenics LLC was
$136 million
less than the Companys proportionate share of Americas Styrenics LLCs underlying net assets. This amount represented the difference between the book value of assets contributed to the joint venture by the Company at the time of formation (May 1, 2008) and the Companys
50 percent
share of the total recorded value of the joint ventures assets. The Companys investment in Americas Styrenics LLC was sold on June 17, 2010, as part of the divestiture of Styron (see Note E).
See Note E for information regarding the divestiture of the Companys investment in two additional nonconsolidated affiliates in 2009.
All of the nonconsolidated affiliates in which the Company has investments are privately held companies; therefore, quoted market prices are not available.
Principal Nonconsolidated Affiliates
Dows principal nonconsolidated affiliates and the Companys direct or indirect ownership interest for each at
December 31, 2010
,
2009
and
2008
are as follows:
 
(1) On June 17, 2010, the Company completed the sale of its ownership interest in Americas Styrenics LLC; see Note E.
(2) On September 30, 2009, the Company completed the sale of its ownership interest in the OPTIMAL Group of Companies; see Note E.
The Companys investment in its principal nonconsolidated affiliates was
$2,635 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$2,359 million
at
December 31, 2009
. Equity earnings from these companies were
$1,032 million
in
2010
,
$587 million
in
2009
and
$824 million
in
2008
. The summarized financial information presented below represents the combined accounts (at
100 percent
) of the principal nonconsolidated affiliates.
 
80
Table of Contents
(1) The summarized income statement information for 2010 includes the results for Americas Styrenics LLC from January 1, 2010 through June 17, 2010; see Note E.
(2) The summarized income statement information for 2009 includes the results for the OPTIMAL Group of Companies from January 1, 2009 through September 30, 2009; see Note E.
(3) The summarized income statement information for 2008 includes the results for Americas Styrenics LLC from May 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008.
The Company has service agreements with some of these entities, including contracts to manage the operations of manufacturing sites and the construction of new facilities; licensing and technology agreements; and marketing, sales, purchase and lease agreements.
Excess ethylene glycol produced in Dows plants in the United States and Europe is sold to MEGlobal and represented
1 percent
of total net sales in
2010
(
1 percent
of total net sales in
2009
and
2 percent
of total net sales in
2008
). In addition, the Company sells ethylene to MEGlobal as a raw material for its ethylene glycol plants in Canada. The impact of these sales to MEGlobal by operating segment is summarized below:
 
Overall, transactions with other nonconsolidated affiliates and balances due to and due from these entities were not material to the consolidated financial statements.
81
Table of Contents
NOTE
I
 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The following table shows changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended
December 31, 2010
, by operating segment:
The recording of the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas (see Note D) resulted in goodwill of
$9,707 million
, which is not deductible for tax purposes. During the first quarter of 2010, goodwill related to the acquisition of Rohm and Haas increased
$99 million
for net adjustments made during the measurement period to the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In the table above, these adjustments have been retrospectively reflected in the goodwill at January 1, 2010, in accordance with the accounting guidance for business combinations. The adjustments increased goodwill for the operating segments as follows: Electronic and Functional Materials (
$33 million
), Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions (
$47 million
), Agricultural Sciences (
$2 million
), Performance Materials (
$4 million
) and Performance Plastics (
$13 million
).
As a result of the June 17, 2010 divestiture of Styron,
$141 million
of associated goodwill and
$16 million
of intangible assets were divested (see Note E). On June 1, 2010, the Company divested its Powder Coatings business, including
$4 million
of associated goodwill, and on October 1, 2010, the Company divested its Hydrocarbon Resins business, including
$9 million
of associated goodwill.
Goodwill Impairments
During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company performed its annual impairment tests for goodwill. As a result of this review, it was determined that no additional goodwill impairments existed.
During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company performed its annual impairment tests for goodwill. As a result of this review, it was determined that the goodwill associated with the Dow Haltermann reporting unit was impaired. The impairment was based on a review of the Dow Haltermann reporting unit performed by management, in which discounted cash flows did not support the carrying value of the goodwill due to poor future projections for the business. As a result, an impairment loss of
$7 million
was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009 against the Performance Materials segment.
During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company performed its annual impairment tests for goodwill. As a result of this review, it was determined that the goodwill associated with the Dow Automotive Systems reporting unit was impaired. The impairment was based on a review of the Dow Automotive Systems reporting unit performed by management, in which discounted cash flows did not support the carrying value of the goodwill due to the severe downturn in the automotive industry and the future projections for the business. As a result, an estimated impairment loss of
$209 million
was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 against the Performance Materials segment. The second step of goodwill impairment testing to determine the implied fair value of goodwill for the Dow Automotive Systems reporting unit was finalized in the first quarter of 2009. No adjustment was required to be made to the estimated impairment loss based on completion of the allocation process.
82
Table of Contents
Also as a result of the 2008 annual tests, it was determined that the goodwill associated with the Polypropylene reporting unit was impaired. The impairment was based on a review of the Polypropylene reporting unit performed by management, in which discounted cash flows did not support the carrying value of the goodwill due to demand decline in North America and Western Europe, as well as significant new industry capacity that came on stream in 2008 and additional industry capacity that was expected in 2009. As a result, an impairment loss of
$30 million
was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 against the Performance Plastics segment.
Other Intangible Assets
The following table provides information regarding the Companys other intangible assets:
 
(1) In-process research and development ("IPR&D") purchased in a business combination.
Intangible assets acquired with the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas amounted to
$5,305 million
including net adjustments made since the acquisition that increased the fair value of these assets
$830 million
. The following table provides information regarding the intangible assets acquired:
 
During
2010
, the Company acquired software for
$20 million
. The weighted-average amortization period for the acquired software is
five
years.
The following table provides information regarding amortization expense:
 
83
Table of Contents
Total estimated amortization expense for the next five fiscal years is as follows:
 
NOTE
J
 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments
The Companys investments in marketable securities are primarily classified as available-for-sale.
 
The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of the Companys investments in debt securities:
 
At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had
$3,200 million
of held-to-maturity securities (primarily Treasury Bills) classified as cash equivalents, as these securities had original maturities of three months or less. At
December 31, 2009
, the Company had
no
such securities. The Companys investments in held-to-maturity securities are held at amortized cost, which approximates fair value. At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had investments in money market funds of
$35 million
classified as cash equivalents (
$164 million
at
December 31, 2009
).
The net unrealized gain recognized during
2010
on trading securities held at
December 31, 2010
was
$14 million
(
$7 million
at
December 31, 2009
).
84
Table of Contents
The following tables provide the fair value and gross unrealized losses of the Companys investments that were deemed to be temporarily impaired at
December 31, 2010
and
2009
, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities had been in a continuous unrealized loss position:
Portfolio managers regularly review the Companys holdings to determine if any investments are other-than-temporarily impaired. The analysis includes reviewing the amount of the impairment, as well as the length of time it has been impaired. In addition, specific guidelines for each instrument type are followed to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred.
For debt securities, the credit rating of the issuer, current credit rating trends, the trends of the issuers overall sector, the ability of the issuer to pay expected cash flows and the length of time the security has been in a loss position are considered in determining whether unrealized losses represent an other-than-temporary impairment. The Company did not have any credit-related losses during
2010
or
2009
.
For equity securities, the Companys investments are primarily in Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 companies; however, the Companys policies allow investments in companies outside of the S&P 500. The largest holdings are Exchange Traded Funds that represent the S&P 500 index or an S&P 500 sector or subset. The Company considers the evidence to support the recovery of the cost basis of a security including volatility of the stock, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, value and growth expectations, and overall market and sector fundamentals, as well as technical analysis, in determining whether unrealized losses represent an other-than-temporary impairment. In
2010
, other-than-temporary impairment write-downs on investments still held by the Company were
$5 million
(
$93 million
in
2009
).
The aggregate cost of the Company's cost method investments totaled
$171 million
at
December 31, 2010
(
$129 million
at
December 31, 2009
). Due to the nature of these investments, the fair market value is not readily determinable. These investments are reviewed for impairment indicators. During
2010
, the Company's impairment analysis identified indicators that resulted in a reduction in the cost basis of these investments of
$16 million
; the analysis resulted in a reduction of
$10 million
for the year ended
December 31, 2009
.
85
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the fair value of financial instruments at
December 31, 2010
and
2009
:
 
(1) Included in Other investments in the consolidated balance sheets.
(2) U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations, agency mortgage-backed securities and other municipalities obligations.
(3) Cost includes fair value adjustments of
$23 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$25 million
at
December 31, 2009
.
Risk Management
Dows business operations give rise to market risk exposure due to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and other market factors such as equity prices. To manage such risks effectively, the Company enters into hedging transactions, pursuant to established guidelines and policies, which enable it to mitigate the adverse effects of financial market risk. Derivatives used for this purpose are designated as cash flow, fair value or net foreign investment hedges where appropriate. The guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value. A secondary objective is to add value by creating additional nonspecific exposures within established limits and policies; derivatives used for this purpose are not designated as hedges. The potential impact of creating such additional exposures is not material to the Companys results.
The Companys risk management program for interest rate, foreign currency and commodity risks is based on fundamental, mathematical and technical models that take into account the implicit cost of hedging. Risks created by derivative instruments and the mark-to-market valuations of positions are strictly monitored at all times, using value at risk and stress tests. Credit risk arising from these contracts is not significant because the Company minimizes counterparty concentration, deals primarily with major financial institutions of solid credit quality, and the majority of its hedging transactions mature in less than three months. In addition, the Company minimizes concentrations of credit risk through its global orientation in diverse businesses with a large number of diverse customers and suppliers. It is the Companys policy not to have credit-risk-related contingent features in its derivative instruments. The Company does not anticipate losses from credit risk and the net cash requirements arising from counterparty risk associated with risk management activities are not expected to be material in 2011. No significant concentration of credit risk existed at
December 31, 2010
.
The Company reviews its overall financial strategies and the impacts from using derivatives in its risk management program with the Companys Board of Directors and revises its strategies as market conditions dictate.
Interest Rate Risk Management
The Company enters into various interest rate contracts with the objective of lowering funding costs or altering interest rate exposures related to fixed and variable rate obligations. In these contracts, the Company agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated on an agreed-upon notional principal amount. At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had no open interest rate swaps.
Foreign Currency Risk Management
The Companys global operations require active participation in foreign exchange markets. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts and options, and cross-currency swaps to hedge various currency exposures or create desired exposures. Exposures primarily relate to assets, liabilities and bonds denominated in foreign currencies, as well as economic exposure, which is derived from the risk that currency fluctuations could affect the dollar value of future cash flows related to operating activities. The primary business objective of the activity is to optimize the U.S. dollar value of the Companys assets,
86
Table of Contents
liabilities and future cash flows with respect to exchange rate fluctuations. Assets and liabilities denominated in the same foreign currency are netted, and only the net exposure is hedged. At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had forward contracts, options and cross-currency swaps to buy, sell or exchange foreign currencies. These contracts had various expiration dates, primarily in the first quarter of 2011.
Commodity Risk Management
The Company has exposure to the prices of commodities in its procurement of certain raw materials. The primary purpose of commodity hedging activities is to manage the price volatility associated with these forecasted inventory purchases. At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had futures contracts, options and swaps to buy, sell or exchange commodities. These agreements had various expiration dates primarily in 2011.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Cash Flow Hedges
For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedging instruments, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI); it is reclassified to Cost of sales in the same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects income. The unrealized amounts in AOCI fluctuate based on changes in the fair value of open contracts at the end of each reporting period. The Company anticipates volatility in AOCI and net income from its cash flow hedges. The amount of volatility varies with the level of derivative activities and market conditions during any period. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current period income.
The net loss from previously terminated interest rate cash flow hedges included in AOCI at
December 31, 2010
was
$2 million
after tax (
$2 million
after tax at
December 31, 2009
). During
2010
,
2009
and
2008
, there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements due to interest rate hedge ineffectiveness. The Company had
no
open interest rate derivatives at
December 31, 2010
(notional U.S. dollar equivalent of
$30 million
at
December 31, 2009
).
Current open foreign currency forward contracts hedge the currency risk of forecasted feedstock purchase transactions until April 2011. The effective portion of the mark-to-market effects of the foreign currency forward contracts is recorded in AOCI; it is reclassified to income in the same period or periods that the underlying feedstock purchase affects income. The net loss from the foreign currency hedges included in AOCI at
December 31, 2010
was
$4 million
after tax (net loss of
$5 million
after tax at
December 31, 2009
). During
2010
,
2009
and
2008
, there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements due to foreign currency hedge ineffectiveness. At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had open forward contracts with various expiration dates to buy, sell or exchange foreign currencies with a notional U.S. dollar equivalent of
$827 million
(
$645 million
at
December 31, 2009
).
Commodity swaps, futures and option contracts with maturities of not more than 36 months are utilized and designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted commodity purchases. Current open contracts hedge forecasted transactions until December 2011. The effective portion of the mark-to-market effect of the cash flow hedge instrument is recorded in AOCI; it is reclassified to income in the same period or periods that the underlying commodity purchase affects income. Due to the September 1, 2009 sale of TRN, the Company recognized a pretax loss of
$56 million
for cash flow hedges of forecasted purchases that will not occur as a result of the sale (see Note E). The net gain from commodity hedges included in AOCI at
December 31, 2010
was
$3 million
after tax (
zero
at
December 31, 2009
). During
2010
,
2009
and
2008
, there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements due to commodity hedge ineffectiveness. At
December 31, 2010
and
2009
, the Company had the following aggregate notionals of outstanding commodity forward contracts to hedge forecasted purchases:
 
Fair Value Hedges
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in current period income and reflected as Interest expense and amortization of debt discount in the consolidated statements of income. The short-cut method is used when the criteria are met. The Company had no open interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of underlying fixed rate debt obligations at
December 31, 2010
and
2009
.
87
Table of Contents
Net Foreign Investment Hedges
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as net foreign investment hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is included in Cumulative Translation Adjustments in AOCI. The results of hedges of the Companys net investment in foreign operations included in Cumulative Translation Adjustments in AOCI was a net gain of
$70 million
after tax at
December 31, 2010
(net loss of
$56 million
after tax at
December 31, 2009
). During
2010
,
2009
and
2008
there was no material impact on the consolidated financial statements due to hedge ineffectiveness. At
December 31, 2010
and
2009
, the Company had no open forward contracts or outstanding options to buy, sell or exchange foreign currencies. At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had outstanding foreign-currency denominated debt designated as a hedge of net foreign investment of
$1,250 million
(
$1,879 million
at
December 31, 2009
).
Other Derivative Instruments
The Company utilizes futures, options and swap instruments that are effective as economic hedges of commodity price exposures, but do not meet the hedge accounting criteria in the accounting guidance for derivatives and hedging. At
December 31, 2010
and
2009
, the Company had the following aggregate notionals of outstanding commodity contracts:
 
The Company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts, options, and cross-currency swaps that are not designated as hedging instruments primarily to manage foreign currency and interest rate exposure. The Company had open foreign exchange contracts with various expiration dates to buy, sell or exchange foreign currencies and a notional U.S. dollar equivalent of
$13,944 million
at
December 31, 2010
(
$15,312 million
at
December 31, 2009
).
The following table provides the fair value and gross balance sheet classification of derivative instruments:
88
Table of Contents
The net after-tax amounts to be reclassified from AOCI to income within the next 12 months are a
$1 million
loss for interest rate contracts, a
$3 million
gain for commodity contracts and a
$4 million
loss for foreign currency contracts.
89
Table of Contents
NOTE
K
 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
The following tables summarize the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2010
and
2009
:
(1) Cash collateral is classified as Accounts and notes receivable  Other in the consolidated balance sheets. Amounts represent the estimated net settlement amount when applying netting and set-off rights included in master netting arrangements between the Company and its counterparties and the payable or receivable for cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparty.
(2) Included in Accounts and notes receivable  Other in the consolidated balance sheets. See Note O for additional information on transfers of financial assets.
(3) The Companys investments in equity and debt securities are primarily classified as available-for-sale and are included in Other investments in the consolidated balance sheets.
(4) U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. agency obligations, agency mortgage-backed securities and other municipalities obligations.
(5) See Note J for the classification of derivatives in the consolidated balance sheets.
90
Table of Contents
Assets and liabilities related to forward contracts, interest rate swaps, currency swaps, options and other conditional or exchange contracts executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement are netted. Collateral accounts are netted with corresponding assets and liabilities. The Company posted cash collateral of
$4 million
at
December 31, 2010
, classified as Accounts and notes receivable  Other in the consolidated balance sheets.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 1 measurements (measured using quoted prices in active markets), total fair value is either the price of the most recent trade at the time of the market close or the official close price, as defined by the exchange on which the asset is most actively traded on the last trading day of the period, multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 measurements, where the security is frequently traded in less active markets, fair value is based on the closing price at the end of the period; where the security is less frequently traded, fair value is based on the price a dealer would pay for the security or similar securities, adjusted for any terms specific to that asset or liability. Market inputs are obtained from well-established and recognized vendors of market data and subjected to tolerance/quality checks. For derivative assets and liabilities, standard industry models are used to calculate the fair value of the various financial instruments based on significant observable market inputs, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, swap rates, interest rates and implied volatilities obtained from various market sources.
For all other assets and liabilities for which observable inputs are used, fair value is derived through the use of fair value models, such as a discounted cash flow model or other standard pricing models. See Note J for further information on the types of instruments used by the Company for risk management.
There were
no
significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 during the year ended
December 31, 2010
.
For assets classified as Level 3 measurements, fair value is based on significant unobservable inputs including assumptions where there is little, if any, market activity. The fair value of the Companys interests held in trade receivable conduits is determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received using the key input of anticipated credit losses in the portfolio of receivables sold that have not yet been collected (
1.42 percent
for North America and
zero
for Europe at
December 31, 2010
). Given the short-term nature of the underlying receivables, discount rate and prepayments are not factors in determining the fair value of the interests. See Note O for further information on assets classified as Level 3 measurements.
The following table summarizes the changes in fair value measurements using Level 3 inputs for the year ended
December 31, 2010
:
 
(1) Included in Accounts and notes receivable  Other in the consolidated balance sheets.
Fair Value Measurements on a Nonrecurring Basis
The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in
2010
:
 
91
Table of Contents
After evaluating expected future investments in conjunction with expected future cash flows, a
$48 million
asset impairment charge was recognized in the Polyurethanes business in the fourth quarter of
2010
. The Companys evaluation of strategic alternatives for Epoxy capacity resulted in an
$18 million
asset impairment charge in the fourth quarter of
2010
. Due to a change in the scope of a capital project, a
$9 million
asset impairment charge was recognized in Dow Automotive Systems in the fourth quarter of
2010
. In all cases, the assets were written down to zero. The charges were included in Cost of sales in the consolidated statements of income and reflected in the Performance Materials (
$75 million
) segment.
The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in
2009
:
 
As part of the restructuring plan that was approved on June 30, 2009, the Company will shut down a number of manufacturing facilities by the end of 2011. As a result, long-lived assets with a carrying value of
$425 million
were written down to the fair value of
$26 million
, resulting in an impairment charge of
$399 million
, which was included in the second quarter of 2009 restructuring charge (see Note C). In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company recognized an impairment loss of
$65 million
(against the Performance Plastics segment) related to its investment in Equipolymers with a remaining fair value of the investment of
$4 million
. The long-lived assets were valued based on bids received from third parties and using discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions that market participants would use. Key inputs included anticipated revenues, associated manufacturing costs, capital expenditures and discount, growth and tax rates.
On April 1, 2009, the Company announced the entry into a definitive agreement to sell the newly acquired stock of Morton International, Inc., the Salt business of Rohm and Haas, to K+S Aktiengesellschaft. The assets were classified as held for sale with a net carrying value of
$1,657 million
at September 30, 2009. The held for sale assets were valued based on the definitive agreement with K+S Aktiengesellschaft, less estimated cost to sell. The assets were sold on October 1, 2009 (see Note E).
During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company performed its annual impairment tests for goodwill. As a result of this review, it was determined that the goodwill associated with the Dow Haltermann reporting unit was impaired. The impairment was based on a review of the Dow Haltermann reporting unit performed by management, in which discounted cash flows did not support the carrying value of the goodwill due to poor future projections for the business. As a result, an impairment loss of
$7 million
was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009 against the Performance Materials segment.
 
92
Table of Contents
NOTE
L
 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Accrued and Other Current Liabilities
Accrued and other current liabilities were
$3,358 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$3,209 million
at
December 31, 2009
. Accrued payroll, which is a component of Accrued and other current liabilities, was
$917 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$736 million
at
December 31, 2009
. No other component of accrued liabilities was more than 5 percent of total current liabilities.
 
 
(1) Included in Selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income.
93
Table of Contents
NOTE
M
 EARNINGS PER SHARE CALCULATIONS
94
Table of Contents
NOTE
N
 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Litigation
Breast Implant Matters
On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), in which the Company is a
50 percent
shareholder, voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve litigation related to Dow Cornings breast implant and other silicone medical products. On June 1, 2004, Dow Cornings Joint Plan of Reorganization (the Joint Plan) became effective and Dow Corning emerged from bankruptcy. The Joint Plan contains release and injunction provisions resolving all tort claims brought against various entities, including the Company, involving Dow Cornings breast implant and other silicone medical products.
To the extent not previously resolved in state court actions, cases involving Dow Cornings breast implant and other silicone medical products filed against the Company were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the District Court) for resolution in the context of the Joint Plan. On October 6, 2005, all such cases then pending in the District Court against the Company were dismissed. Should cases involving Dow Cornings breast implant and other silicone medical products be filed against the Company in the future, they will be accorded similar treatment. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that a resolution of all future cases will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
As part of the Joint Plan, Dow and Corning Incorporated agreed to provide a credit facility to Dow Corning in an aggregate amount of
$300 million
, which was reduced to
$200 million
effective June 1, 2010. The Companys share of the credit facility was originally
$150 million
, but was reduced to
$100 million
effective June 1, 2010, and is subject to the terms and conditions stated in the Joint Plan. At
December 31, 2010
, no draws had been taken against the credit facility.
DBCP Matters
Numerous lawsuits have been brought against the Company and other chemical companies, both inside and outside of the United States, alleging that the manufacture, distribution or use of pesticides containing dibromochloropropane (DBCP) has caused personal injury and property damage, including contamination of groundwater. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that the resolution of such lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Environmental Matters
Accruals for environmental matters are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on current law and existing technologies. At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had accrued obligations of
$607 million
for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs, including
$59 million
for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is managements best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately twice that amount. Consequently, it is reasonably possible that environmental remediation and restoration costs in excess of amounts accrued could have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. It is the opinion of the Companys management, however, that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of the range disclosed will have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Inherent uncertainties exist in these estimates primarily due to unknown conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and emerging remediation technologies for handling site remediation and restoration. At
December 31, 2009
, the Company had accrued obligations of
$619 million
for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs, including
$80 million
for the remediation of Superfund sites.
The following table summarizes the activity in the Company's accrued obligations for environmental matters for the years ended
December 31, 2010
and
2009
:
95
Table of Contents
The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to environmental remediation totaled
$158 million
in
2010
,
$269 million
in
2009
and
$140 million
in
2008
. Capital expenditures for environmental protection were
$173 million
in
2010
,
$219 million
in
2009
and
$193 million
in
2008
.
Midland Off-Site Environmental Matters
On June 12, 2003, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources and Environment ("MDNRE," formerly the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality or MDEQ) issued a Hazardous Waste Operating License (the License) to the Companys Midland, Michigan manufacturing site (the Midland site), which included provisions requiring the Company to conduct an investigation to determine the nature and extent of off-site contamination in the City of Midland soils; the Tittabawassee River and Saginaw River sediment and floodplain soils; and the Saginaw Bay; and, if necessary, undertake remedial action.
City of Midland
Matters related to the City of Midland remain under the primary oversight of the State of Michigan (the State) under the License, and the Company and the State are in ongoing discussions regarding the implementation of the requirements of the License.
Tittabawassee and Saginaw Rivers, Saginaw Bay
The Company, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the State entered into an administrative order on consent (AOC), effective January 21, 2010, that requires the Company to conduct a remedial investigation, a feasibility study and a remedial design for the Tittabawassee River, the Saginaw River and the Saginaw Bay, and pay the oversight costs of the EPA and the State under the authority of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). These actions, to be conducted under the lead oversight of the EPA, will build upon the investigative work completed under the State Resource Conservation Recovery Act (RCRA) program from 2005 through 2009. The Tittabawassee River, beginning at the Midland Site and extending down to the first six miles of the Saginaw River, are designated as the first Operable Unit for purposes of conducting the remedial investigation, feasibility study and remedial design work. This work will be performed in a largely upriver to downriver sequence for eight geographic segments of the Tittabawassee and upper Saginaw Rivers. The remainder of the Saginaw River and the Saginaw Bay are designated as a second Operable Unit and the work associated with that unit may also be geographically segmented. The AOC does not obligate the Company to perform removal or remedial action; that action can only be required by a separate order. The Company and the EPA will be negotiating orders separate from the AOC that will obligate the Company to perform remedial actions under the scope of work of the AOC.
Alternative Dispute Resolution Process
The Company; the EPA; the U.S. Department of Justice; and the natural resource damage trustees (the Michigan Office of the Attorney General; the MDNRE; the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Saginaw-Chippewa tribe), have been engaged in negotiations to seek to resolve potential governmental claims against the Company related to historical off-site contamination associated with the City of Midland, the Tittabawassee and Saginaw Rivers and the Saginaw Bay. The Company and the governmental parties started meeting in the fall of 2005 and entered into a Confidentiality Agreement in December 2005. The Company continues to conduct negotiations under the Federal Alternative Dispute Resolution Act with all of the governmental parties, except the EPA which withdrew from the alternative dispute resolution process on September 12, 2007.
On September 28, 2007, the Company and the natural resource damage trustees entered into a Funding and Participation Agreement that addressed the Companys payment of past costs incurred by the natural resource damage trustees, payment of the costs of a trustee coordinator and a process to review additional cooperative studies that the Company might agree to fund or conduct with the natural resource damage trustees. On March 18, 2008, the Company and the natural resource damage trustees entered into a Memorandum of Understanding to provide a mechanism for the Company to fund cooperative studies related to the assessment of natural resource damages. On April 7, 2008, the natural resource damage trustees released their Natural Resource Damage Assessment Plan for the Tittabawassee River System Assessment Area.
At
December 31, 2010
, the accrual for these off-site matters was
$32 million
(included in the total accrued obligation of
$607 million
). At
December 31, 2009
, the Company had an accrual for these off-site matters of
$25 million
(included in the total accrued obligation of
$619 million
).
96
Table of Contents
Environmental Matters Summary
It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of those disclosed will have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation
Union Carbide Corporation (Union Carbide), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. These suits principally allege personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products and frequently seek both actual and punitive damages. The alleged claims primarily relate to products that Union Carbide sold in the past, alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products located on Union Carbides premises, and Union Carbides responsibility for asbestos suits filed against a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. (Amchem). In many cases, plaintiffs are unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any compensable loss as a result of such exposure, or that injuries incurred in fact resulted from exposure to Union Carbides products.
Influenced by the bankruptcy filings of numerous defendants in asbestos-related litigation and the prospects of various forms of state and national legislative reform, the rate at which plaintiffs filed asbestos-related suits against various companies, including Union Carbide and Amchem, increased in 2001, 2002 and the first half of 2003. Since then, the rate of filing has significantly abated. Union Carbide expects more asbestos-related suits to be filed against Union Carbide and Amchem in the future, and will aggressively defend or reasonably resolve, as appropriate, both pending and future claims.
Based on a study completed by Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) in January 2003, Union Carbide increased its December 31, 2002 asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims for the 15-year period ending in 2017 to
$2.2 billion
, excluding future defense and processing costs. Since then, Union Carbide has compared current asbestos claim and resolution activity to the results of the most recent ARPC study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the accrual continues to be appropriate. In addition, Union Carbide has requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity each November since 2004 to determine the appropriateness of updating the most recent ARPC study.
In November 2008, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its then most recent study completed in December 2006. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2008. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2008, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against Union Carbide and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2023 was estimated to be between
$952 million
and
$1.2 billion
. As in its earlier studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2008 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
In December 2008, based on ARPCs December 2008 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to
$952 million
, which covered the 15-year period ending 2023, excluding future defense and processing costs. The reduction was
$54 million
and is shown as Asbestos-related credits in the consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2008, the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was
$934 million
.
In November 2009, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides 2009 asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its December 2008 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2009. In December 2009, ARPC stated that an update of its study would not provide a more likely estimate of future events than the estimate reflected in its study of the previous year and, therefore, the estimate in that study remained applicable. Based on Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity and ARPCs response, Union Carbide determined that no change to the accrual was required. At
December 31, 2009
, Union Carbides asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was
$839 million
.
In November 2010, Union Carbide requested ARPC to review Union Carbides historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its December 2008 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2010. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2010, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims against Union Carbide and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2025 was estimated to be between
$744 million
and
$835 million
. As in its earlier studies, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2010 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time.
In December 2010, based on ARPCs December 2010 study and Union Carbides own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, Union Carbide decreased its asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims to
$744 million
, which covered the 15-year period ending 2025, excluding future defense and processing costs. The reduction was
$54 million
and was
97
Table of Contents
shown as Asbestos-related credits in the consolidated statements of income. At
December 31, 2010
, the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was
$728 million
.
At
December 31, 2010
, approximately
21 percent
of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately
79 percent
related to future claims. At
December 31, 2009
, approximately
23 percent
of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately
77 percent
related to future claims.
At December 31, 2002, Union Carbide increased the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability to
$1.35 billion
, substantially exhausting its asbestos product liability coverage. The insurance receivable related to the asbestos liability was determined by Union Carbide after a thorough review of applicable insurance policies and the 1985 Wellington Agreement, to which Union Carbide and many of its liability insurers are signatory parties, as well as other insurance settlements, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, and taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers. The Wellington Agreement and other agreements with insurers are designed to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of Union Carbides insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise.
In September 2003, Union Carbide filed a comprehensive insurance coverage case, now proceeding in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, seeking to confirm its rights to insurance for various asbestos claims and to facilitate an orderly and timely collection of insurance proceeds (the Insurance Litigation). The Insurance Litigation was filed against insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and/or do not otherwise have agreements in place with Union Carbide regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage, in order to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of such insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise. Since the filing of the case, Union Carbide has reached settlements with several of the carriers involved in the Insurance Litigation, including settlements reached with two significant carriers in the fourth quarter of 2009. The Insurance Litigation is ongoing.
Union Carbides receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was
$50 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$84 million
at
December 31, 2009
. At
December 31, 2010
and
December 31, 2009
, all of the receivable for insurance recoveries was related to insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and/or do not otherwise have agreements in place regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage.
In addition to the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability, Union Carbide had receivables for defense and resolution costs submitted to insurance carriers that have settlement agreements in place regarding their asbestos-related insurance coverage. The following table summarizes Union Carbides receivables related to its asbestos-related liability:
 
Union Carbide expenses defense costs as incurred. The pretax impact for defense and resolution costs, net of insurance, was
$73 million
in
2010
,
$58 million
in
2009
and
$53 million
in
2008
, and was reflected in Cost of sales.
After a review of its insurance policies, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, after taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers; existing insurance settlements; and the advice of outside counsel with respect to the applicable insurance coverage law relating to the terms and conditions of its insurance policies, Union Carbide continues to believe that its recorded receivable for insurance recoveries from all insurance carriers is probable of collection.
The amounts recorded by Union Carbide for the asbestos-related liability and related insurance receivable described above were based upon current, known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed and/or received each year, the average cost of disposing of each such claim, coverage issues among insurers, and the continuing solvency of various insurance companies, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries for Union Carbide to be higher or lower than those projected or those recorded.
Because of the uncertainties described above, Union Carbides management cannot estimate the full range of the cost of resolving pending and future asbestos-related claims facing Union Carbide and Amchem. Union Carbides management believes that it is reasonably possible that the cost of disposing of Union Carbides asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on Union Carbides results of operations and cash flows for a particular
98
Table of Contents
period and on the consolidated financial position of Union Carbide.
It is the opinion of Dows management that it is reasonably possible that the cost of Union Carbide disposing of its asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of the Company.
Synthetic Rubber Industry Matters
In 2003, the U.S., Canadian and European competition authorities initiated separate investigations into alleged anticompetitive behavior by certain participants in the synthetic rubber industry. Certain subsidiaries of the Company (but as to the investigation in Europe only) have responded to requests for documents and are otherwise cooperating in the investigations.
On June 10, 2005, the Company received a Statement of Objections from the European Commission (the EC) stating that it believed that the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company (the Dow Entities), together with other participants in the synthetic rubber industry, engaged in conduct in violation of European competition laws with respect to the butadiene rubber and emulsion styrene butadiene rubber businesses. In connection therewith, on November 29, 2006, the EC issued its decision alleging infringement of Article 81 of the Treaty of Rome and imposed a fine of Euro 
64.575 million
(approximately
$85 million
at that time) on the Dow Entities; several other companies were also named and fined. As a result, the Company recognized a loss contingency of
$85 million
related to the fine in the fourth quarter of 2006. The Company has appealed the ECs decision. On October 13, 2009, the Court of First Instance held a hearing on the appeal of all parties. Subsequent to the imposition of the fine, the Company and/or certain subsidiaries of the Company became named parties in various related U.S., United Kingdom and Italian civil actions. The U.S. matter was settled in March 2010 through a confidential settlement agreement, with an immaterial impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Additionally, on March 10, 2007, the Company received a Statement of Objections from the EC stating that it believed that DuPont Dow Elastomers L.L.C. (DDE), a former 50:50 joint venture with E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont), together with other participants in the synthetic rubber industry, engaged in conduct in violation of European competition laws with respect to the polychloroprene business. This Statement of Objections specifically names the Company, in its capacity as a former joint venture owner of DDE. On December 5, 2007, the EC announced its decision to impose a fine on the Company, among others, in the amount of Euro 
48.675 million
(approximately
$65 million
). The Company previously transferred its joint venture ownership interest in DDE to DuPont in 2005, and DDE then changed its name to DuPont Performance Elastomers L.L.C. (DPE). In February 2008, DuPont, DPE and the Company each filed an appeal of the December 5, 2007 decision of the EC. Based on the Companys allocation agreement with DuPont, the Companys share of this fine, regardless of the outcome of the appeals, will not have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Rohm and Haas Pension Plan Matters
In December 2005, a federal judge in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana (the District Court) issued a decision granting a class of participants in the Rohm and Haas Pension Plan (the Rohm and Haas Plan) who had retired from Rohm and Haas, now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and who elected to receive a lump sum benefit from the Rohm and Haas Plan, the right to a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) as part of their retirement benefit. In August 2007, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the District Courts decision, and in March 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the Rohm and Haas Plans petition to review the Seventh Circuits decision. The case was returned to the District Court for further proceedings. In October 2008 and February 2009, the District Court issued rulings that have the effect of including in the class all Rohm and Haas retirees who received a lump sum distribution without a COLA from the Rohm and Haas Plan since January 1976. These rulings are subject to appeal, and the District Court has not yet determined the amount of the COLA benefits that may be due to the class participants. The Rohm and Haas Plan and the plaintiffs entered into a settlement agreement that, in addition to settling the litigation with respect to the Rohm and Haas retirees, provides for the amendment of the complaint and amendment of the Rohm and Haas Plan to include active employees in the settlement benefits. The District Court preliminarily approved the settlement on November 24, 2009 and, following a hearing on March 12, 2010, issued a final order approving the settlement on April 12, 2010. A group of objectors to the settlement filed an appeal from the final order. In November 2010, the District Court issued an order approving class counsels fee award petition in an amount consistent with the terms of the settlement. The same objectors also appealed this order. Both appeals are pending.
A pension liability associated with this matter of
$185 million
was recognized as part of the acquisition of Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009. The liability, which was determined in accordance with the accounting guidance for contingencies, recognized the estimated impact of the above described judicial decisions on the long-term Rohm and Haas Plan obligations owed to the applicable Rohm and Haas retirees and active employees. At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had a liability of
$186 million
(
$183 million
at
December 31, 2009
) associated with this matter.
99
Table of Contents
Other Litigation Matters
In addition to breast implant, DBCP, environmental and synthetic rubber industry matters, the Company is party to a number of other claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to commercial matters, including product liability, governmental regulation and other actions. Certain of these actions purport to be class actions and seek damages in very large amounts. All such claims are being contested. Dow has an active risk management program consisting of numerous insurance policies secured from many carriers at various times. These policies provide coverage that will be utilized to minimize the financial impact, if any, of the contingencies described above.
Summary
Except for the possible effect of Union Carbides asbestos-related liability described above, it is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of all claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Purchase Commitments
The Company has numerous agreements for the purchase of ethylene-related products globally. The purchase prices are determined primarily on a cost-plus basis. Total purchases under these agreements were
$714 million
in
2010
,
$784 million
in
2009
and
$1,502 million
in
2008
. The Companys take-or-pay commitments associated with these agreements at
December 31, 2010
are included in the table below.
The Company also has various commitments for take-or-pay and throughput agreements. Such commitments are at prices not in excess of current market prices. The terms of all but two of these agreements extend from one to 25 years. One agreement has terms extending to 35 years and another has terms extending to 80 years. The determinable future commitments for these agreements are included for 10 years in the following table which presents the fixed and determinable portion of obligations under the Companys purchase commitments at
December 31, 2010
:
In addition to the take-or-pay obligations at
December 31, 2010
, the Company had outstanding commitments which ranged from one to ten years for materials, services and other items used in the normal course of business of approximately
$180 million
. Such commitments were at prices not in excess of current market prices.
Guarantees
The Company provides a variety of guarantees, as described more fully in the following sections.
Guarantees
Guarantees arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with customers and nonconsolidated affiliates when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others (via delivery of cash or other assets) if specified triggering events occur. With guarantees, such as commercial or financial contracts, non-performance by the guaranteed party triggers the obligation of the Company to make payments to the beneficiary of the guarantee. The majority of the Companys guarantees relate to debt of nonconsolidated affiliates, which have expiration dates ranging from less than one year to ten years, and trade financing transactions in Latin America and Asia Pacific, which typically expire within one year of their inception. The Companys current expectation is that future payment or performance related to the non-performance of others is considered unlikely.
Residual Value Guarantees
The Company provides guarantees related to leased assets specifying the residual value that will be available to the lessor at lease termination through sale of the assets to the lessee or third parties.
100
Table of Contents
The following tables provide a summary of the final expiration, maximum future payments and recorded liability reflected in the consolidated balance sheets for each type of guarantee:
Asset Retirement Obligations
Dow has
188
 manufacturing sites in
35
countries. Most of these sites contain numerous individual manufacturing operations, particularly at the Companys larger sites. Asset retirement obligations are recorded as incurred and reasonably estimable, including obligations for which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the Company. The retirement of assets may involve such efforts as remediation and treatment of asbestos, contractually required demolition, and other related activities, depending on the nature and location of the assets, and retirement obligations are typically realized only upon demolition of those facilities. In identifying asset retirement obligations, the Company considers identification of legally enforceable obligations, changes in existing law, estimates of potential settlement dates and the calculation of an appropriate discount rate to be used in calculating the fair value of the obligations. Dow has a well-established global process to identify, approve and track the demolition of retired or to-be-retired facilities; and no assets are retired from service until this process has been followed. Dow typically forecasts demolition projects based on the usefulness of the assets; environmental, health and safety concerns; and other similar considerations. Under this process, as demolition projects are identified and approved, reasonable estimates are determined for the time frames during which any related asset retirement obligations are expected to be settled. For those assets where a range of potential settlement dates may be reasonably estimated, obligations are recorded. Dow routinely reviews all changes to items under consideration for demolition to determine if an adjustment to the value of the asset retirement obligation is required.
The Company has recognized asset retirement obligations for the following activities: demolition and remediation activities at manufacturing sites in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Chile, China and Europe; and capping activities at landfill sites in the United States, Canada, Brazil and Europe. The Company has also recognized conditional asset retirement obligations related to asbestos encapsulation as a result of planned demolition and remediation activities at manufacturing and administrative sites in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Chile, China and Europe. The aggregate carrying amount of conditional asset retirement obligations recognized by the Company (included in the asset retirement obligations balance) was
$40 million
at
December 31, 2010
(
$41 million
at
2009
).
The following table shows changes in the aggregate carrying amount of the Companys asset retirement obligations:
 
101
Table of Contents
The discount rate used to calculate the Companys asset retirement obligations at
December 31, 2010
was
1.78 percent
(
2.45 percent
at
December 31, 2009
). These obligations are included in the consolidated balance sheets as Other noncurrent obligations.
The Company has not recognized conditional asset retirement obligations for which a fair value cannot be reasonably estimated in its consolidated financial statements. Assets that have not been submitted/reviewed for potential demolition activities are considered to have continued usefulness and are generally still operating normally. Therefore, without a plan to demolish the assets or the expectation of a plan, such as shortening the useful life of assets for depreciation purposes in accordance with the accounting guidance related to property, plant and equipment, the Company is unable to reasonably forecast a time frame to use for present value calculations. As such, the Company has not recognized obligations for individual plants/buildings at its manufacturing sites where estimates of potential settlement dates cannot be reasonably made. In addition, the Company has not recognized conditional asset retirement obligations for the capping of its approximately
60
 underground storage wells and
130
 underground brine mining and other wells at Dow-owned sites when there are no plans or expectations of plans to exit the sites. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that such conditional asset retirement obligations, when estimable, will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements based on current costs.
NOTE
O
 TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted ASU 2009-16, Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets. This ASU is intended to improve the information provided in financial statements concerning transfers of financial assets, including the effects of transfers on financial position, financial performance and cash flows, and any continuing involvement of the transferor with the transferred financial assets. The Company evaluated the impact of adopting the guidance and the terms and conditions in place at January 1, 2010 and determined that certain sales of accounts receivable would be classified as secured borrowings. Under the Companys sale of accounts receivable arrangements,
$915 million
was outstanding at January 1, 2010. The maximum amount of receivables available for participation in these programs was
$1,939 million
at January 1, 2010.
In January 2010, the Company terminated the North American arrangement and replaced it with a new arrangement that qualified for treatment as a sale under ASU 2009-16. The arrangement related to
$294 million
of the
$915 million
outstanding at January 1, 2010 and
$1,100 million
of the
$1,939 million
maximum participation.
In June 2010, the Company terminated the European arrangement and replaced it with a new arrangement that qualified for treatment as a sale under ASU 2009-16. The arrangement related to
$584 million
of the
$915 million
outstanding at January 1, 2010 and
$721 million
of the
$1,939 million
maximum participation.
Sale of Trade Accounts Receivable in North America
In January 2010, the Company terminated its previous facilities used in North America for the transfers of trade accounts receivable by entering into an agreement to repurchase the outstanding receivables for
$264 million
and replacing it with a new arrangement. During the year ended
December 31, 2010
, under the new arrangement, the Company sold the trade accounts receivable of select North America entities on a revolving basis to certain multi-seller commercial paper conduit entities. The Company maintains servicing responsibilities and the related costs are insignificant. The proceeds received are comprised of cash and interests in specified assets (the receivables sold by the Company) of the conduits that entitle the Company to the residual cash flows of such specified assets in the conduits after the commercial paper has been repaid. Neither the conduits nor the investors in those entities have recourse to other assets of the Company in the event of nonpayment by the debtors.
During the year ended
December 31, 2010
, the Company recognized a loss of
$19 million
 on the sale of these receivables, which is classified as Interest expense and amortization of debt discount in the consolidated statements of income. The Company classifies its interests in the conduits as Accounts and notes receivable  Other on the consolidated balance sheets and those interests are carried at fair value. Fair value of the interests is determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is based on unobservable inputs (a Level 3 measurement). The key input in the valuation is percentage of anticipated credit losses, which was
1.42 percent
, in the portfolio of receivables sold that have not yet been collected. Given the short-term nature of the underlying receivables, discount rates and prepayments are not factors in determining the fair value of the interests. At
December 31, 2010
, the carrying value of the interests held was
$1,110 million
, which is the Companys maximum exposure to loss related to the receivables sold.
102
Table of Contents
The sensitivity of the fair value of the interests held to hypothetical adverse changes in the anticipated credit losses are as follows (amounts shown are the corresponding hypothetical decreases in the carrying value of the interests):
Following is an analysis of certain cash flows between the Company and the North American conduits:
(1) Presented in "Operating Activities" in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Delinquencies on the sold receivables that were still outstanding at
December 31, 2010
were
$127 million
. Trade accounts receivable outstanding and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2010
were
$1,930 million
. Credit losses, net of any recoveries, on receivables sold during the year ended
December 31, 2010
were
$2 million
. During 2010, the Company repurchased
$13 million
of previously sold receivables related to a divestiture.
Sale of Trade
Accounts Receivable in Europe
In June 2010, the Company terminated its previous facility used in Europe for the transfers of trade accounts receivable by entering into an agreement to repurchase the outstanding receivables for
$11 million
and replacing it with a new arrangement. Since June 2010, under the new arrangement, the Company sold qualifying trade accounts receivable of select European entities on a revolving basis to certain multi-seller commercial paper conduit entities. The Company maintains servicing responsibilities and the related costs are insignificant. The proceeds received are comprised of cash and interests in specified assets (the receivables sold by the Company) of the conduits that entitle the Company to the residual cash flows of such specified assets in the conduits after the commercial paper has been repaid. Neither the conduits nor the investors in those entities have recourse to other assets of the Company in the event of nonpayment by the debtors.
During the period from the June 2010 inception of the new arrangement through
December 31, 2010
, the Company recognized a loss of
$7 million
on the sale of these receivables, which is classified as Interest expense and amortization of debt discount in the consolidated statements of income. The Company classifies its interests in the conduits as Accounts and notes receivable  Other on the consolidated balance sheets and those interests are carried at fair value. Fair value of the interests is determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is based on unobservable inputs (a Level 3 measurement). The key input in the valuation is percentage of anticipated credit losses, which was
zero
, in the portfolio of receivables sold that have not yet been collected. Given the short-term nature of the underlying receivables, discount rates and prepayments are not factors in determining the fair value of the interests. At
December 31, 2010
, the carrying value of the interests held was
$157 million
, which is the Companys maximum exposure to loss related to the receivables sold.
Following is an analysis of certain cash flows between the Company and the European conduits:
(1) Presented in "Operating Activities" in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Delinquencies on the sold receivables still outstanding at
December 31, 2010
were
$42 million
. Trade accounts receivable outstanding and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2010
were
$405 million
. There were
no
credit losses on receivables sold since June 2010.
103
Table of Contents
Sale of Trade Accounts Receivable in Asia Pacific
During the year ended
December 31, 2010
, the Company sold participating interests in trade accounts receivable of select Asia Pacific entities for which the Company received cash. The Company maintains servicing responsibilities for the participating interests sold and the related costs are insignificant. The third-party holders of the participating interests do not have recourse to the Companys assets in the event of nonpayment by the debtors.
During the year ended
December 31, 2010
, the Company recognized a loss of
less than $1 million
on the sale of the participating interests in the receivables, which is classified as Interest expense and amortization of debt discount in the consolidated statements of income.
Following is an analysis of certain cash flows between the Company and the third-party holders of the participating interests:
Following is additional information related to the sale of participating interests in the receivables under this facility:
 
There were
no
credit losses on receivables relating to the participating interests sold during the year ended
December 31, 2010
. There were
no
delinquencies on the outstanding receivables related to the participating interests sold at
December 31, 2010
.
NOTE
P
 NOTES PAYABLE, LONG-TERM DEBT AND AVAILABLE CREDIT FACILITIES
104
Table of Contents
On November 4, 2010, the Company issued
$2.5 billion
of debt securities in a public offering. The offering included
$750 million
aggregate principal amount of
2.50 percent
notes due
2016
and
$1.75 billion
aggregate principal amount of
4.25 percent
notes due
2020
.
On March 9, 2009, the Company borrowed
$3 billion
under its Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated April 24, 2006 (Agreement);
$1.6 billion
of the funds were repaid on May 15, 2009;
$0.5 billion
of the funds were repaid on June 30, 2009; and the remaining
$0.9 billion
of the funds were repaid on December 30, 2009. The funds were due in April 2011 and bore interest at a variable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)-plus rate or Base Rate as defined in the Agreement. The Company used the funds to finance day-to-day operations, to repay indebtedness maturing in the ordinary course of business and for other general corporate purposes. In 2010, the Company replaced the Agreement with a new
$3 billion
Three Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated June 4, 2010 (Revolving Credit Facility) with various U.S. and foreign banks. The Revolving Credit Facility has a maturity date in June 2013 and provides for interest at a LIBOR-plus rate or Base Rate as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility. At December 31, 2010, the full
$3 billion
credit facility was available to the Company.
Debt financing for the acquisition of Rohm and Haas was provided by a
$9,226 million
draw on a Term Loan Agreement dated September 8, 2008 (Term Loan) on April 1, 2009. The original maturity date of the Term Loan was April 1, 2010, provided however, that the maturity date could have been extended for an additional year at the option of the Company, for a maximum outstanding balance of
$8.0 billion
. Prepaid up-front debt issuance costs of
$304 million
were paid. Amortization of the prepaid costs was accelerated concurrent with the repayment of the Term Loan. The Term Loan was repaid through a combination of proceeds obtained through asset sales and the issuance of debt and equity securities. At December 31, 2009, the Term Loan balance was
zero
and the Term Loan was terminated.
105
Table of Contents
On May 7, 2009, the Company issued
$6 billion
of debt securities in a public offering. The offering included
$1.75 billion
aggregate principal amount of
7.6 percent
notes due
2014
;
$3.25 billion
aggregate principal amount of
8.55 percent
notes due
2019
; and
$1 billion
aggregate principal amount of
9.4 percent
notes due
2039
. Aggregate principal amount of
$1.35 billion
of the
8.55 percent
notes due
2019
were offered by accounts and funds managed by Paulson & Co. Inc. and trusts created by members of the Haas family. These investors received notes from the Company in payment for
1.3 million
shares of the Companys Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, at par plus accrued dividends (see Note W for further information). The Company used the net proceeds received from this offering for refinancing, renewals, replacements and refunding of outstanding indebtedness, including repayment of a portion of the Term Loan.
On August 4, 2009, the Company issued
$2.75 billion
of debt securities in a public offering. The offering included
$1.25 billion
aggregate principal amount of
4.85 percent
notes due
2012
;
$1.25 billion
aggregate principal amount of
5.90 percent
notes due
2015
; and
$0.25 billion
aggregate principal amount of LIBOR-plus based floating rate notes due
2011
. The Company used the net proceeds received from this offering for refinancing, renewals, replacements and refunding of outstanding indebtedness, including repayment of a portion of the Term Loan.
The fair value of debt assumed from Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009 of
$2,576 million
is reflected in the long-term debt table above. On August 21, 2009, the Company executed a buy-back of Euro
175 million
of private placement debt acquired from Rohm and Haas and recognized a
$56 million
pretax loss on this early extinguishment, included in Sundry income  net. On September 8, 2010, the Company concluded a tender offer for any and all of
$145 million
of debentures acquired from Rohm and Haas, due June
2020
. As a result of the tender offer, the Company redeemed
$123 million
of the debentures and recognized a
$46 million
pretax loss on this early extinguishment, included in Sundry income  net.
On September 28, 2009, Calvin Capital LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, repaid a
$674 million
note payable, which was issued in September 2008.
The Companys outstanding debt of
$22.4 billion
has been issued under indentures which contain, among other provisions, covenants with which the Company must comply while the underlying notes are outstanding. Such covenants include obligations to not allow liens on principal U.S. manufacturing facilities, enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to principal U.S. manufacturing facilities, or merge or consolidate with any other corporation, or sell or convey all or substantially all of the Companys assets. The outstanding debt also contains customary default provisions. Failure of the Company to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable indenture, which would allow the note holders to accelerate the due date of the outstanding principal and accrued interest on the subject notes.
The Companys primary credit agreements contain covenant and default provisions in addition to the covenants set forth above with respect to the Companys debt. Significant other covenants and default provisions related to these agreements include:
Failure of the Company to comply with any of the covenants or default provisions could result in a default under the applicable credit agreement which would allow the lenders to not fund future loan requests and to accelerate the due date of the outstanding principal and accrued interest on any outstanding loans.
At December 31, 2010, management believes the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants and default provisions referred to above.
106
Table of Contents
NOTE
Q
 PENSION PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
Acquisition of Rohm and Haas
With the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas (see Note D), the Company assumed sponsorship of qualified and non-qualified pension and other postretirement benefit plans that provide defined benefits to U.S. and non-U.S. employees. As a result, the Company acquired the following plan assets and obligations from Rohm and Haas:
 
Pension Plans
The Company has defined benefit pension plans that cover employees in the United States and a number of other countries. The U.S. qualified plan covering the parent company is the largest plan. Benefits are based on length of service and the employees three highest consecutive years of compensation. Employees hired after January 1, 2008 earn benefits that are based on a set percentage of annual pay, plus interest.
The Companys funding policy is to contribute to the plans when pension laws and/or economics either require or encourage funding. In
2010
, Dow contributed
$708 million
to its pension plans, including contributions to fund benefit payments for its non-qualified supplemental plans. Dow expects to contribute approximately
$700 million
to its pension plans in 2011.
The weighted-average assumptions used to determine pension plan obligations and net periodic benefit costs for the plans are provided in the two tables below:
 
 
The Company determines the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by performing a detailed analysis of key economic and market factors driving historical returns for each asset class and formulating a projected return based on factors in the current environment. Factors considered include, but are not limited to, inflation, real economic growth, interest rate yield, interest rate spreads, and other valuation measures and market metrics. The expected long-term rate of return for each asset class is then weighted based on the strategic asset allocation approved by the governing body for each plan. The Companys historical experience with the pension fund asset performance is also considered. A similar process is followed in determining the expected long-term rate of return for assets held in the Companys other postretirement benefit plan trusts. The discount rates utilized to measure the pension and other postretirement obligations of the U.S. qualified plans are based on the yield on high-quality fixed income investments at the measurement date. Future expected actuarially determined cash flows of Dows major U.S. plans are matched against the Towers Watson RATE:Link yield curve (based on
60
th to
90
th percentile bond yields) to arrive at a single discount rate for each plan.
107
Table of Contents
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was
$20.1 billion
at
December 31, 2010
and
$18.9 billion
at
December 31, 2009
.
 
In addition to the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan, U.S. employees may participate in defined contribution plans (Employee Savings Plans or 401(k) plans) by contributing a portion of their compensation, which is partially matched by the Company. Defined contribution plans also cover employees in some subsidiaries in other countries, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. Expense recognized for all defined contribution plans was
$184 million
in
2010
,
$156 million
in
2009
and
$49 million
in
2008
.
Other Postretirement Benefits
The Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits to retired employees. The Companys plans outside of the United States are not significant; therefore, this discussion relates to the U.S. plans only. The plans provide health care benefits, including hospital, physicians services, drug and major medical expense coverage, and life insurance benefits. In general, for employees hired before January 1, 1993, the plans provide benefits supplemental to Medicare when retirees are eligible for these benefits. The Company and the retiree share the cost of these benefits, with the Company portion increasing as the retiree has increased years of credited service, although there is a cap on the Company portion. The Company has the ability to change these benefits at any time. Employees hired after January 1, 2008 are not covered under the plans.
The Company funds most of the cost of these health care and life insurance benefits as incurred. In 2010, Dow did not make any contributions to its other postretirement benefit plan trusts. Likewise, Dow does not expect to contribute assets to its other postretirement benefits plan trusts in 2011.
The weighted-average assumptions used to determine other postretirement benefit obligations and net periodic benefit costs for the U.S. plans are provided below:
 
Increasing the assumed medical cost trend rate by one percentage point in each year would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at
December 31, 2010
by
less than $1 million
and decrease the net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year by
$1 million
. Decreasing the assumed medical cost trend rate by one percentage point in each year would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at
December 31, 2010
by
$23 million
and the net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year by
$1 million
.
 
108
Table of Contents
(1) Includes
$11 million
of curtailment and settlement costs recorded in 2010 related to the divestiture of Styron (see Note E). See Note C for information regarding curtailment and settlement costs recorded in 2009 and 2008.
109
Table of Contents
In 2011, an estimated net loss of
$372 million
and prior service cost of
$27 million
for the defined benefit pension plans will be amortized from AOCI to net periodic benefit cost. In 2011, an estimated net loss of
$2 million
and prior service credit of
$2 million
for other postretirement benefit plans will be amortized from AOCI to net periodic benefit cost.
110
Table of Contents
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
The estimated future benefit payments, reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are presented in the following table:
 
Plan Assets
Plan assets consist mainly of equity and fixed income securities of U.S. and foreign issuers, and may include alternative investments such as real estate, private equity and absolute return strategies. At
December 31, 2010
, plan assets totaled
$15.9 billion
and included Company common stock with a value of
$13 million
(
less than 1 percent
of total plan assets). At
December 31, 2009
, plan assets totaled
$14.6 billion
and included Company common stock with a value of
$11 million
(
less than 1 percent
of total plan assets).
Investment Strategy and Risk Management for Plan Assets
The Companys investment strategy for the plan assets is to manage the assets in relation to the liability in order to pay retirement benefits to plan participants while minimizing cash contributions from the Company over the life of the plans. This is accomplished by identifying and managing the exposure to various market risks, diversifying investments across various asset classes and earning an acceptable long-term rate of return consistent with an acceptable amount of risk, while considering the liquidity needs of the plans.
The plans are permitted to use derivative instruments for investment purposes, as well as for hedging the underlying asset and liability exposure and rebalancing the asset allocation. The plans use value at risk, stress testing, scenario analysis and Monte Carlo simulation to monitor and manage both risk in the portfolios and surplus risk.
Equity securities primarily include investments in large- and small-cap companies located in both developed and emerging markets around the world. Fixed income securities are primarily U.S. dollar based and include investment grade corporate bonds of companies diversified across industries, U.S. treasuries, non-U.S. developed market securities and U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities. Alternative investments primarily include investments in real estate, private equity limited partnerships and absolute return strategies. Other significant investment types include various insurance contracts; and interest rate, equity, commodity and foreign exchange derivative investments and hedges.
 
111
Table of Contents
Concentration of Risk
The Company mitigates the credit risk of investments by establishing guidelines with investment managers that limit investment in any single issue or issuer to an amount that is not material to the portfolio being managed. These guidelines are monitored for compliance both by the Company and external managers. Credit risk related to derivative activity is mitigated by utilizing multiple counterparties and through collateral support agreements.
The JP Morgan Federal Agency money market fund is utilized as the sweep vehicle for the two largest U.S. plans, which from time to time can represent a significant investment. For one U.S. plan, approximately half of the liability is covered by a participating group annuity issued by Prudential Insurance Company.
The following tables summarize the bases used to measure the Companys pension plan assets at fair value for the years ended
December 31, 2010
and
2009
:
 
(1) Includes
$13 million
of the Companys common stock.
112
Table of Contents
(1) Includes
$11 million
of the Companys common stock.
For pension or other postretirement benefit plan assets classified as Level 1 measurements (measured using quoted prices in active markets), total fair value is either the price of the most recent trade at the time of the market close or the official close price, as defined by the exchange on which the asset is most actively traded on the last trading day of the period, multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs.
For pension or other postretirement benefit plan assets classified as Level 2 measurements, where the security is frequently traded in less active markets, fair value is based on the closing price at the end of the period; where the security is less frequently traded, fair value is based on the price a dealer would pay for the security or similar securities, adjusted for any terms specific to that asset or liability. Market inputs are obtained from well-established and recognized vendors of market data and subjected to tolerance/quality checks. For derivative assets and liabilities, standard industry models are used to calculate the fair value of the various financial instruments based on significant observable market inputs, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, swap rates, interest rates and implied volatilities obtained from various market sources.
Some pension or other postretirement benefit plan assets are held in funds where a net asset value is calculated based on the fair value of the underlying assets and the number of shares owned. The classification of the fund (Level 1, 2 or 3 measurements) is determined based on the classification of the significant holdings within the fund. For all other pension or other postretirement benefit plan assets for which observable inputs are used, fair value is derived through the use of fair value models, such as a discounted cash flow model or other standard pricing models.
113
Table of Contents
For pension or other postretirement benefit plan assets classified as Level 3 measurements, total fair value is based on significant unobservable inputs including assumptions where there is little, if any, market activity for the investment. Investment managers or fund managers provide valuations of the investment on a monthly or quarterly basis. These valuations are reviewed for reasonableness based on applicable sector, benchmark and company performance. Adjustments to valuations are made where appropriate. Where available, audited financial statements are obtained and reviewed for the investments as support for the managers investment valuation.
The following tables summarize the changes in fair value of Level 3 pension plan assets for the years ended
December 31, 2009
and
2010
:
 
The following tables summarize the bases used to measure the Companys other postretirement benefit plan assets at fair value for the years ended
December 31, 2010
and
2009
:
 
(1) Includes
no
common stock of the Company
.
(1) Includes
no
common stock of the Company.
114
Table of Contents
NOTE
R
 LEASED PROPERTY
Leased Property
The Company routinely leases premises for use as sales and administrative offices, warehouses and tanks for product storage, motor vehicles, railcars, computers, office machines, and equipment under operating leases. In addition, the Company leases aircraft in the United States. At the termination of the leases, the Company has the option to purchase certain leased equipment and buildings based on a fair market value determination. In
2009
, the Company purchased a previously leased ethylene plant in Canada for
$713 million
.
Rental expenses under operating leases, net of sublease rental income, were
$404 million
in
2010
,
$459 million
in
2009
and
$439 million
in
2008
. Future minimum rental payments under operating leases with remaining noncancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows:
 
NOTE
S
 VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES
On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted ASU 2009-17, Consolidations (Topic 810): Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities. ASU 2009-17 amends the consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities (VIEs) and requires additional disclosures concerning an enterprises continuing involvement with VIEs. The Company evaluated the impact of this guidance and determined that the adoption resulted in the January 1, 2010 consolidation of
two
additional joint ventures, an owner trust and an entity that is used to monetize accounts receivable. The Company elected prospective application of this guidance at adoption.
The following table summarizes the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities of the two additional joint ventures and the owner trust entity included in the Companys consolidated balance sheet at January 1, 2010.
 
The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities pertaining to the entity used to monetize accounts receivable, included in the Companys consolidated balance sheet at January 1, 2010, were current assets of
$817 million
(including
$436 million
of restricted cash) and current liabilities of
$589 million
.
Consolidated Variable Interest Entities
The Company holds a variable interest in
five
joint ventures for which the Company is the primary beneficiary. Three of the joint ventures are development stage enterprises, which will produce propylene oxide and hydrogen peroxide and provide terminal services in Thailand. The Companys variable interest in these joint ventures relates to cost-plus arrangements between the joint venture and the Company, involving the majority of the output on take-or-pay terms and ensuring a guaranteed return
115
Table of Contents
to the joint ventures.
Another joint venture will construct, own and operate a membrane chlor-alkali facility to be located at the Companys Freeport, Texas integrated manufacturing complex. The Companys variable interests in this joint venture relate to equity options between the partners and a cost-plus off-take arrangement between the joint venture and the Company, involving proportional purchase commitments on take-or-pay terms and ensuring a guaranteed return to the joint venture. The Company will provide the joint venture with operation and maintenance services, utilities and raw materials; market the joint ventures co-products; and toll convert the other partners proportional purchase commitments into ethylene dichloride. The joint venture is expected to begin operations in mid-2013.
The fifth joint venture was acquired through the acquisition of Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009. This joint venture manufactures products in Japan for the semiconductor industry. Each joint venture partner holds several equivalent variable interests, with the exception of a royalty agreement held exclusively between the joint venture and the Company. In addition, the entire output of the joint venture is sold to the Company for resale to third-party customers.
The Company also holds a variable interest in an owner trust, for which the Company is the primary beneficiary. The owner trust leases an ethylene facility in The Netherlands to the Company, whereby substantially all of the rights and obligations of ownership are transferred to the Company. The Companys variable interest in the owner trust relates to a residual value guarantee provided to the owner trust. Upon expiration of the lease, which matures in 2014, the Company may purchase the facility for an amount based on a fair market value determination. At
December 31, 2010
, the Company had provided to the owner trust a residual value guarantee of
$363 million
, which represents the Companys maximum exposure to loss under the lease.
As the primary beneficiary of these VIEs, the entities assets, liabilities and results of operations are included in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The other equity holders interests are reflected in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income and Noncontrolling interests in the consolidated balance sheets. The following table summarizes the carrying amounts of the entities assets and liabilities included in the Companys consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2010
and
December 31, 2009
:
 
The Company holds a variable interest in an entity created in June 2010 to monetize accounts receivable of select European entities. The Company is the primary beneficiary of this entity as a result of holding subordinated notes while maintaining servicing responsibilities for the accounts receivable. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities pertaining to this entity, included in the Companys consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2010
, were current assets of
$158 million
(
zero
restricted) and current liabilities of
$1 million
(
$1 million
nonrecourse). Prior to the creation of this entity, the Company held a variable interest in another entity that was also used to monetize accounts receivable originated by several European subsidiaries. That arrangement was terminated in June 2010. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of terminating the arrangement.
Amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets and the table above as restricted assets or nonrecourse obligations relating to consolidated VIEs at
December 31, 2010
are adjusted for intercompany eliminations, parental guarantees and residual value guarantees.
In September 2001, Hobbes Capital S.A. (Hobbes), a former consolidated foreign subsidiary of the Company, issued
$500 million
of preferred securities in the form of equity certificates. The certificates provided a floating rate of return (which could be reinvested) based on LIBOR. Under the accounting guidance for consolidation, Hobbes was a VIE and the Company was the primary beneficiary. During the third quarter of 2008, the other partner of Hobbes redeemed its
$674 million
ownership in Hobbes. The minority ownership was redeemed in a non-cash transaction in exchange for a three-year note payable with a
116
Table of Contents
floating rate based on LIBOR, which was repaid in September 2009. Prior to redemption, the preferred return was included in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income.
Nonconsolidated Variable Interest Entity
The Company holds a variable interest in a joint venture accounted for under the equity method of accounting, acquired through the acquisition of Rohm and Haas on April 1, 2009. The joint venture manufactures crude acrylic acid in the United States and Germany on behalf of the Company and the other joint venture partner. The variable interest relates to a cost-plus arrangement between the joint venture and each joint venture partner. The Company is not the primary beneficiary, as a majority of the joint ventures output is sold to the other joint venture partner, and therefore the entity is not consolidated. At
December 31, 2010
, the Companys investment in the joint venture was
$144 million
, classified as Investment in nonconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated balance sheets, representing the Companys maximum exposure to loss.
NOTE
T
 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
The Company grants stock-based compensation to employees and non-employee directors in the form of the Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) and stock option plans, which include deferred and restricted stock. Information regarding these plans is provided below.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
The Company grants stock-based compensation awards that vest over a specified period or upon employees meeting certain performance and/or retirement eligibility criteria. The fair value of equity instruments issued to employees is measured on the grant date. The fair value of liability instruments issued to employees (specifically, performance deferred stock awards, which are granted to executive employees subject to stock ownership requirements, that provide the recipient the option to elect to receive a cash payment equal to the value of the stock award on the date of delivery) is measured at the end of each quarter. The fair value of equity and liability instruments is expensed over the vesting period or, in the case of retirement, from the grant date to the date on which retirement eligibility provisions have been met and additional service is no longer required.
The Company uses a lattice-based option valuation model to estimate the fair value of stock options, the Black-Scholes option valuation model for subscriptions to purchase shares under the ESPP and Monte Carlo simulation for the market portion of performance deferred stock awards. The weighted-average assumptions used to calculate total stock-based compensation are included in the following table:
 
The dividend yield assumption for
2010
was based on a
30 percent
 /
70 percent
blend of the Companys current declared dividend as a percentage of the stock price on the grant date and a 10-year dividend yield average. The dividend yield assumption for
2009
was based on a 10-year dividend yield average. The dividend yield assumption for
2008
was based on the Companys current declared dividend as a percentage of the stock price on the grant date. The expected volatility assumption for 2009 was based entirely on historical daily volatility, while the expected volatility assumption for 2010 and 2008 was based on an equal weighting of the historical daily volatility and current implied volatility from exchange-traded options for the contractual term of the options. The risk-free interest rate for all years was based on the weighted-average of U.S. Treasury strip rates over the contractual term of the options. The expected life of stock options granted was based on an analysis of historical exercise patterns.
Employees Stock Purchase Plan
On February 13, 2003, the Board of Directors authorized a 10-year ESPP, which was approved by stockholders at the Companys annual meeting on May 8, 2003. Under the 2010 annual offering, most employees were eligible to purchase shares of common stock of the Company valued at up to
10 percent
of their annual base earnings. The value is determined using the plan price multiplied by the number of shares subscribed to by the employee. The plan price of the stock is set each year at no less than
85 percent
of market price.
117
Table of Contents
Stock Option Plans
Under the 1988 Award and Option Plan (the 1988 Plan), a plan approved by stockholders, the Company may grant options or shares of common stock to its employees subject to certain annual and individual limits. The terms of the grants are fixed at the grant date. At
December 31, 2010
, there were
22,612,549
 shares available for grant under this plan.
Under the 1994 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan, the Company was previously allowed to grant up to
300,000
options to non-employee directors; however, no additional grants will be made under this plan. At
December 31, 2010
, there were
34,650
options outstanding under this plan.
Under the 1998 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan, the Company was previously allowed to grant up to
600,000
options to non-employee directors; however, no additional grants will be made under this plan. At
December 31, 2010
, there were
85,000
 options outstanding under this plan.
The exercise price of each stock option equals the market price of the Companys stock on the date of grant. Options vest from
one
to
three
years, and have a maximum term of
10
 years.
The following table provides stock option activity for 2010:
118
Table of Contents
Total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards of
$23 million
at
December 31, 2010
is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
0.87
 years.
Deferred and Restricted Stock
Under the 1988 Plan, the Company grants deferred stock to certain employees. The grants vest after a designated period of time, generally
two
to
five
years. The following table shows changes in nonvested deferred stock:
 
Total unrecognized compensation cost related to deferred stock awards of
$82 million
at
December 31, 2010
is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
0.88
 years. At
December 31, 2010
, approximately
178,288
deferred shares with a grant date weighted-average fair value per share of
$29.88
had previously vested, but were not issued. These shares are scheduled to be issued to employees within one to four years or upon retirement.
Also under the 1988 Plan, the Company has granted performance deferred stock awards that vest when the Company attains specified performance targets over a predetermined period, generally one to three years. Compensation expense related to performance deferred stock awards is recognized over the lesser of the service or performance period. Changes in the fair value of liability instruments are recognized as compensation expense each quarter. The following table shows the performance deferred stock awards granted:
 
119
Table of Contents
The following table shows changes in nonvested performance deferred stock:
 
During 2010, the Company settled
0.3 million
shares of performance deferred stock for
$8 million
in cash. During the second quarter of 2008, the Company settled
0.9 million
shares of performance deferred stock for
$35 million
in cash. Total unrecognized compensation cost related to performance deferred stock awards of
$32 million
at
December 31, 2010
is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
0.51
 years. At
December 31, 2010
, approximately
0.9 million
performance deferred shares with a grant date weighted-average fair value of
$38.38
per share were vested, but not issued. These shares are scheduled to be issued in April 2011.
In addition, the Company is authorized to grant up to
300,000
deferred shares of common stock to executive officers of the Company under the 1994 Executive Performance Plan.
Under the 2003 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan, a plan approved by stockholders, the Company may grant up to
1.5 million
shares (including options, restricted stock and deferred stock) to non-employee directors over the 10-year duration of the program, subject to an annual aggregate award limit of
25,000
shares for each individual director. In 2010,
38,940
shares of restricted stock with a weighted-average fair value of
$30.00
per share were issued under this plan. The restricted stock issued under this plan cannot be sold, assigned, pledged or otherwise transferred by the non-employee director, until the director is no longer a member of the Board.
NOTE
U
 LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
In early 1998, a subsidiary of the Company purchased the
20 percent
limited partner interests of outside investors in a consolidated subsidiary, Chemtech Royalty Associates L.P., for a fair value of
$210 million
in accordance with wind-up provisions in the partnership agreement. The limited partnership was renamed Chemtech II L.P. (Chemtech II). In June 1998, the Company contributed assets with an aggregate fair value of
$783 million
(through a wholly owned subsidiary) to Chemtech II and an outside investor acquired a limited partner interest in Chemtech II totaling
20 percent
in exchange for
$200 million
. In September 2000, the Company contributed additional assets with an aggregate fair value of
$18 million
(through a wholly owned subsidiary) to Chemtech II. During the second quarter of 2008, the minority outside investor presented the Company with a liquidation notice, resulting in Dows election to purchase the outside investors share in the partnership for
$200 million
. The transaction was completed in the second quarter of 2008.
120
Table of Contents
Prior to the sale of its interest, the outside investor in Chemtech II received a cumulative annual priority return on its investment and participated in residual earnings. For financial reporting purposes, the assets (other than intercompany loans, which were eliminated), liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of the partnership and subsidiaries were included in the Companys consolidated financial statements, and the outside investors limited partner interest was included in Noncontrolling interests in the consolidated balance sheets.
NOTE
V
 PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARIES
The following transactions were entered into for the purpose of providing diversified sources of funds to the Company.
In July 1999, Tornado Finance V.O.F., a former consolidated foreign subsidiary of the Company, issued
$500 million
of preferred securities in the form of preferred partnership units. The units provided a distribution of
7.965 percent
, could be redeemed in 2009 or thereafter, and could be called at any time by the subsidiary. On June 4, 2009, the preferred partner notified Tornado Finance V.O.F. that the preferred partnership units would be redeemed in full on July 9, 2009, as permitted by the terms of the partnership agreement. On July 9, 2009, the preferred partnership units and accrued dividends were redeemed for a total of
$520 million
. Upon redemption, Tornado Finance V.O.F. was dissolved. The distributions were included in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income.
In September 2001, Hobbes Capital S.A. (Hobbes), a former consolidated foreign subsidiary of the Company, issued
$500 million
of preferred securities in the form of equity certificates. The certificates provided a floating rate of return (which could be reinvested) based on LIBOR. During the third quarter of 2008, the other partner of Hobbes redeemed its
$674 million
ownership in Hobbes. The minority ownership was redeemed in a non-cash transaction in exchange for a three-year note payable with a floating rate based on LIBOR, which was repaid in September 2009. Prior to redemption, the preferred return was included in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income.
NOTE
W
 REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCKS
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B
With the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas, certain trusts established by members of the Haas family (the Haas Trusts) and Paulson & Co. Inc. (Paulson) purchased from the Company Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (preferred series B) in the amount of
2.5 million
shares (Haas Trusts 
1.5 million
shares; Paulson 
1.0 million
shares) for an aggregate price of
$2.5 billion
(Haas Trusts 
$1.5 billion
; Paulson 
$1.0 billion
). Under the terms of the preferred series B, the holders were entitled to cumulative dividends at a rate of
7 percent
 per annum in cash and
8 percent
 per annum either in cash or as an increase in the liquidation preference of the preferred series B, at the Companys option.
In May 2009, the Company entered into a purchase agreement with the Haas Trusts and Paulson, whereby the Haas Trusts and Paulson agreed to sell to the Company their shares of the preferred series B in consideration for shares of the Companys common stock and/or notes, at the discretion of the Company. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, the Company issued
83.3 million
shares of its common stock to the Haas Trusts and Paulson in consideration for the purchase of
1.2 million
shares of preferred series B held by the Haas Trusts and Paulson. In a separate transaction as part of a
$6 billion
offering of senior notes, the Company issued
$1.35 billion
aggregate principal amount of
8.55 percent
notes due 2019 to the Haas Trusts and Paulson in consideration for the purchase of the remaining
1.3 million
shares of preferred series B at par plus accrued dividends. Upon the consummation of these transactions, all shares of preferred series B were retired. For additional information concerning the common stock and debt issuances, see Notes P and X.
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C
With the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas, the Haas Trusts invested
$500 million
in Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C (preferred series C). Under the terms of the preferred series C, prior to June 8, 2009, the holders were entitled to cumulative dividends at a rate of
7 percent
 per annum in cash and
8 percent
per annum either in cash or as an increase in the liquidation preference of the preferred series C, at the Companys option. On and after June 8, 2009, the Company would have been required to pay cumulative dividends of
12 percent
 per annum in cash.
The preferred series C shares would automatically convert to common stock on the date immediately following the ten full trading days commencing on the date on which there was an effective shelf registration statement relating to the common stock underlying the preferred series C, if such registration statement was effective prior to June 8, 2009. On May 26, 2009, the Company entered into an underwriting agreement and filed the corresponding shelf registration statement to effect the conversion of preferred series C into the Companys common stock in accordance with the terms of the preferred series C.
121
Table of Contents
Under the terms of the preferred series C, the shares of preferred series C would convert into shares of the Companys common stock at a conversion price per share of common stock based upon
95 percent
of the average of the common stock volume-weighted average price for the ten trading days preceding the conversion. After ten full trading days and upon the automatic conversion of the preferred series C, the Company issued
31.0 million
shares of the Companys common stock to the Haas Trusts on June 9, 2009, and all shares of preferred series C were retired (see Note X).
NOTE
X
 STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A
Equity securities in the form of Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (preferred series A) were issued on April 1, 2009 to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in the amount of
$3 billion
(
3 million
shares) and the Kuwait Investment Authority in the amount of
$1 billion
(
1 million
shares). The Company will pay cumulative dividends on preferred series A at a rate of
8.5
percent per annum in either cash, shares of common stock, or any combination thereof, at the option of the Company. Dividends may be deferred indefinitely, at the Companys option. If deferred, common stock dividends must also be deferred. Any past due and unpaid dividends will accrue additional dividends at a rate of
10
 percent per annum, compounded quarterly. If dividends are deferred for any six quarters, the preferred series A shareholders may elect two directors to the Companys Board of Directors until all past due dividends are paid. Ongoing dividends related to preferred series A are
$85 million
per quarter; no dividends had been deferred at
December 31, 2010
.
Shareholders of preferred series A may convert all or any portion of their shares, at their option, at any time, into shares of the Companys common stock at an initial conversion rate of
24.2010
 shares of common stock for each share of preferred series A. Under certain circumstances, the Company will be required to adjust the conversion rate. On or after the fifth anniversary of the issuance date, if the common stock price exceeds
$53.72
 per share for any 20 trading days in a consecutive 30-day window, the Company may, at its option, at any time, in whole or in part, convert preferred series A into common stock at the then applicable conversion rate. Upon conversion, accrued and unpaid dividends will be payable, at the option of the Company, in either cash, shares of common stock, or any combination thereof.
Common Stock
On May 6, 2009, the Company launched a public offering of
150.0 million
shares of its common stock at a price of
$15.00
 per share. Included in the
150.0 million
shares offered to the public were
83.3 million
shares issued to the Haas Trusts and Paulson in consideration for shares of preferred series B held by the Haas Trusts and Paulson (see Note W). Gross proceeds were
$2,250 million
, of which the Companys net proceeds (after underwriting discounts and commissions) were
$966 million
for the sale of the Companys
66.7 million
shares.
On May 26, 2009, the Company entered into an underwriting agreement and filed the corresponding shelf registration statement to effect the conversion of the preferred series C into shares of the Companys common stock (see Note W). On June 9, 2009, following the end of the sale period and determination of the share conversion amount, the Company issued
31.0 million
shares to the Haas Trusts.
The Company issues common stock shares for purchases under the Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) out of treasury stock or as new common stock shares. The number of new common stock shares issued to employees under the Companys ESPP was
10.0 million
in
2010
. No new common shares were issued to ESPP participants in
2009
or
2008
, as all share issuances were satisfied from treasury stock.
Retained Earnings
There are no significant restrictions limiting the Companys ability to pay dividends.
Undistributed earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates included in retained earnings were
$2,264 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$1,826 million
at
December 31, 2009
.
Employee Stock Ownership Plan
The Company has the Dow Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the ESOP), which is an integral part of The Dow Chemical Company Employees Savings Plan (the Plan). A significant majority of full-time employees in the United States are eligible to participate in the Plan. The Company uses the ESOP to provide the Companys matching contribution in the form of the Companys stock to Plan participants.
In connection with the acquisition of Rohm and Haas (see Note D),
$552 million
in cash was paid to the Rohm and Haas Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the Rohm and Haas ESOP) for
7.0 million
shares of Rohm and Haas common stock held by the Rohm and Haas ESOP on April 1, 2009. On the date of the acquisition, the Rohm and Haas ESOP was
122
Table of Contents
merged into the Plan, and the Company assumed the
$78 million
balance of debt at
9.8
 percent interest with final maturity in 2020 that was used to finance share purchases by the Rohm and Haas ESOP in 1990. The outstanding balance of the debt was
$64 million
at
December 31, 2010
.
On May 11, 2009, the Company sold
36.7 million
shares of common stock (from treasury stock) to the ESOP at a price of
$15.0561
per share for a total of
$553 million
. The treasury stock was carried at an aggregate historical cost of
$1,529 million
.
Dividends on unallocated shares held by the ESOP are used by the ESOP to make debt service payments. Dividends on allocated shares are used by the ESOP to make debt service payments to the extent needed; otherwise, they are paid to the Plan participants. Shares are released for allocation to participants based on the ratio of the current years debt service to the sum of the principal and interest payments over the life of the loan. The shares are allocated to Plan participants in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
Compensation expense for allocated shares is recorded at the fair value of the shares on the date of allocation. ESOP shares that have not been released or committed to be released are not considered outstanding for purposes of computing basic and diluted earnings per share.
Compensation expense for ESOP shares allocated to plan participants was
$81 million
for the year ended
December 31, 2010
(
$48 million
for the year ended
December 31, 2009
);
no
shares were allocated to plan participants in
2008
. At
December 31, 2010
,
14.4 million
shares out of a total
46.0 million
shares held by the ESOP had been allocated to participants accounts;
0.9 million
shares were released but unallocated; and
30.7 million
shares, at a fair value of
$1,050 million
, were considered unearned.
Treasury Stock
On October 26, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved a share buy-back program, authorizing up to
$2 billion
to be spent on the repurchase of the Companys common stock (the 2006 Program). Purchases under the 2006 Program began in March 2007. In 2008, the Company purchased
21.9 million
shares under the 2006 Program, bringing the total number of shares purchased under this program to
48.1 million
and bringing the program to a close.
The total number of treasury shares purchased by the Company, including shares received from employees and non-employee directors to pay taxes owed to the Company as a result of the exercise of stock options or the delivery of deferred stock, was
0.5 million
in
2010
,
0.5 million
in
2009
and
23.0 million
in
2008
.
The Company issues shares for options exercised as well as for the release of deferred and restricted stock out of treasury stock or as new common stock shares. The number of treasury shares issued to employees and non-employee directors under the Companys option and purchase programs was
7.5 million
in
2010
,
8.7 million
in
2009
and
7.0 million
in
2008
.
 
On May 11, 2009, the Company sold
36.7 million
shares from treasury stock to the ESOP.
NOTE
Y
 INCOME TAXES
Operating loss carryforwards amounted to
$4,572 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$4,550 million
at
December 31, 2009
. At
December 31, 2010
,
$405 million
of the operating loss carryforwards were subject to expiration in 2011 through 2015. The remaining operating loss carryforwards expire in years beyond 2015 or have an indefinite carryforward period. Tax credit carryforwards at
December 31, 2010
amounted to
$479 million
(
$656 million
at
December 31, 2009
), net of uncertain tax positions, of which
$12 million
is subject to expiration in 2011 through 2015. The remaining tax credit carryforwards expire in years beyond 2015.
Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and related companies that are deemed to be permanently invested amounted to
$9,798 million
at
December 31, 2010
,
$8,707 million
at
December 31, 2009
and
$8,043 million
at
December 31, 2008
. It is not practicable to calculate the unrecognized deferred tax liability on those earnings.
123
Table of Contents
The Company had valuation allowances that primarily related to the realization of recorded tax benefits on tax loss carryforwards from operations in the United States, Brazil and Asia Pacific of
$682 million
at
December 31, 2010
; valuation allowances of
$721 million
at
December 31, 2009
primarily related to the realization of recorded tax benefits on tax loss carryforwards from operations in the United States, Brazil, Asia Pacific and Denmark.
The tax rate for 2010 was positively impacted by a high level of equity earnings as a percentage of total earnings, the release of a tax valuation allowance, a tax law change, and improved financial results in jurisdictions with tax rates that are lower than the U.S. statutory rate. These factors resulted in an effective tax rate of
17.2 percent
for 2010.
The tax rate for 2009 was reduced by several factors: a significantly higher level of equity earnings as a percent of total earnings, favorable accrual-to-return adjustments in various geographies, the recognition of domestic losses and an improvement in financial results in jurisdictions with tax rates that are lower than the U.S. statutory rate. These factors resulted in an effective tax rate of negative
20.7 percent
for 2009.
The tax rate for 2008 was negatively impacted by increased foreign taxes, declining financial results in jurisdictions with lower tax rates than the United States and goodwill impairment losses that are not deductible for tax purposes (see Note I). Additionally, during 2008, the Company determined that it was more likely than not that certain tax loss carryforwards in the United States and Asia Pacific would not be utilized due to deteriorating market conditions for the Companys products in these areas, which resulted in increases in valuation allowances of
$48 million
in the United States and
$24 million
in Asia Pacific. These events resulted in an effective tax rate for 2008 that was higher than the U.S. statutory rate. The Companys reported effective tax rate for 2008 was
51.0 percent
.
 
 
(1) Includes the tax provision for statutory taxable income in foreign jurisdictions for which there is no corresponding amount in Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes.
124
Table of Contents
The provision for income taxes attributable to discontinued operations (domestic) was
$65 million
for 2009 and
$16 million
for 2008 (see Note E). The Company did not report discontinued operations in 2010.
(1) Included in current deferred tax assets are prepaid tax assets totaling
$100 million
in
2010
and
$151 million
in
2009
.
(2) The Company assumed
$2,875 million
of deferred tax liabilities with the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas; see Note D.
Uncertain Tax Positions
At
December 31, 2010
, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was
$319 million
(
$650 million
at
December 31, 2009
), of which
$297 million
would impact the effective tax rate, if recognized (
$610 million
at
December 31, 2009
). The reduction in 2010 was primarily due to settlements of uncertain tax positions with tax authorities.
Interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions are recognized as components of the Provision (Credit) for income taxes, and totaled
$6 million
in
2010
,
$10 million
in
2009
and
$3 million
in
2008
. The Companys accrual for interest and penalties was
$58 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$68 million
at
December 31, 2009
.
 
The Company is currently under examination in a number of tax jurisdictions. It is reasonably possible that these examinations may be resolved within twelve months. As a result, it is reasonably possible that the total gross unrecognized tax benefits of the Company at
December 31, 2010
may be reduced by approximately
$30 million
to
$60 million
. The impact on the Companys results of operations is not expected to be material.
125
Table of Contents
Tax years that remain subject to examination for the Companys major tax jurisdictions are shown below:
The reserve for non-income tax contingencies related to issues in the United States and foreign locations was
$156 million
at
December 31, 2010
and
$189 million
at
December 31, 2009
. This is managements best estimate of the potential liability for non-income tax contingencies. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law, both legislated and concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of those accrued will have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
NOTE
Z
 OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
Dow is a diversified, worldwide manufacturer and supplier of products used primarily as raw materials in the manufacture of customer products and services. The Company serves the following industries: appliance; automotive; agricultural; building and construction; chemical processing; electronics; furniture; housewares; oil and gas; packaging; paints, coatings and adhesives; personal care; pharmaceutical; processed foods; pulp and paper; textile and carpet; utilities; and water treatment.
Dow conducts its worldwide operations through global businesses, which are reported in six operating segments. The Companys operating segments are Electronic and Functional Materials, Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions, Agricultural Sciences, Performance Materials, Performance Plastics and Feedstocks and Energy. Corporate contains the reconciliation between the totals for the reportable segments and the Companys totals and includes research and other expenses related to new business development activities, and other corporate items not allocated to the reportable operating segments.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2011, the Company changed its reportable segments due to recent changes in the Company's organization. The segment financial information included in these financial statements has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect these changes for all periods presented. Following are the new segments along with key changes:
Electronic and Functional Materials
Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions
126
Table of Contents
Agricultural Sciences
Performance Materials
Performance Plastics
Feedstocks and Energy
The Company uses EBITDA (which Dow defines as earnings (i.e., "Net Income") before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) as its measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes. EBITDA by operating segment includes all operating items relating to the businesses, except depreciation and amortization; items that principally apply to the Company as a whole are assigned to Corporate. See table toward the end of this footnote for depreciation and amortization by segment, as well as a reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes.
The Corporate Profile included below describes the operating segments, and the types of products and services from which their revenues are derived.
Corporate Profile
Dow combines the power of science and technology with the Human Element to passionately innovate what is essential to human progress. The Company connects chemistry and innovation with the principles of sustainability to help address many of the world's most challenging problems such as the need for clean water, renewable energy generation and conservation, and increasing agricultural productivity. Dow's diversified industry-leading portfolio of specialty chemical, advanced materials, agrosciences and plastics businesses deliver a broad range of technology-based products and solutions to customers in approximately
160
 countries and in high growth sectors such as electronics, water, energy, coatings and agriculture. In
2010
, Dow had annual sales of
$53.7 billion
and employed approximately
50,000
people worldwide. The Company's more than
5,000
products are manufactured at
188
 sites in
35
 countries across the globe. The following descriptions of the Company's
six
operating segments include a representative listing of products for each business.
ELECTRONIC AND FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS
Applications:
chemical mechanical planarization pads and slurries
chemical processing aids and intermediates 
electronic displays
food and pharmaceutical processing and ingredients
home and personal care ingredients
hygiene and infection control
photolithography materials
printed circuit board materials
process and materials preservation
semiconductor packaging, connectors and industrial finishing
Dow Electronic Materials
is a leading global supplier of materials for chemical mechanical planarization (CMP); materials used in the production of electronic displays, including brightness films, diffusers, metalorganic light emitting diode (LED) precursors and organic light emitting diode (OLED) materials; products and technologies that drive leading edge semiconductor design; materials used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards; and integrated metallization processes critical for interconnection, corrosion resistance, metal finishing and decorative applications. These enabling materials are found in applications such as consumer electronics, flat panel displays and telecommunications. Dow Electronic Materials includes Display Technologies, Growth Technologies, Interconnect Technologies and Semiconductor Technologies.
127
Table of Contents
DURAPOSIT electroless nickel process; ENLIGHT products for photovoltaic manufacturers; EPIC immersion photoresists; INTERVIA photodielectrics for advanced packaging; LITHOJET digital imaging processes; OPTOGRADE metalorganic precursors; VISIONPAD CMP pads
Functional Materials
is a portfolio of businesses characterized by a vast global footprint, a broad array of unique chemistries, multi-functional ingredients and technology capabilities, combined with key positions in the pharmaceuticals; food, home and personal care; and industrial specialty industries. These technology capabilities and market platforms enable the businesses to develop innovative solutions that address modern societal needs for clean water and air; material preservation; and improved health care, disease prevention, nutrition and wellness. Functional Materials includes Dow Home and Personal Care, Dow Microbial Control, Dow Wolff Cellulosics and Performance Additives.
The Electronic and Functional Materials segment also includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company.
COATINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE SOLUTIONS
Applications:
building and construction, insulation and weatherization, roofing membrane systems, adhesives and sealants
cellulosic-based construction additives
construction materials (vinyl siding, vinyl windows, vinyl fencing) 
flexible and rigid packaging
general mortars and concrete, cement modifiers and plasters, tile adhesives and grouts
house and traffic paints
metal coatings
pipeline coatings
transportation and corrosion protection
water purification
Dow Building and Construction
is comprised of three global businesses - Dow Building Solutions, Dow Construction Chemicals and Dow Solar Solutions - that offer extensive lines of industry-leading insulation, housewrap, sealant and adhesive products and systems, as well as construction chemical solutions and building-integrated photovoltaics. Through its strong sales support, customer service and technical expertise, Dow Building Solutions provides meaningful solutions for improving the energy efficiency in homes and buildings today, while also addressing the industry's emerging needs and demands. Dow Construction Chemicals provides solutions for increased durability, greater water resistance and lower systems costs. As a leader in insulation solutions, the business' products help curb escalating utility bills, reduce a building's carbon footprint and provide a more comfortable indoor environment. Dow Solar Solutions is focused on developing the next generation of solar energy products to help solve global energy challenges.
128
Table of Contents
Dow Coating Materials
is the largest coatings supplier in the world and a premier supplier of raw materials for architectural paints and industrial coatings. The business manufactures and delivers solutions that leverage high quality, technologically advanced product offerings for paint and coatings. The business also offers technologies used in industrial coatings applications, including packaging, pipelines, wood, automotive, marine, maintenance and protective industries. The business is also the leader in the conversion of solvent to water-based technologies, which enable customers to offer more environmentally friendly products, including low volatile organic compound (VOC) paints and other sustainable coatings.
Dow Water and Process Solutions
is a leading water purification and separation technology supplier, developing cost-effective technologies for water purification, desalination and separation solutions for specialty applications that make water safer, cleaner and more available; food better tasting; and pharmaceuticals more effective.
The
Performance Monomers
business produces specialty monomer products that are sold externally as well as consumed internally as building blocks used in downstream polymer businesses. The business' products are used in several applications, including cleaning materials, personal care products, paints, coatings and inks.
The Coatings and Infrastructure Solutions segment also includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation, a joint venture of the Company.
AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
Applications
: agricultural seeds, traits (genes) and oils
control of weeds, insects and plant diseases for agriculture and pest management
Dow AgroSciences
is a global leader in providing agricultural and plant biotechnology products, pest management solutions and healthy oils. The business invents, develops, manufactures and markets products for use in agriculture, industrial and commercial pest management, and food service.
The Agricultural Sciences segment also includes the results of the AgroFresh business, providing a portfolio of products used for maintaining the freshness of fruits, vegetables and flowers.
129
Table of Contents
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS
Applications
: adhesives
aircraft and runway deicing fluids
appliances
automotive interiors, exteriors, under-the-hood and body engineered systems
bedding
caps and closures 
carpeting
chelating agents
chemical intermediates
civil engineering
cleaning products
composites
construction
corrosion inhibitors
detergents, cleaners and fabric softeners
electrical castings, potting and encapsulation and tooling 
electrical laminates
electronics
flavors and fragrances
flooring
footwear
furniture
gas treatment
gaskets and sealing components
heat transfer fluids
home and office furnishings
industrial coatings
manufactured housing and modular construction
mattresses
medical equipment
metalworking fluids
mining
packaging
pipe treatment
pressure sensitive adhesives
sealants
surfactants
transportation
vinyl exteriors
waterproofing membranes
The
Amines
business is the world's largest producer of ethanolamines and a leading global provider of ethyleneamines, isopropanolamines and chelants. These products are used in a wide variety of applications, including lube oil additives, wet-strength resins, metalworking fluids, liquid detergents, personal care products, and herbicide and fungicide formulations for the agricultural industry.
The
Chlorinated Organics
business is the world's largest supplier of chlorinated organic products and services for intermediates, which are used in the production of fluoropolymers, refrigerants, methyl cellulose, quaternary ammonium compounds and silicones; and solvents, which are used as process agents in chemicals manufacturing, surface preparation, dry cleaning and pharmaceuticals.
Dow Automotive Systems
is a leading global provider of technology-driven solutions that meet consumer demands for vehicles that are safer, stronger, quieter, lighter, and more comfortable and stylish. The business provides adhesives, glass bonding systems, emissions control technology, performance plastics, polyurethane products and systems, films, fluids and acoustical management solutions to original equipment manufacturers and tier, aftermarket and commercial transportation customers. With offices and application development centers around the world, Dow Automotive Systems provides materials science expertise and comprehensive technical capabilities to its customers worldwide.
Dow Formulated Systems
manufactures and markets custom formulated, rigid and semi-rigid, flexible, integral skin and microcellular polyurethane foams and systems and tailor-made epoxy solutions and systems. These products are used in a broad range of applications, including appliances, athletic equipment, automotive, bedding, construction, decorative molding, furniture, shoe soles and wind turbines.
Dow Plastic Additives
is a worldwide supplier of additives and solutions used in a large variety of applications ranging from construction materials and packaging containers to consumer appliances and electronics, business machines and automotive parts. These additives and solutions improve impact strength, clarity, chemical and heat resistance, weather resistance and color retention properties of base polymers. They also aid in the processing of plastics by increasing melt strength, heat stability and lubricity, thereby enabling plastics processors to achieve greater output rates and increased efficiency without loss of quality.
130
Table of Contents
The
Epoxy
business is a supplier of epoxy resins and intermediates that serves a diverse array of end-markets and applications, including electrical laminates, civil engineering, composites, infrastructure and consumer goods. The business is one of the most vertically-integrated epoxy suppliers in the world. This position helps provide cost advantages and economies of scale across the value chain, as well as dependable product and service delivery around the globe.
The
Oxygenated Solvents
business is the world's largest producer of oxygenated solvents, with the leading position in butanol, E- and P-series glycol ethers, as well as several other products in its portfolio. The business offers the broadest range of solvents for servicing a diverse mix of end-use markets and applications, including paints and coatings, cleaning products, inks, electronics, pharmaceuticals, mining, personal care and other applications.
The
Polyglycols, Surfactants and Fluids
business is one of the world's leading suppliers of polyglycols and surfactants, with a broad range of products and technology and a proven record of performance and economy. The business also produces a broad line of lubricants, hydraulic fluids, aircraft deicing fluids and thermal fluids, with some of the most recognized brand names in the industry. Product applications include chemical processing, cleaning, heating, cooling, food and beverage processing, fuel additives, paints and coatings, pharmaceuticals and silicone surfactants.
The
Polyurethanes
business is a leading global producer of polyurethane raw materials. Dow's polyurethane products offer a broad range of solutions for flexible foam, rigid foam, coating, adhesive, sealant, and elastomer applications and are used in a variety of end-markets, including appliances, automotive, bedding, construction, electronics, flooring, footwear, furniture and packaging. The business is the leading global producer of propylene oxide (PO) and propylene glycol (PG) - offering PO via both a traditional process and a sustainable hydrogen peroxide to propylene oxide (HPPO) manufacturing technology, and a portfolio of PG products for a wide variety of applications.
The Performance Materials segment also includes the results of Dow Fiber Solutions, providing differentiated fibers and process improvements to the textile industry; Dow Haltermann, a provider of world-class contract manufacturing services to companies in the fine and specialty chemicals and polymers industries; Dow Oil and Gas, providing products for use in exploration and production, refining and gas processing, transportation, and fuel and lubricant performance; and SAFECHEM, a wholly owned subsidiary that manufactures closed-loop systems to manage the risks associated with chlorinated solvents. The segment also includes a portion of the results of the SCGDow Group, joint ventures of the Company.
131
Table of Contents
Divestitures:
PERFORMANCE PLASTICS
Applications
: adhesives
agricultural films
appliances and appliance housings
automotive parts and trim
beverage bottles
bins, crates, pails and pallets
building and construction
coatings
consumer and durable goods 
consumer electronics
disposable diaper liners
fibers and nonwovens
food and specialty packaging
hoses and tubing
household and industrial bottles
housewares
hygiene and medical films
industrial and consumer films and foams
information technology
leather, textile, graphic arts and paper
oil tanks and road equipment
plastic pipe
processing aids for plastic production
tapes and labels
toys, playground equipment and recreational products
wire and cable insulation and jacketing materials for power utility and telecommunications
Dow Elastomers
offers a unique set of elastomer products for customers worldwide. The business is focused on delivering innovative solutions that allow for differentiated participation in multiple industries and applications. The business offers a broad range of performance elastomers and plastomers, specialty copolymers and synthetic rubber. Key applications include adhesives, automotive, building and construction, hygiene and medical, and consumer solutions.
Dow Electrical and Telecommunications
is a leading global provider of products, technology, solutions and expertise that set standards for reliability, longevity, efficiency, ease of installation and protection used by the power and telecommunications industries in the transmission, distribution and consumption of power, voice and data. Dow Electrical and Telecommunications collaborates with cable makers, other industry suppliers, utilities, municipalities, testing institutes and other organizations around the world to develop solutions and create mutual value that will sustain these industries for years to come.
Dow Packaging and Converting
is a portfolio of businesses that primarily manufacture sticking and bonding solutions and specialty films for a wide range of applications, including adhesive tapes and paper labels, flexible packaging, film substrates, industrial and consumer films and foams, leather, rigid packaging, and textile and imaging. These products are supported with market recognized best-in-class technical support and end-use application knowledge. Many of the businesses' water-borne technologies are well-positioned to support environmentally preferred applications.
132
Table of Contents
The
Polyethylene
business is the world's leading supplier of polyethylene-based solutions through sustainable product differentiation. With multiple catalyst and process technologies, the business offers customers one of the industry's broadest ranges of polyethylene resins. With its industry-leading portfolio of product and technology solutions, the business primarily serves performance packaging and hygiene and medical end-markets.
The
Polypropylene
business is a major global polypropylene supplier that provides a broad range of products and solutions tailored to customer needs by leveraging Dow's leading manufacturing and application technology, research and product development expertise, extensive market knowledge and strong customer relationships.
The Performance Plastics segment also includes the results of the Plastics Licensing and Catalyst business. The segment also includes the results of Equipolymers and Univation Technologies, LLC (which licenses the UNIPOL polyethylene process and sells related catalysts, including metallocene catalysts), as well as a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the SCGDow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
Divestiture:
FEEDSTOCKS AND ENERGY
Applications
: agricultural products
alumina
automotive antifreeze and coolant systems
carpet and textiles
chemical processing
dry cleaning
household cleaners and plastic products
inks
metal cleaning
packaging, food and beverage containers
paints, coatings and adhesives
personal care products
petroleum refining
pharmaceuticals 
plastic pipe
polymer and chemical production
power
protective packaging
pulp and paper manufacturing
soaps and detergents
water treatment
The
Chlor-Alkali/Chlor-Vinyl
business focuses on the production of chlorine for consumption by Dow's downstream derivative businesses, as well as production, marketing and supply of ethylene dichloride, vinyl chloride monomer and caustic soda. These products are used for applications such as alumina production, pulp and paper manufacturing, soaps and detergents, and building and construction. Dow is the world's largest producer of both chlorine and caustic soda.
The
Energy
business supplies power, steam and other utilities, principally for use in Dow's global operations.
The
Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycol
business is the world's largest producer of purified ethylene oxide, principally used in Dow's downstream performance derivatives. Dow is also a key supplier of ethylene glycol to MEGlobal, a 50:50 joint venture and a world leader in the manufacture and marketing of merchant monoethylene glycol and diethylene glycol. Ethylene glycol is used in polyester fiber, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) for food and beverage container applications, polyester film, and aircraft and runway deicers.
133
Table of Contents
The
Hydrocarbons
business encompasses the procurement of natural gas liquids and crude oil-based raw materials, as well as the supply of monomers, principally for use in Dow's global operations. The business regularly sells its by-products and buys and sells products in order to balance regional production capabilities and derivative requirements. The business also sells products to certain Dow joint ventures. Dow is the world leader in the production of olefins and aromatics.
The Feedstocks and Energy segment also includes the results of Compaa Mega S.A., MEGlobal and a portion of the results of EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C., The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. and the SCG-Dow Group, all joint ventures of the Company.
Divestitures:
Corporate
includes the results of Ventures (which includes new business incubation platforms focused on identifying and pursuing new commercial opportunities); Venture Capital; non-business aligned technology licensing and catalyst activities; the Company's insurance operations and environmental operations; enterprise level mega project activities; and certain corporate overhead costs and cost recovery variances not allocated to the operating segments. In 2009, Corporate also included the results of the Salt business, which the Company acquired with the April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas and sold to K+S Aktiengesellschaft on October 1, 2009.
Total assets divested with the sale of Styron on June 17, 2010 are presented by operating segment in Note E.
Transfers of products between operating segments are generally valued at cost. However, transfers of products to Agricultural Sciences from other segments are generally valued at market-based prices; the revenues generated by these transfers are provided in the following table:
134
Table of Contents
135
Table of Contents
The Company operates
188
 manufacturing sites in
35
countries. The United States is home to
55
of these sites, representing
48 percent
of the Companys long-lived assets. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on customer location; long-lived assets are attributed to geographic areas based on asset location.
 
136
Table of Contents
The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries
Selected Quarterly Financial Data
 
 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
137
Table of Contents
The following trademarks or service marks of The Dow Chemical Company and certain affiliated companies of Dow appear in this report: ACRYSOL, ACUDYNE, ACULYN, ACUMER, ACuPLANE, ACRYLIGARD, ACUSOL, ADCOTE, ADSORBSIA, ADVALUBE, ADVAPAK, ADVASTAB, AERIFY, AFFINITY, AIRSTONE, AMBERCHROM, AMBERJET, AMBERLITE, AMBERLYST, AMPLIFY, ANGUS, AR, ASC METATIN, ASPUN, ATTANE, AQUA-LAM, AQUASET, AQUCAR, AUROLECTROLESS, AUTOMATE, AVANSE, BETAFOAM, BETAFORCE, BETAMATE, BETASEAL, BETATECH, BIOBAN, CARBITOL, CARBOWAX, CARBOWAX SENTRY, CELLOSIZE, CELLOSOLVE, CLEAR+STABLE, COMPAXX, CONTINUUM, COPPER GLEAM, CYCLOTENE, D.E.H., D.E.N., D.E.R., DIPRANE, DOW, DOWANOL, DOWEX, DOWFAX, DOWFROST, DOWLEX, DOWTHERM, DUOLITE, DURAGREEN, DURAMAX, DURAMOULD, DURAPLUS, DURAPOSIT, DURELAST, ECHELON, ECOSMOOTH, ECOSOFT, ECOSURF, ELASTENE, ENFORCER, ENGAGE, ENHANCER, ENLIGHT, ELITE, EPIC, ETHOCEL, EVOQUE, FILMTEC, FORTEGRA, FROTH-PAK, GLUTEX, GREAT STUFF, HYPERKOTE, HYPERLAST, HYPOL, IMPAXX, INFUSE, INSPIRE, INSTA-STIK, INTEGRAL, INTERVIA, ISONATE, KATHON, KLARIX, LITHOJET, METEOR, METHOCEL, MOR-FREE, NEOLONE, NORDEL, NYLOPAK, OPTICITE, OPTIDOSE, OPTIPORE, OPTOGRADE, OPULYN, OROTAN, PAPI, PARALOID, POLYOX, POWERHOUSE, PRIMACOR, PRIMAL, PRIMENE, PROCITE, PROGLYDE, PROLOGIC, PURAGUARD, REDI-LINK, RHOPLEX, ROBOND, ROMAX, ROPAQUE, SARAN, SARANEX, SATISFIT, SEALUTION, SERFENE, SHAC, SI-LINK, SILVADUR, SOFTCAT, SOLTERRA, SOLTEX, SPECFLEX, STYROFOAM, SUNSPHERES, SURECEL, SYMBIO, SYNALOX, TAMOL, TERGITOL, THERMAX, TILE BOND, TRAFFIDECK, TRENCHCOAT, TRITON, TRYCITE, TUFLIN, TYBRITE, TYMOR, TYRIN, UCAR, UCARE, UCARHIDE, UCON, UNIGARD, UNIPOL, UNIVAL, VENPURE, VERDISEAL, VERSENE, VERSIFY, VINYZENE, VISIONPAD, VORACOR, VORACTIV, VORAFORCE, VORALUX, VORAMER, VORANATE, VORANOL, VORASURF, VORATEC, VORATHERM, VORATRON, WALOCEL, WALSRODER, WEATHERMATE
The following trademarks or service marks of Dow AgroSciences LLC and certain affiliated companies of Dow AgroSciences LLC appear in this report: BRODBECK, CLINCHER, DAIRYLAND, DELEGATE, DITHANE, FORTRESS, GARLON, GLYPHOMAX, GRANITE, HERCULEX, KEYSTONE, LAREDO, LONTREL, LORSBAN, MILESTONE, MUSTANG, MYCOGEN, NATURALYTE, NEXERA, PHYTOGEN, PROFUME, RENZE, SENTRICON, SIMPLICITY, STARANE, TELONE, TORDON, TRACER, TRIUMPH, VIKANE, WIDESTRIKE
The following trademark of Agromen Sementes Agricolas Ltda appears in this report: AGROMEN
The following registered service mark of American Chemistry Council appears in this report: Responsible Care
The following trademark of Antaria Limited appears in this report: ZinClear
The following trademark of the Financial Accounting Standards Board appears in this report: FASB Accounting Standards Codification
The following trademark of Monsanto Technology LLC appears in this report: SmartStax. SmartStax multi-event technology developed by Dow AgroSciences and Monsanto
138








