FILE:DOW/DOW-8K-20120514132754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(a) Effective May 10, 2012, Barbara H. Franklin and Paul G. Stern retired from the Board of Directors ( "Board") of The Dow Chemical Company (the "Company") consistent with the retirement guidelines in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
(e) The Board previously approved, subject to stockholder approval, The Dow Chemical Company 2012 Stock Incentive Plan ("2012 Stock Incentive Plan"). According to the results from the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 10, 2012, the Company's stockholders approved the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan. A detailed summary of the material terms of the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan appears on pages 50-55 of the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 30, 2012 (the "Proxy Statement"). The foregoing description of the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto, and incorporated herein by reference.
(e) The Board previously approved, subject to stockholder approval, The Dow Chemical Company 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. According to the results from the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 10, 2012, the Company's stockholders approved the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. A detailed summary of the material terms of the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan appears on pages 56-57 of the Company's Proxy Statement. The foregoing description of the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company was held on May 10, 2012 for the purposes of (i) electing 10 directors to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders; (ii) ratifying the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public account firm for the 2012 fiscal year; (iii) holding an advisory vote on executive compensation; (iv) approving the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan; (v) approving the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and (vi) holding a vote on two stockholder proposals.
All of management's nominees for director as named in the Company's Proxy Statement were elected by the votes set forth in the table below.
Election of Directors.
 
The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2012 fiscal year was ratified by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The Company's executive compensation was approved, on an advisory basis, by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The 2012 Stock Incentive Plan was approved, by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan was approved, by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The stockholder proposal on shareholder action by written consent was defeated, by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The stockholder proposal on independent board chairman was defeated, by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 14, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
1. Purpose
The purpose of The Dow Chemical Company 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to advance the interests of The Dow Chemical Company (the "Company") by rewarding the efforts of employees and non-employee directors who are selected to be participants, by heightening the desire of such persons to continue working toward and contributing to the success and progress of the Company. The Plan supersedes the Company's 1988 Award and Option Plan and the Company's Amended and Restated 2003 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan with respect to future awards, and provides for the grant of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Units and Restricted Stock, any of which may be performance-based, and for Incentive Bonuses, which may be paid in cash or stock or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee.
2. Definitions
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
(a) "Affiliate" means any entity in which the Company has a substantial direct or indirect equity interest, as determined by the Committee.
(b) "Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor thereto.
(c) "Award" means an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Stock Unit, Restricted Stock or Incentive Bonus granted to a Participant pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, any of which may be subject to performance conditions in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan.
(d) "Award Agreement" means a written agreement or other instrument as may be approved from time to time by the Committee and designated as such implementing the grant of each Award. An Agreement may be in the form of an agreement to be executed by both the Participant and the Company (or an authorized representative of the Company) or certificates, notices or similar instruments as approved by the Committee and designated as such.
(e) "Board" means the board of directors of the Company.
(f) "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon the consummation of:
(i) a change in ownership of a corporation where one person, or more than one person acting as a group acquires ownership of stock of the corporation that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of such corporation (including without limitation the consummation of a transaction having such effect); or
(ii) a change in the effective control of the corporation under which either: (1) any one person, or more than one person acting as a group acquires (or has acquired during the 12 month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of the corporation possessing 30% or more of the total voting power of the stock of the corporation; or (2) a majority of members of the corporation's board of directors is replaced during any 12 month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the corporation's board of directors prior to the date of the appointment or election. This definition of "Change in Control" is intended to conform to the definition of a "change in ownership or effective control of a corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation" as defined under Section 409A of the Code and any subsequent authority issued pursuant thereto, and no corporate event shall be considered a Change in Control unless it meets such requirements.
(g) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the rulings and regulations issues thereunder.
(h) "Committee" means the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee of the Board (or any successor), or such other committee designated by the Board, designated to administer the Plan under Section 6.
(i) "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, par value $2.50 a share, or such other class or kind of shares or other securities as may be applicable under Section 15.
(j) "Company" means The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation, or any successor to substantially all its business.
(k) "Dividend Equivalents" mean an amount payable in cash or Common Stock, as determined by the Committee, with respect to a Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Award equal to what would have been received if the shares underlying the Award had been owned by the Participant.
(l) "Effective Date" means the date on which the Plan takes effect, as defined pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan.
(m) "Eligible Person" means an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, including an officer or director who is such an employee. An Eligible Person shall also include any person who is an employee under the instructions to Form S-8 and any non-employee director. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person who would otherwise be an Eligible Person shall not be an Eligible Person in any jurisdiction where such person's participation in the Plan would be unlawful.
(n) "Fair Market Value" means, as applied to a specific date, the closing market price of Common Stock, as reported on the consolidated transaction reporting system for New York Stock Exchange issues on such date or, if Common Stock was not traded on such date, on the next preceding day on which the Common Stock was traded. However, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, if such method of determining Fair Market Value shall not be consistent with the then current regulations of the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, Fair Market Value shall be determined in accordance with those regulations.
(o) "Incentive Bonus" means a bonus opportunity awarded under Section 11 pursuant to which a Participant may become entitled to receive an amount based on satisfaction of such performance criteria established for a performance period of not less than one year as are specified in the Award Agreement.
(p) "Incentive Stock Option" means a stock option that is designated as potentially eligible to qualify as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
(q) "Key Employee" means any employee of the Company who has a job level of 820 points or higher as of his Separation from Service.
(r) "Nonqualified Stock Option" means a stock option that is not intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
(s) "Option" means a right to purchase a number of shares of Common Stock at such exercise price, at such times and on such other terms and conditions as are specified in or determined pursuant to an Award Agreement. Options granted pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan may be Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options.
(t) "Participant" means any individual described in Section 3 to whom Awards have been granted from time to time by the Committee and any authorized transferee of such individual.
(u) "Plan" means The Dow Chemical Company 2012 Stock Incentive Plan as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.
(v) "Prior Plans" means the Company's 1988 Award and Option Plan and the Company's Amended and Restated 2003 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan.
(w) "Qualifying Performance Criteria" has the meaning set forth in Section 12(b).
(x) "Restricted Stock" means an award or issuance of Common Stock the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or transferability of which is subject during specified periods of time to such conditions (including continued employment or performance conditions) and terms as the Committee deems appropriate.
(y) "Stock Unit" means an Award denominated in units of Common Stock under which the issuance of shares of Common Stock (or cash payment in lieu thereof) is subject to such conditions (including continued employment or performance conditions) and terms as the Committee deems appropriate.
(z) "Separation from Service" or "Separates from Service" means a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
(aa) "Stock Appreciation Right" means a right granted pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan that entitles the Participant to receive, in cash or Common Stock or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee, value equal to the excess of (i) the market price of a specified number of shares of Common Stock at the time of exercise over (ii) the exercise price of the right, as established by the Committee on the date of grant.
(bb) "Subsidiary" means any business association (including a corporation or a partnership, other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of such associations beginning with the Company if each of the associations other than the last association in the unbroken chain owns equity interests (including stock or partnership interests) possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of equity interests in one of the other associations in such chain.
(cc) "Substitute Awards" means Awards granted or Common Stock issued by the Company in assumption of, or in substitution or exchange for, awards previously granted, or the right or obligation to make future awards, by a company acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary or with which the Company or any Subsidiary combines.
3. Eligibility
Any Eligible Person is eligible to receive an Award.
4. Effective Date and Termination of Plan
This Plan was adopted by the Board as of February 9, 2012, and it will become effective (the "Effective Date") when it is approved by the Company's shareholders. All Awards granted under this Plan are subject to, and may not be exercised before, the approval of this Plan by the shareholders prior to the first anniversary date of the date that the Board adopted the Plan; provided that if such approval by the shareholders of the Company is not forthcoming, all Awards previously granted under this Plan shall be void. The Plan shall remain available for the grant of Awards until the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Effective Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan may be terminated at such earlier time as the Board may determine. Termination of the Plan will not affect the rights and obligations of the Participants and the Company arising under Awards theretofore granted.
5. Shares Subject to the Plan and to Awards
(a) . The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan shall not exceed 44,500,000, plus any shares of Common Stock that were subject to outstanding awards under the Prior Plans as of the Effective Date (such awards the "Prior Plan Awards") that are subsequently canceled, expired, forfeited or otherwise not issued under a Prior Plan Award or settled in cash. Any shares of Common Stock issued under Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against the number of shares issuable under the Plan on a one-for-one basis and any shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to Awards other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against this limit as 2.1 shares of Common Stock for every one (1) share of Common Stock subject to such Award. Shares of Common Stock subject to Prior Plan Awards that, after the Effective Date, are canceled, expired, forfeited or otherwise not issued under the Prior Plan Award or settled in cash shall be added to the number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan as one (1) share of Common Stock if such shares were subject to options or stock appreciation rights granted under the Prior Plans, and as 2.1 shares of Common Stock if such shares were subject to awards other than options or stock appreciation rights granted under the Prior Plans. The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for grant under this Plan and the number of shares of Common Stock subject to Awards outstanding at the time of any event described in Section 15 shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 15. The shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to Awards granted under this Plan may be shares that are authorized and unissued or shares that were reacquired by the Company, including shares purchased in the open market.
Aggregate Limits
(b) . For purposes of Section 5(a), the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issued under this Plan at any time shall equal only the number of shares of Common Stock actually issued upon exercise or settlement of an Award, and shares of Common Stock subject to Awards that have been canceled, expired, forfeited or otherwise not issued under an Award and shares of Common Stock subject to Awards settled in cash shall not count as shares of Common Stock issued under this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following shares of Common Stock will not be added back (or with respect to Prior Plan Awards, will not be added) to the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance: (i) shares of Common Stock that were subject to a stock-settled Stock Appreciation Right (or a stock appreciation
Issuance of Shares
right granted under a Prior Plan) and were not issued upon the net settlement or net exercise of such Stock Appreciation Right (or stock appreciation right granted under a Prior Plan), (ii) shares of Common Stock delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay the exercise price of an Option (or an option granted under a Prior Plan), (iii) Shares of Common Stock delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay the withholding taxes related to an Option or Stock Appreciation Right (or an option or stock appreciation right granted under a Prior Plan), or (iv) Shares of Common Stock repurchased on the open market with cash proceeds from exercise of an Option (or option granted under a Prior Plan). Any shares of Common Stock that again become available for grant pursuant to this Section 5 shall be added back as one (1) share of Common Stock if such shares were subject to Options or Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan or options or stock appreciation rights granted under a Prior Plan, and as 2.1 shares of Common Stock if such shares were subject to Awards other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan or subject to awards other than options or stock appreciation rights granted under the Prior Plans. In addition, any shares issued by the Company through the assumption or substitution of outstanding grants from an acquired company shall not reduce the shares available for grants under the Plan.
(c) . The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock subject to Awards granted under this Plan during any calendar year to any one Participant shall not exceed 3,000,000, which number shall be calculated and adjusted pursuant to Section 15 only to the extent that such calculation or adjustment will not affect the status of any Award intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code but which number shall not count any tandem SARs (as defined in Section 9). The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options granted under this Plan shall not exceed 44,500,000, which number shall be calculated and adjusted pursuant to Section 15 only to the extent that such calculation or adjustment will not affect the status of any option intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option under Section 422 of the Code. The maximum cash amount payable pursuant to that portion of an Incentive Bonus granted in any calendar year to any Participant under this Plan that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall not exceed $15,000,000.
Tax Code Limits
(d) . Substitute Awards shall not reduce the shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan or authorized for grant to a Participant in any calendar year. Additionally, in the event that a company acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary, or with which the Company or any Subsidiary combines, has shares available under a pre-existing plan approved by shareholders and not adopted in contemplation of such acquisition or combination, the shares available for grant pursuant to the terms of such pre-existing plan (as adjusted, to the extent appropriate, using the exchange ratio or other adjustment or valuation ratio or formula used in such acquisition or combination to determine the consideration payable to the holders of common stock of the entities party to such acquisition or combination) may be used for Awards under the Plan and shall not reduce the shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan; provided that Awards using such available shares shall not be made after the date awards or grants could have been made under the terms of the pre-existing plan, absent the acquisition or combination, and shall only be made to individuals who were employees of such acquired or combined company before such acquisition or combination.
Substitute Awards
6. Administration of the Plan
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Any power of the Committee may also be exercised by the Board, except to the extent that the grant or exercise of such authority would cause any Award or transaction to become subject to (or lose an exemption under) the short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or cause an Award intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code not to qualify for such treatment. To the extent that any permitted action taken by the Board conflicts with action taken by the Committee, the Board action shall control. The Compensation and Leadership Development Committee of the Board (or any successor) may by resolution delegate any or all of its authority to a subcommittee composed of one or more directors (who need not be members of the Committee), and any such subcommittee shall be treated as the Committee for all purposes under this Plan, except to the extent that such subcommittee would fail to satisfy any applicable section or regulation under the Act or Code or any requirement of the exchange on which the Common Stock is traded. The Board or the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee of the Board (or any successor) may by resolution authorize one or more officers of the Company to grant Awards (other than Restricted Stock awards); provided, however, that the resolution so authorizing such officer or officers shall specify the total number of Awards (if any) such officer or officers may award pursuant to such delegated authority. No such officer shall designate himself or herself or any executive officer of the Company as a recipient of any Awards granted under authority delegated to such officer. The Committee hereby designates the Secretary of the Company and the head of the Company's human resource function to assist the Committee in
Administrator of the Plan
the administration of the Plan and execute agreements evidencing Awards made under this Plan or other documents entered into under this Plan on behalf of the Committee or the Company. In addition, the Committee may delegate any or all aspects of the day-to-day administration of the Plan to one or more officers or employees of the Company or any Subsidiary, and/or to one or more agents.
(b) . Subject to the express provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall be authorized and empowered to do all things that it determines to be necessary or appropriate in connection with the administration of this Plan, including, without limitation:
Powers of Committee
(i) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to this Plan and to define terms not otherwise defined herein;
(ii) to determine which persons are Eligible Persons, to which of such Eligible Persons, if any, Awards shall be granted hereunder and the timing of any such Awards;
(iii) to grant Awards and determine the terms and conditions thereof;
(iv) to establish and verify the extent of satisfaction of any performance goals or other conditions applicable to the grant, issuance, retention, vesting, exercisability or settlement of any Award;
(v) to prescribe and amend the terms of the Award Agreements and the terms of or form of any document or notice required to be delivered to the Company by Participants under this Plan;
(vi) to determine the extent to which adjustments are required pursuant to Section 15;
(vii) to interpret and construe this Plan, any rules and regulations under this Plan and the terms and conditions of any Award granted hereunder, and to make exceptions to any such provisions if the Committee, in good faith, determines that it is appropriate to do so;
(viii) to approve corrections in the documentation or administration of any Award; and
(ix) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of this Plan.
The Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, without amendment to the Plan, waive or amend the operation of Plan provisions respecting exercise after termination of employment or service to the Company or an Affiliate and, except as otherwise provided herein, adjust any of the terms of any Award.
(c) . All decisions, determinations and interpretations by the Committee regarding the Plan, any rules and regulations under the Plan and the terms and conditions of or operation of any Award granted hereunder, shall be final and binding on all Participants, beneficiaries, heirs, assigns or other persons holding or claiming rights under the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems relevant, in its sole and absolute discretion, to making such decisions, determinations and interpretations including, without limitation, the recommendations or advice of any officer or other employee of the Company and such attorneys, consultants and accountants as it may select. Members of the Board and members of the Committee acting under the Plan shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the advice of counsel and shall incur no liability except for gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of their duties.
Determinations by the Committee
(d) . In the case of a grant of an Award to any Participant employed by a Subsidiary, such grant may, if the Committee so directs, be implemented by the Company issuing any subject shares of Common Stock to the Subsidiary, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may determine, upon the condition or understanding that the Subsidiary will transfer the shares of Common Stock to the Participant in accordance with the terms of the Award specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, such Award may be issued by and in the name of the Subsidiary and shall be deemed granted on such date as the Committee shall determine.
Subsidiary Awards
7. Plan Awards
(a) . Awards may be granted at any time and from time to time prior to the termination of the Plan to Eligible Persons as determined by the Committee. The terms and conditions of each Award shall be set forth in an Award Agreement in a form approved by the Committee for such Award, which Award Agreement may contain such terms and conditions as specified from time to time by the Committee, provided such terms and conditions do not conflict with the Plan. The Award Agreement for any Award (other than Restricted Stock awards) shall include the time or times at or within which and the consideration for which any shares of Common Stock may be acquired from the Company. The terms of Awards may vary among Participants, and the Plan does not impose upon the Committee any requirement to make Awards subject to uniform terms. Accordingly, the terms of individual Award Documents may vary.
Terms Set Forth in Award Agreement
(b) . Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall specify at or after the time of grant of an Award the provisions governing the effect(s) upon an Award of a Participant's Separation from Service.
Separation from Service
(c) . A Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to shares of Common Stock covered by an Award (including voting rights) until the date the Participant becomes the holder of record of such shares of Common Stock. No adjustment shall be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to such date, except as provided in Section 10(b) or Section 15 of this Plan or as otherwise provided by the Committee.
Rights of a Stockholder
8. Options
(a) . The grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of any Option shall occur at such time and be subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee or under criteria established by the Committee, which may include conditions subject to continued employment, passage of time and/or performance conditions in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan. The term of an Option shall in no event be greater than ten years. The Committee will establish the price at which Common Stock may be purchased upon exercise of an Option, which, in no event will be less than the Fair Market Value of such shares on the date of grant; provided, however, that the exercise price per share of Common Stock with respect to an Option that is granted as a Substitute Award may be less than the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock on the date such Option is granted if such exercise price is based on a formula set forth in the terms of the options held by such optionees or in the terms of the agreement providing for such merger or other acquisition. The exercise price of any Option may be paid in cash or such other method as determined by the Committee, including an irrevocable commitment by a broker to pay over such amount from a sale of the Shares issuable under an Option, the delivery of previously owned shares of Common Stock or withholding of shares of Common Stock deliverable upon exercise.
Grant, Term and Price
(b) . Other than in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization (as described in Section 15), at any time when the purchase price of an Option is above the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock, the Company shall not, without stockholder approval, reduce the purchase price of such Option and shall not exchange such Option for a new Award with a lower (or no) purchase price or for cash.
No Repricing without Shareholder Approval
(c) . Options shall not be granted under the Plan in consideration for and shall not be conditioned upon the delivery of shares of Common Stock to the Company in payment of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligation under any other employee stock option.
No Reload Grants
(d) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 8, in the case of the grant of an Option intending to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option, if the Participant owns stock possessing more than 10 percent of the combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company (a "10% Shareholder"), the exercise price of such Option must be at least 110 percent of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant and the Option must expire within a period of not more than five (5) years from the date of grant. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8 to the contrary, options designated as Incentive Stock Options shall not be eligible for treatment under the Code as Incentive Stock Options (and will be deemed to be Nonqualified Stock Options) to the extent that either (a) the aggregate Fair Market Value of shares of Common Stock (determined as of the time of grant) with respect to which such Options are exercisable for the first time by the Participant during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and any Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, taking Options into account in the order in which they were granted, or (b) such Options otherwise remain exercisable but are not exercised within three (3) months (or such other period of time provided in Section 422 of the Code) of Separation of Service (as determined in accordance with Section 3401(c) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder).
Incentive Stock Options
(e) . Participants shall have no voting rights and will have no rights to receive dividends or Dividend Equivalents in respect of an Option or any shares of Common Stock subject to an Option until the Participant has become the holder of record of such shares.
No Shareholder Rights
9. Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) . The grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of any Stock Appreciation Right shall occur at such time and be subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee or under criteria established by the Committee, which may include conditions subject to continued employment, passage of time and/or performance conditions in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to Participants from time to time either in tandem with or as a component of Options granted under the Plan ("tandem SARs") or not in conjunction with other Awards ("freestanding SARs"). Upon exercise of a tandem SAR as to some or all of the shares covered by the grant, the related Option shall be canceled automatically to the extent of the number of shares covered by such exercise. Conversely, if the related Option is exercised as to some or all of the shares covered by the grant, the related tandem SAR, if any, shall be canceled automatically to the extent of the number of shares covered by the Option exercise. Any Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with an Option may be granted at the same time such Option is granted or at any time thereafter before exercise or expiration of such Option. All freestanding SARs shall be granted subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to Options as set forth in Section 8 and all tandem SARs shall have the same exercise price as the Option to which they relate. Subject to the provisions of Section 8 and the immediately preceding sentence, the Committee may impose such other conditions or restrictions on any Stock Appreciation Right as it shall deem appropriate. Stock Appreciation Rights may be settled in Common Stock, cash, Stock Units, Restricted Stock or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
General Terms
(b) . Other than in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization (as described in Section 15), at any time when the purchase price of a Stock Appreciation Right is above the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock, the Company shall not, without stockholder approval, reduce the purchase price of such Stock Appreciation Right and shall not exchange such Stock Appreciation Right for a new Award with a lower (or no) purchase price or for cash.
No Repricing without Shareholder Approval
(c) . Participants shall have no voting rights and will have no rights to receive dividends or Dividend Equivalents in respect of an Award of Stock Appreciation Rights or any shares of Common Stock subject to an Award of Stock Appreciation Rights until the Participant has become the holder of record of such shares.
No Shareholder Rights
10. Restricted Stock and Stock Unit Awards
(a) . The grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of any Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Award shall occur at such time and be subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee or under criteria established by the Committee, which may include conditions subject to continued employment, passage of time and/or performance conditions in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan. In addition, the Committee shall have the right to grant Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Awards as the form of payment for grants or rights earned or due under other shareholder-approved compensation plans or arrangements of the Company. The grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of any Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Award that is based on performance criteria and level of achievement versus such criteria will be subject to a performance period of not less than twelve months, and any Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Award the vesting and/or settlement of which is based solely upon continued employment and/or the passage of time may not vest or be settled in full prior to the thirty-sixth month following its date of grant, but may be subject to pro-rata vesting over such period, except that (i) the Committee may provide for the satisfaction and/or lapse of all conditions under any such Award in the event of the Participant's death, disability or retirement or to the extent provided in Section 15(c) in connection with a Change in Control, (ii) the Committee may provide that any such restriction or limitation will not apply in the case of a Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Award that is issued in payment or settlement of compensation that has been earned by the Participant. Notwithstanding the forgoing, up to 5% of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under this Plan (as described in Section 5(a)) may be issued pursuant to Restricted Stock and/or Stock Units without respect to the twelve-month or thirty-six-month restrictions described in this Section 10(a).
Vesting and Performance Criteria
(b) . Participants in whose name Restricted Stock is granted shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to those shares of Common Stock, unless determined otherwise by the Committee. The Committee will determine whether any such dividends or distributions will be automatically reinvested in additional shares of Restricted Stock and/or subject to the same restrictions on transferability as the Restricted Stock with respect to which they were distributed or whether such dividends or distributions will be paid in cash. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, during the period prior to shares being issued in the name of a Participant under any Stock Unit, the Company shall pay or accrue Dividend Equivalents on each date dividends on Common Stock are paid, subject to such conditions as the Committee may deem appropriate. The time and form of any such payment of Dividend Equivalents shall be specified in the Award Agreement. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event will dividends or Dividend Equivalents be paid during the performance period with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock or Stock Units that are subject to performance-based vesting criteria.
Dividends and Distributions
11. Incentive Bonuses
(a) . The Committee shall establish the performance criteria and level of achievement versus these criteria that shall determine the amount payable under an Incentive Bonus, which may include a target, threshold and/or maximum amount payable and any formula for determining such, and which criteria may be based on performance conditions in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan. The Committee may specify the percentage of the target Incentive Bonus that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the performance criteria for any portion of an Incentive Bonus that is intended by the Committee to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be a measure based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria (as defined in Section 12(b)) selected by the Committee and specified at the time the Incentive Bonus is granted.
Performance Criteria
(b) . The Committee shall determine the timing of payment of any Incentive Bonus. Payment of the amount due under an Incentive Bonus may be made in cash or in Common Stock, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may provide for or, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may specify, may permit a Participant to elect for the payment of any Incentive Bonus to be deferred to a specified date or event.
Timing and Form of Payment
(c) . Notwithstanding satisfaction of any performance goals and subject to Section 12(c) of this Plan, the amount paid under an Incentive Bonus on account of either financial performance or personal performance evaluations may be adjusted by the Committee on the basis of such further considerations as the Committee shall determine.
Discretionary Adjustments
12. Qualifying Performance-Based Compensation
(a) . The Committee may establish performance criteria and level of achievement versus such criteria that shall determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be granted, retained, vested, issued or issuable under or in settlement of or the amount payable pursuant to an Award, which criteria may be based on Qualifying Performance Criteria or other standards of financial performance and/or personal performance evaluations. In addition, the Committee may specify that an Award or a portion of an Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, provided that the performance criteria for such Award or portion of an Award that is intended by the Committee to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be a measure based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Committee and specified at the time the Award is granted.
General
(b) . For purposes of this Plan, the term "Qualifying Performance Criteria" shall mean any one or more of the following performance criteria, or derivations of such performance criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit or Subsidiary, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee: (i) cash flow (before or after dividends), (ii) earnings, (iii) earnings per share (including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), (iv) book value per share, (v) stock price, (vi) return on equity, (vii) total shareholder return, (viii) improvements on capital structure, (ix) working capital, (x) return on capital (including return on total capital or return on invested capital), (xi) return on assets or net assets, (xii) market capitalization, (xiii) economic value added, (xiv) sales growth, (xv) productivity improvement, (xvi) debt leverage (debt to capital), (xvii) revenue, (xviii) income or net income, (xix) operating income, (xx) operating profit or net operating profit, (xxi) maintenance or improvement of operating margin or profit margin, (xxii) return on operating revenue, (xxiii) cash from
Qualifying Performance Criteria
operations, (xxiv) operating ratio, (xxv) operating revenue, (xxvi) market share, (xxvii) product development or release schedules, (xxviii) new product innovation, (xxix) economic profit, (xxx) profitability of an identifiable business unit or product, (xxxi) product cost reduction through advanced technology, (xxxii) brand recognition/acceptance, (xxxiii) product ship targets, (xxxiv) cost reductions, (xxxv) customer service, (xxxvi) customer satisfaction or (xxxvii) the sales of assets or subsidiaries. To the extent consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee (A) shall appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Qualifying Performance Criteria to eliminate the effects of charges for restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items and all items of gain, loss or expense determined to be extraordinary or unusual in nature or related to the disposal of a segment of a business or related to a change in accounting principle all as determined in accordance with applicable accounting provisions, as well as the cumulative effect of accounting changes, in each case as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or identified in the Company's financial statements or notes to the financial statements, and (B) may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Qualifying Performance Criteria to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a performance period: (i) asset write-downs, (ii) litigation, claims, judgments or settlements, (iii) the effect of changes in tax law or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, (iv) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs and (v) accruals of any amounts for payment under this Plan or any other compensation arrangement maintained by the Company.
(c) . Subject to the limits imposed under Section 162(m) of the Code for Awards that are intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation," notwithstanding the satisfaction of any performance goals, the number of shares of Common Stock granted, issued, retainable and/or vested under or the amount paid under an Award may, to the extent specified in the Award Agreement, be reduced, but not increased, by the Committee on the basis of such further considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine.
Discretionary Adjustments and Limits
(d) . The Committee shall certify the extent to which any Qualifying Performance Criteria has been satisfied, and the amount payable as a result thereof, prior to payment, settlement or vesting of any Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Certification
13. Deferral of Gains
The Committee may, in an Award Agreement or otherwise, provide for the deferred delivery of Common Stock upon settlement, vesting or other events with respect to Restricted Stock or Stock Units, or in payment or satisfaction of an Incentive Bonus. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event will any deferral of the delivery of Common Stock or any other payment with respect to any Award be allowed if the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that the deferral would result in the imposition of the additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code. No Award shall provide for deferral of compensation that does not comply with Section 409A of the Code, unless the Board, at the time of grant, specifically provides that the Award is not intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code. The Company shall have no liability to a Participant, or any other party, if an Award that is intended to be exempt from, or compliant with, Section 409A of the Code is not so exempt or compliant or for any action taken by the Board.
14. Conditions and Restrictions Upon Securities Subject to Awards
The Committee may provide that the Common Stock issued upon exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right or otherwise subject to or issued under an Award shall be subject to such further agreements, restrictions, conditions or limitations as the Committee in its discretion may specify prior to the exercise of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right or the grant, vesting or settlement of such Award, including without limitation, conditions on vesting or transferability, forfeiture or repurchase provisions and method of payment for the Common Stock issued upon exercise, vesting or settlement of such Award (including the actual or constructive surrender of Common Stock already owned by the Participant) or payment of taxes arising in connection with an Award. Without limiting the foregoing, such restrictions may address the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any shares of Common Stock issued under an Award, including without limitation (i) restrictions under an insider trading policy or pursuant to applicable law, (ii) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and holders of other Company equity compensation arrangements, (iii) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers and (iv) provisions requiring Common Stock be sold on the open market or to the Company in order to satisfy tax withholding or other obligations.
15. Adjustment of and Changes in the Stock
(a) The number and kind of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan (including under any Awards then outstanding), and the number and kind of shares of Common Stock subject to the limits set forth in Section 5 of this Plan, shall be equitably adjusted by the Committee to reflect any reorganization, reclassification, combination of shares, stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off, dividend or distribution of securities, property or cash (other than regular, quarterly cash dividends), or any other event or transaction that affects the number or kind of shares of Common Stock outstanding. Such adjustment may be designed to comply with Section 424 of the Code or may be designed to treat the shares of Common Stock available under the Plan and subject to Awards as if they were all outstanding on the record date for such event or transaction or to increase the number of such shares of Common Stock to reflect a deemed reinvestment in shares of Common Stock of the amount distributed to the Company's securityholders. The terms of any outstanding Award shall also be equitably adjusted by the Committee as to price, number or kind of shares of Common Stock subject to such Award, vesting, and other terms to reflect the foregoing events, which adjustments need not be uniform as between different Awards or different types of Awards. No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued pursuant to such an adjustment. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 15 to the contrary, an adjustment to an Option or SAR under this Section 15 shall be made in a manner that will not result in the grant of a new Option or SAR under Section 409A of the Code.
(b) In the event there shall be any other change in the number or kind of outstanding shares of Common Stock, or any stock or other securities into which such Common Stock shall have been changed, or for which it shall have been exchanged, by reason of a Change in Control, other merger, consolidation or otherwise, then the Committee shall determine the appropriate and equitable adjustment to be effected. In addition, in the event of such change described in this paragraph, the Committee may accelerate the time or times at which any Award may be exercised and may provide for cancellation of such accelerated Awards that are not exercised within a time prescribed by the Committee in its sole discretion.
(c) Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Award Agreement or another contract, including an employment agreement, or under the terms of a transaction constituting a Change in Control, the following shall occur upon a Participant's involuntary termination of employment, provided that such termination does not result from the Participant's termination for cause or for serious misconduct within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control: (i) in the case of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant shall have the ability to exercise any portion of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right not previously exercisable, (ii) in the case of an award subject to performance conditions in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan, the Participant shall have the right to receive a payment based on performance through a date determined by the Committee prior to the Change in Control (unless such performance cannot be determined, in which case the Participant shall have the right to receive a payment equal to the target amount payable), and (iii) in the case of outstanding Restricted Stock and/or Stock Units, all conditions to the grant, issuance, retention, vesting or transferability of, or any other restrictions applicable to, such Award shall immediately lapse. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event of a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue outstanding Awards upon the Change in Control, immediately prior to the Change in Control, all Awards that are not assumed or continued shall be treated as follows effective immediately prior to the change in control: (A) in the case of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant shall have the ability to exercise such Option or Stock Appreciation Right, including any portion of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right not previously exercisable, (B) in the case of an award subject to performance conditions in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan, the Participant shall have the right to receive a payment based on performance through a date determined by the Committee prior to the Change in Control (unless such performance cannot be determined, in which case the Participant shall have the right to receive a payment equal to the target amount payable), and (C) in the case of outstanding Restricted Stock and/or Stock Units, all conditions to the grant, issuance, retention, vesting or transferability of, or any other restrictions applicable to, such Award shall immediately lapse.
(d) The Company shall notify Participants holding Awards subject to any adjustments pursuant to this Section 15 of such adjustment, but (whether or not notice is given) such adjustment shall be effective and binding for all purposes of the Plan.
16. Transferability
Each Award may not be sold, transferred for value, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and each Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable only by the Participant during his or her lifetime. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by the Committee, the person to whom an Award is initially granted (the "Grantee") may transfer an Award to any "family
member" of the Grantee (as such term is defined in Section 1(a)(5) of the General Instructions to Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Form S-8")), to trusts solely for the benefit of such family members and to partnerships in which such family members and/or trusts are the only partners; provided that, (i) as a condition thereof, the transferor and the transferee must execute a written agreement containing such terms as specified by the Committee, and (ii) the transfer is pursuant to a gift or a domestic relations order to the extent permitted under the General Instructions to Form S-8. Except to the extent specified otherwise in the agreement the Committee provides for the Grantee and transferee to execute, all vesting, exercisability and forfeiture provisions that are conditioned on the Grantee's continued employment or service shall continue to be determined with reference to the Grantee's employment or service (and not to the status of the transferee) after any transfer of an Award pursuant to this Section 16, and the responsibility to pay any taxes in connection with an Award shall remain with the Grantee notwithstanding any transfer other than by will or intestate succession.
17. Compliance with Laws and Regulations
This Plan, the grant, issuance, vesting, exercise and settlement of Awards thereunder, and the obligation of the Company to sell, issue or deliver shares of Common Stock under such Awards, shall be subject to all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, stock exchange rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental or regulatory agency as may be required. The Company shall not be required to register in a Participant's name or deliver Common Stock prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of such shares under any foreign, federal, state or local law or any ruling or regulation of any government body which the Committee shall determine to be necessary or advisable. To the extent the Company is unable to or the Committee deems it infeasible to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares of Common Stock hereunder, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall be relieved of any liability with respect to the failure to issue or sell such shares of Common Stock as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. No Option shall be exercisable and no Common Stock shall be issued and/or transferable under any other Award unless a registration statement with respect to the Common Stock underlying such Option is effective and current or the Company has determined that such registration is unnecessary.
In the event an Award is granted to or held by a Participant who is employed or providing services outside the United States, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, modify the provisions of the Plan or of such Award as they pertain to such individual to comply with applicable foreign law or to recognize differences in local law, currency or tax policy. The Committee may also impose conditions on the grant, issuance, exercise, vesting, settlement or retention of Awards in order to comply with such foreign law and/or to minimize the Company's obligations with respect to tax equalization for Participants employed outside their home country.
18. Withholding
To the extent required by applicable federal, state, local or foreign law, the Committee may and/or a Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any withholding tax obligations that arise with respect to any Award, or the issuance or sale of any shares of Common Stock. The Company shall not be required to recognize any Participant rights under an Award, to issue shares of Common Stock or to recognize the disposition of such shares of Common Stock until such obligations are satisfied. To the extent permitted or required by the Committee, these obligations may or shall be satisfied by the Company withholding cash from any compensation otherwise payable to or for the benefit of a Participant, the Company withholding a portion of the shares of Common Stock that otherwise would be issued to a Participant under such Award or any other award held by the Participant or by the Participant tendering to the Company cash or, if allowed by the Committee, shares of Common Stock.
19. Amendment of the Plan or Awards
The Board may amend, alter or discontinue this Plan and the Committee may amend, or alter any agreement or other document evidencing an Award made under this Plan but, except as provided pursuant to the provisions of Section 15, no such amendment shall, without the approval of the shareholders of the Company:
(a) increase the maximum number of shares of Common Stock for which Awards may be granted under this Plan;
(b) reduce the price at which Options may be granted below the price provided for in Section 8(a);
(c) reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options;
(d) extend the term of this Plan;
(e) change the class of persons eligible to be Participants;
(f) increase the individual maximum limits in Section 5(c); or
(g) otherwise amend the Plan in any manner requiring shareholder approval by law or the rules of any stock exchange or market or quotation system on which the Common Stock is traded, listed or quoted.
No amendment or alteration to the Plan or an Award or Award Agreement shall be made which would impair the rights of the holder of an Award, without such holder's consent, provided that no such consent shall be required if the Committee determines in its sole discretion and prior to the date of any Change in Control that such amendment or alteration either is required or advisable in order for the Company, the Plan or the Award to satisfy any law or regulation or to meet the requirements of or avoid adverse financial accounting consequences under any accounting standard.
20. No Liability of Company
The Company and any Subsidiary or Affiliate which is in existence or hereafter comes into existence shall not be liable to a Participant or any other person as to: (i) the non-issuance or sale of shares of Common Stock as to which the Company has been unable to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares of Common Stock hereunder; and (ii) any tax consequence expected, but not realized, by any Participant or other person due to the receipt, exercise or settlement of any Award granted hereunder.
21. Non-Exclusivity of Plan
Neither the adoption of this Plan by the Board nor the submission of this Plan to the shareholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or the Committee to adopt such other incentive arrangements as either may deem desirable, including without limitation, the granting of restricted stock or stock options otherwise than under this Plan or an arrangement not intended to qualify under Code Section 162(m), and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
22. Governing Law
This Plan and any agreements or other documents hereunder shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware and applicable federal law. Any reference in this Plan or in the agreement or other document evidencing any Awards to a provision of law or to a rule or regulation shall be deemed to include any successor law, rule or regulation of similar effect or applicability.
The Plan, the grant, issuance, retention, vesting, exercisability or settlement of Awards hereunder, and the obligation of the Company to sell, issue or deliver shares of Common Stock under such Awards, shall be subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals by any governmental or regulatory agency as may be required. The Company shall not be required to register in a Participant's name or deliver any Shares prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of any requirement with respect to such shares under any federal, state or local law or any ruling or regulation of any government body which the Committee shall determine to be necessary or advisable. To the extent the Company is unable to or the Committee deems it infeasible to obtain in a timely or efficient manner authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Committee to be necessary or advisable for the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder, the Company shall be relieved of any liability with respect to the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
23. No Right to Employment, Reelection or Continued Service
Nothing in this Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its Subsidiaries and/or its Affiliates to terminate any Participant's employment, service on the Board or service for the Company at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law, nor shall this Plan or an Award itself confer upon any Participant any
right to continue his or her employment or service for any specified period of time. Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company, any Subsidiary and/or its Affiliates. Subject to Sections 4 and 19, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Board without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Subsidiaries and/or its Affiliates.
24. Forfeiture
Awards may be forfeited if the Participant terminates his or her employment with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate for any reason other than death, disability, retirement or a special separation situation as defined in the Terms and Conditions. Awards may furthermore be forfeited by a Participant if the Committee determines that the Participant has at any time engaged in any activity harmful to the interest of or in competition with the Company, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or accepts employment with a competitor.
25. Key Employee Delay
To the extent any payment under this Plan is considered deferred compensation subject to the restrictions contained in Section 409A of the Code, such payment may not be made to a Key Employee upon Separation from Service before the date that is six months after the Key Employee's Separation form Service (or, if earlier, the Key Employee's death). Any payment that would otherwise be made during this period of delay shall be accumulated and paid on the first day of the seventh month following the Key Employee's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the first day of the month after the Key Employee's death).
26. Unfunded Plan
The Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan. Participants are and shall at all times be general creditors of the Company with respect to their Awards. If the Committee or the Company chooses to set aside funds in a trust or otherwise for the payment of Awards under the Plan, such funds shall at all times be subject to the claims of the creditors of the Company in the event of its bankruptcy or insolvency.

Exhibit 10.2
1. Purpose.
The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the Company and its Designated Subsidiaries with an opportunity to purchase Common Stock of the Company through accumulated payroll deductions or direct payments during specified time periods. The Plan supersedes the Company's 2003-2013 Employees' Stock Purchase Plan. No additional offerings shall commence under the 2003-2013 Employees' Stock Purchase Plan after the date this Plan becomes effective; provided, however, that any offering that remains open at the time this Plan becomes effective shall remain open and be completed in accordance with the terms of the 2003-2013 Employees' Stock Purchase Plan . The Plan is not intended to qualify as an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Code.
2. Definitions.
(a) "Base Salary" means, as of the Eligibility Date with respect to an Offering, regular base pay or wages payable to a Participant during the Offering and shall not include any overtime pay, shift premium, sales incentives and commissions, cash awards, performance pay, allowances, or compensation resulting from participation in this or any other similar employee stock purchase plan or other equity-based compensation plan; provided, however, that for employees paid on an hourly basis, "Base Salary" shall take into account such employee's wage rate and regular work schedule as of the Eligibility Date with respect to the Offering.
 
 
(d) "Committee" means the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee of the Board (or any successor), or such other committee designated by the Board, designated to oversee administration of the Plan.
(e) "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, par value $2.50 a share , or such other class or kind of shares or other securities as may be applicable under Section 17.
(f) "Company" means The Dow Chemical Company, a Delaware corporation, or any successor to substantially all of its business.
(g) "Designated Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary which has been designated by the Committee from time to time as eligible to participate in the Plan.
(h) "Eligibility Date" means the date designated by the Plan Administrator with respect to an Offering on which an Eligible Employee must be employed by the Company or a Designated Subsidiary to be eligible to participate in such Offering.
 
(j) "Employee" means any individual who is employed by the Company or any Designated Subsidiary to perform services in an employer-employee relationship and is classified as an employee by the Company or such Designated Subsidiary. Any individual who is not classified by the Company or a Designated Subsidiary as an employee shall not be considered an Employee for purposes of this Plan even if such individual is later determined (by a court or regulatory agency) to be an "employee" of the Company or a Designated Subsidiary for tax or other purposes.
(k) "Exercise Date" means the last day of each Offering and/or such other dates during an Offering on which a lump-sum payment and/or prepayment is received from a Participant and processed according to procedures as designated by the Plan Administrator.
(l) "Fair Market Value" means, as applied to a specific date, the closing market price of Common Stock, as reported on the consolidated transaction reporting system for New York Stock Exchange issues on such date or, if Common Stock was not traded on such date, on the following day on which the Common Stock was traded.
(m) "Final Payment Date" means the date designated by the Plan Administrator with respect to an Offering as the last day on which an Eligible Employee may withdraw from participation in the Offering and/or make a lump-sum payment with respect to the Offering.
(n) "Offering" means an offering that may be made under the Plan to Eligible Employees to purchase shares of Common Stock. The length, Offering Price and other material terms may differ for each Offering to the extent consistent with the terms of the Plan.
(o) "Offering Price" means with respect to an Offering an amount equal to the lower of (i) at least eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on a date or the average Fair Market Value of the Common Stock over a period, in each case, specified by the Plan Administrator and (ii) other than with respect to Participants who elect to fund purchases in an Offering through a lump sum or prepayment payment prior to the Final Payment Date (for who the Offering Price will be determined under clause (i) of this Section 2(o)), the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Final Payment Date for an Offering; provided, however, that the Offering Price may be adjusted pursuant to Section 17.
 
 
(r) "Plan Administrator" means the Committee and/or an officer or group of officers of the Company designated by the Committee as Plan Administrator pursuant to Section 14.
(s) "Prepayment Start Date" means the date designated by the Plan Administrator with respect to an Offering as the first day on which a Participant may make a lump-sum payment with respect to an Offering as described in Section 6.
(t) "Subsidiary" means any business association (including a corporation or a partnership, other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of such associations beginning with the Company if each of the associations other than the last association in the unbroken chain owns equity interests (including stock or partnership interests) possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of equity interests in one of the other associations in such chain.
 
3. Eligibility.
Any Employee who is employed by the Company or a Designated Subsidiary and classified as a full-time, part-time or less-than-full-time employee on a given Eligibility Date shall be eligible to participate in the Offering to which such Eligibility Date relates. An Employee classified by the Company or a Designated Subsidiary as a less-than-full-time employee, or part-time employee on an Eligibility Date shall be eligible to participate in the related Offering only if such Employee has a work schedule as of the Eligibility Date of 50% or more of the standard hours defined as full-time in such Employee's work location. Individuals who are classified as a temporary, co-op, intern or student status with the Company or Designated Subsidiary shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Employees who, as of the Eligibility Date, beneficially own more than 5% of the Company's outstanding Common Stock shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan.
4. Offering.
The Plan shall be implemented by a series of consecutive Offerings with the first Offering commencing in 2013, on such date designated by the Plan Administrator, and continuing thereafter until terminated in accordance with Section 18 hereof. The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to change the duration of future Offerings (including the commencement dates thereof) without stockholder approval so long as such change is announced prior to the scheduled beginning of the first Offering to be affected thereby.
5. Participation.
(a) An Eligible Employee may become a Participant in the Plan for an Offering by completing required documents ("Enrollment Documents") and submitting them to the Company or third party plan administrator designated by the Company during an enrollment period established by the Plan Administrator prior to the beginning of the Offering. The Enrollment Documents and their submission may be in electronic form.
(b) The Enrollment Documents will set forth (i) the number of shares of Common Stock the Eligible Employee desires to purchase in an Offering or (ii) the percentage of the Eligible Employee's Base Salary to be used to purchase shares of Common Stock in the Offering or (iii) an amount of an Eligible Employee's Base Salary to be used to purchase shares of Common Stock in the Offering; provided, however, that, in any case, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that an Eligible Employee may purchase in any Offering is the number of shares of Common Stock having an aggregate purchase price (taken together and based upon the per share Offering Price) equal to a designated percentage of such Eligible Employee's Base Salary for the Offering (the "Applicable Percentage") with the Applicable Percentage for each Offering determined by the Plan Administrator; provided, however, in no case shall the percentage exceed ten percent (10%) of such Eligible Employee's Base Salary.
(c) The minimum number of shares that may be subscribed for in an Offering is five (5) shares of Common Stock.
(d) A Participant may discontinue his or her participation in the Plan for an Offering prior to the Final Payment Date thereof as provided in Section 10, or may decrease (but not increase) the rate of his or her payroll deductions and/or number of shares to be purchased in an Offering (but not below five (5) shares of Common Stock) by completing or filing new Enrollment Documents authorizing the change in the manner designated by the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, limit the number of participation rate changes during any Offering. Any change in the rate of payroll deductions shall be effective with the first full payroll period following the administrative deadline established by the Plan Administrator.
6. Payment Method.
(a) A Participant's Enrollment Documents shall include an irrevocable election by the Participant to either contribute directly (in a lump-sum payment on or prior to the Final Payment Date) the aggregate Offering Price for the shares he or she elects to purchase in the Offering or have payroll deductions made on each pay day during the Offering in an amount not exceeding the Applicable Percentage for the Offering which he or she receives on each pay day during the Offering to fund such aggregate Offering Price.
(b) Participants electing lump-sum payment shall remit payment in a single lump sum to the Company for the entire subscription amount at any time after the Prepayment Start Date and on or before the Final Payment Date. In addition, Participants electing payroll deductions shall be permitted to make a lump-sum payment equal to some or all of such Participant's unpaid subscription at any time after the Prepayment Start Date and on or before the Final Payment Date. If a Participant (whether or not such Participant initially elected a lump-sum payment) remits such payment prior to the Final Payment Date, the Offering Price for such Participant will be fixed for such Offering based on the Offering Price then in effect (meaning that the purchase is final and the Participant's Offering Price will not be reduced, if applicable, as a result of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Final Payment Date). Unless the Plan Administrator determines otherwise, if a Participant (whether or not such Participant initially elected a lump-sum payment or payroll deduction) makes a partial payment to the Company of the amount subscribed on or prior to the Final Payment Date, the Participant shall be deemed to have reduced his or her subscription to a lesser number of shares of Common Stock based on such partial payment, provided, that no reduced subscription shall be for less than five (5) shares. In the event an elected lump-sum payment is not received by the Company prior to the close of business on the Final Payment Date, the Participant shall be deemed to have withdrawn from participation in the Offering.
(c) Participants shall pay for their subscriptions in the currency in which they are paid based on a conversion rate established by the Plan Administrator.
7. Grant of Option.
On the first day of each Offering, each Eligible Employee participating in such Offering shall be granted an option to purchase on the Exercise Date of such Offering (at the applicable Offering Price) up to a number of shares of the Company's Common Stock either designated in the Eligible Employee's Enrollment Documents or determined by dividing such Eligible Employee's payroll deductions accumulated and/or other contributions on or prior to such Exercise Date by the applicable Offering Price, subject to the maximum number of shares that may be purchased as set forth in Section 5(b) and the limitations set forth in Section 13(a). Exercise of the option shall occur as provided in Section 8, unless the Participant has withdrawn from participation in the Offering. The option shall expire on the last day of the Offering.
8. Exercise of Option.
(a) Unless a Participant withdraws from participation in an Offering, his or her option for the purchase of shares hereunder shall be automatically exercised on the applicable Exercise Date, which shall be either (i) as and when any lump-sum payment and/or prepayment is received from the Participant in accordance with Section 6 and processed according to procedures as designated by the Plan Administrator or (ii) the last day of the Offering, and the appropriate number of shares shall be purchased for such Participant at the applicable Offering Price with the lump-sum contribution and/or accumulated payroll deductions. If not all of a Participant's accumulated payroll deductions or lump-sum contributions are applied to the purchase of shares on the Exercise Date, then the Company shall return the excess amounts (without interest) to the Participant.
(b) The Participant must make adequate provision for federal, state, or other tax withholding obligations, if any, which arise in connection with the exercise of the option to purchase shares of Common Stock hereunder. By electing to participate in the Plan, a Participant authorizes the Company to withhold from the Participant's compensation and/or the shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable to the Participant under the Plan, the amounts necessary to satisfy any such applicable tax withholding obligations. At any time, the Company may, but shall not be obligated to, withhold from the Participant's compensation and/or, in the Plan Administrator's sole discretion, the shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable to the Participant under the Plan, the amount necessary for the Company to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations.
9. Delivery.
As promptly as practicable after each Exercise Date on which a purchase of shares occurs, the Company shall arrange the delivery to each Participant, as appropriate, of the shares purchased upon exercise of his or her option hereunder.
10. Withdrawal.
(a) A Participant may withdraw from participation in an Offering at any time on or before the Final Payment Date for the Offering by giving notice to the Company in the manner designated by the Plan Administrator. Promptly following a Participant's withdrawal from participation in an Offering, the Company shall return all of the Participant's accumulated payroll deductions (without interest) to the Participant.
(b) A Participant's withdrawal from participation in an Offering shall not have any effect upon his or her eligibility to participate in succeeding Offerings which commence after the termination of the Offering from which the Participant withdraws.
11. Termination of Employment.
Unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator, upon a Participant's ceasing to be an Eligible Employee for any reason during an Offering such Participant shall: (i) if such Participant elected payment by lump-sum payment for such Offering, be deemed to have withdrawn from participation in the Offering or (ii) if such Participant elected payment by payroll deductions for such Offering, be deemed to have elected to cause the Company to process the Participant's accumulated payroll deductions up to the time of the cessation as if such amounts had been paid as a prepayment pursuant to Section 6 on the date of such cessation (based on the Offering Price then in effect). No additional payroll deductions or other amounts shall be accumulated following the date the Participant ceases to be an Eligible Employee.
12. Interest.
No interest shall accrue on the payroll deductions of or lump sum payments made by a Participant in the Plan.
13. Stock.
(a) Subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the Company as provided in Section 17 hereof, the maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock which shall be made available for purchase under the Plan shall be 35,000,000 shares. If, on a given Exercise Date, the number of shares with respect to which options are to be exercised exceeds the number of shares then available under the Plan, the Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares remaining available for purchase in as uniform a manner as shall be practicable and as it shall determine to be equitable.
(b) The Participant shall have no interest or voting right in shares covered by his option until such option has been exercised and shares have been issued to the Participant.
14. Administration.
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Any power of the Committee may also be exercised by the Board, except to the extent that the grant or exercise of such authority would cause any Award or transaction to become subject to (or lose an exemption under) the short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. To the extent that any permitted action taken by the Board conflicts with action taken by the Committee, the Board action shall control. The Board and/or the Committee may delegate all matters relating to the administration of the Plan and any Offering under the Plan to one or more of the Company's officers as the Board and/or Committee so determines. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority to interpret and construe any and all provisions of the Plan, to adopt rules for administering the Plan, to develop and approve all documents necessary for carrying out the Plan, to establish the start and end dates for each Offering, to establish the method for determining the Offering Price for each Offering, and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan.
15. Transferability.
Neither accumulated payroll deductions nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or to receive shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution) by the Participant. Any such attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall be without effect, except that the Company may treat such act as an election to withdraw from participation in the applicable Offering. During a Participant's lifetime, a Participant's option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her.
16. Use of Funds.
All payroll deductions and lump sum payments received or held by the Company under the Plan may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions and lump sum payments.
17. Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Liquidation, Merger or Asset Sale.
(a) The number of shares available for issuance under the Plan, the maximum number of shares each Participant may purchase per Offering, as well as the Offering Price and the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised shall be equitably adjusted by the Committee to reflect any reorganization, reclassification, combination of shares, stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off, dividend or distribution of securities, property or cash (other than regular, quarterly cash dividends), or any other event or transaction that affects the number or kind of shares of Common Stock outstanding. Such adjustment shall be made by the Committee, whose determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. The Committee shall have the authority to adjust not only the number of securities, but also the class and kind of securities subject to the Plan and to make appropriate adjustments in the price of such securities if other than shares of Common Stock of the Company, so long as any such action complies with applicable law.
(b) In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Offering then in progress shall be shortened by setting a new Exercise Date (the "New Exercise Date"), and shall terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed dissolution or liquidation, unless provided otherwise by the Committee. The New Exercise Date shall be before the date of the Company's proposed dissolution or liquidation. The Plan Administrator shall notify each Participant, at least ten (10) business days prior to the New Exercise Date, that the Exercise Date for the Participant's option has been changed to the New Exercise Date and that the Participant's option shall be exercised automatically on the New Exercise Date, unless prior to such date the Participant has withdrawn from the Offering as provided in Section 10.
(c) In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the merger, consolidation or similar transaction involving the Company with or into another corporation in which the Company is not the surviving, controlling corporation, each outstanding option shall be assumed or an equivalent option substituted by the successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of the successor corporation. In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the option, the Offering then in progress shall be shortened by setting a New Exercise Date. The
New Exercise Date shall be before the date of the transaction described in this Section 17(c) is consummated. The Plan Administrator shall notify each Participant, at least ten (10) business days prior to the New Exercise Date, that the Exercise Date for the Participant's option has been changed to the New Exercise Date and that the Participant's option shall be exercised automatically on the New Exercise Date, unless prior to such date the Participant has withdrawn from the Offering as provided in Section 10.
(d) The existence of the Plan and any options granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right and power of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in its capital structure or business structure, any merger or consolidation, any issuance of debt, preferred or prior preference stock ahead of or affecting the shares of Common Stock, additional shares of capital stock or other securities or subscription rights thereto, any dissolution or liquidation, any sale or transfer of all or part of its assets or business or any other corporate act or proceeding.
18. Amendment or Termination.
(a) The Committee may at any time and for any reason suspend, terminate or amend the Plan. The Committee may terminate an Offering prior to any Exercise Date if the Committee determines that the termination of the Offering or the Plan is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. Except as provided in Section 17 and this Section 18, no amendment may make any change in any option theretofore granted which materially and adversely affects the rights of any Participant. To the extent necessary to comply with the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or other applicable laws or regulations, the Company shall obtain shareholder approval in such a manner and to such a degree as required.
(b) Without stockholder consent and without regard to whether any Participant rights may be considered to have been "adversely affected," the Committee shall be entitled to add or delete Designated Subsidiaries to be eligible to participate in the Plan, change the Offerings, limit the frequency and/or number of changes in the amount withheld during an Offering, establish the exchange ratio applicable to amounts withheld in a currency other than U.S. dollars, permit payroll withholding in excess of the amount designated by a Participant in order to adjust for delays or mistakes in the Company's processing of properly completed withholding elections, establish reasonable waiting and adjustment periods and/or accounting and crediting procedures to ensure that amounts applied toward the purchase of Common Stock for each Participant properly correspond with amounts withheld from the Participant's Base Salary, and establish such other limitations or procedures as the Committee determines in its sole discretion advisable which are consistent with the Plan.
19. Notices.
All notices or other communications by a Participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.
20. Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.
Shares shall not be issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
21. Term of Plan.
This Plan was adopted by the Board as of February 9, 2012, and it will become effective (the "Effective Date") when it is approved by the Company's shareholders. The Plan shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless sooner terminated by the Board or its delegate.
22. Governing Law.
This Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
23. No Enlargement of Employee Rights.
Nothing contained in this Plan shall be deemed to give any Employee the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Designated Subsidiary, or to interfere with the right of the Company or Designated Subsidiary to discharge any Employee at any time.
24. Rules for Foreign Jurisdictions.
The Committee may adopt rules or procedures relating to the operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific requirements of local laws and procedures. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee is specifically authorized to adopt rules and procedures regarding handling of payroll deductions, payment of interest, conversion of local currency, payroll tax, withholding procedures and handling of stock certificates which vary with local requirements. The Committee may also adopt sub-plans applicable to particular Designated Subsidiaries or locations. The rules of such sub-plans may take precedence over other provisions of this Plan, with the exception of Section 13, but unless otherwise superseded by the terms of such sub-plan, the provisions of this Plan shall govern the operation of such sub-plan.


