ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We use the terms Accenture, we, the Company, our and us in this report to refer to Accenture plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries or, prior to September 1, 2009, to Accenture Ltd, a Bermuda exempted company that, on that date, became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc, and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to fiscal 2010 means the 12 month period that ended on August 31, 2010. All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year. We use the term in local currency so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of business performance. Financial results in local currency are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year periods foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. Overview Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions, credit market conditions and levels of business confidence. Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts and to deliver solutions and services that add value relevant to our clients current needs and challenges. The level of revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market leading service offerings and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis. Revenues before reimbursements (net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were $5.42 billion, compared with $5.15 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, an increase of 5% in U.S. dollars and 8% in local currency. Although some industries and geographies where we operate continue to be impacted by the economic downturn that began to adversely affect our business in January 2009, overall market demand for our services has improved in recent quarters. Based on new contract bookings recorded in fiscal 2010, we expect growth to continue in most areas of our business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, four of our five operating groups, including Products, Financial Services, Resources and Communications & High Tech, experienced quarterly year over year revenue growth in local currency. Looking forward, we anticipate that the level of growth will vary across segments and geographic regions and between consulting and outsourcing services. In addition, given there is still economic uncertainty in some markets around the world, our ability to effectively respond to changing client demand patterns will be a key driver of our performance. Net revenues for fiscal 2010 were $21.55 billion, compared with $21.58 billion in fiscal 2009, flat in U.S. dollars and a decrease of 2% in local currency. During fiscal 2010, many of the industries and geographies where we operate continued to be impacted by the economic downturn. This adversely affected our year over year consulting and outsourcing revenue growth, primarily in the first half of fiscal 2010. In our consulting business, net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were $3.09 billion, compared with $2.91 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, an increase of 6% in U.S. dollars and 9% in local currency. Consulting net revenues for fiscal 2010 were $12.37 billion, compared with $12.56 44 Table of Contents billion for fiscal 2009, a decrease of 1% in U.S. dollars and 4% in local currency. Although fiscal 2010 consulting revenues reflect the impact of the economic downturn, overall market demand for our consulting services improved during the second half of fiscal 2010. Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and to a greater degree in the fourth quarter, we experienced quarterly year over year consulting revenue growth in local currency. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, consulting growth in four of our five operating groups, led by Products and Financial Services, was offset by a decline in Health & Public Service, primarily due to our public service business. We are providing a greater proportion of systems integration consulting through use of lower cost resources in our Global Delivery Network. This trend is resulting in work volume growing faster than revenues, and we expect this to continue in the medium term. Clients continue to focus on initiatives designed to deliver near and medium term cost savings and performance improvement. Projects with growth and transformational objectives are returning; however, clients remain cautious, seeking flexibility by using a phased approach to contracting work. In addition, the pricing environment continues to be competitive. In our outsourcing business, net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were $2.33 billion, compared with $2.23 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, an increase of 4% in U.S. dollars and 7% in local currency. Outsourcing net revenues for fiscal 2010 were $9.18 billion, compared with $9.02 billion for fiscal 2009, an increase of 2% in U.S. dollars and flat in local currency. Overall market demand for our outsourcing services improved during the second half of fiscal 2010, and we are beginning to experience higher volumes and scope expansions on existing contracts. Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and to a greater degree in the fourth quarter, we experienced quarterly year over year outsourcing revenue growth in local currency, with significant growth in Products. However, our outsourcing revenue growth during fiscal 2010 continued to be adversely impacted in three operating groups, primarily in Financial Services and to a lesser extent in Communications & High Tech and Resources, by the higher volume of contract terminations and restructurings that began to affect our business after the first quarter of fiscal 2009. We do not expect the fiscal 2009 contract terminations and restructurings to have a material year over year impact to outsourcing revenue growth in future periods. In addition, we are providing a greater proportion of outsourcing services through use of lower cost resources at reduced price levels. As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues and revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be higher. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues and revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be lower. When compared to fiscal 2009, the U.S. dollar weakened against many currencies in fiscal 2010. This resulted in favorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue results that were approximately 2% better than our results in local currency for fiscal 2010. The primary categories of operating expenses include cost of services, sales and marketing and general and administrative costs. Cost of services is primarily driven by the cost of client service personnel, which consists mainly of compensation, sub contractor and other personnel costs, and non payroll outsourcing costs. Cost of services as a percentage of revenues is driven by the prices we obtain for our solutions and services, the utilization of our client service personnel and the level of non payroll costs associated with new outsourcing contracts. Utilization represents the percentage of our consulting professionals time spent on billable work. Utilization for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was approximately 86%, flat with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, a decrease from 88% for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and more in line with our target range. This level of utilization reflects continued demand for resources in our Global Delivery Network as well as an increase in demand in certain countries, including the United States. We are actively hiring to meet current and projected future demand. Our cost management strategies include anticipating changes in demand for our services and executing cost management initiatives. We aggressively plan and manage our payroll costs and take 45 Table of Contents actions as needed to address changes in the anticipated demand for our services, given that payroll costs are the most significant portion of our operating expenses. These cost management strategies also include executing an increasing amount of our client delivery from our Global Delivery Network in lower cost locations. Based on current and projected future demand, we increased our headcount, the majority of which serve our clients, to approximately 204,000 as of August 31, 2010, compared with approximately 177,000 as of August 31, 2009. Annualized attrition, excluding involuntary terminations, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was 17%, flat with the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and more in line with historical levels prior to the economic downturn. This compares with 10% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. We adjust levels of new hiring, evaluate voluntary attrition and use involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand. In addition, we also adjust compensation in certain skill sets and geographies in order to attract and retain appropriate numbers of qualified employees, and we may need to continue to adjust compensation in the future. Compensation increases for fiscal 2011, which for the majority of our personnel were effective September 1, 2010, are higher than in the prior fiscal year. As in prior fiscal years, we expect to adjust pricing and or the mix of resources to reduce the impact of this on our gross margin. Our ability to grow our revenues and increase our margins could be adversely affected if we are unable to hire sufficient employees with the skills and background where they are needed, manage attrition, recover increases in compensation and or effectively assimilate and utilize new employees. Gross margin (Net revenues less Cost of services before reimbursable expenses as a percentage of Net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was 34.0%, compared with 32.3% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Gross margin for fiscal 2010 was 33.6%, compared with 31.7% for fiscal 2009. As discussed more fully below, the primary driver for the increase in gross margin for fiscal 2010 was a change related to the implementation of our sales effectiveness model, which directed a higher percentage of resource capacity to selling and other business development activities and streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on business development activities. Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were 20.9% for the fourth quarter fiscal 2010, compared with 19.1% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were 20.1% for fiscal 2010, compared with 18.3% for fiscal 2009. Sales and marketing is driven primarily by compensation costs for business development activities, investment in service offerings, and marketing and advertising related activities. General and administrative costs primarily include costs for non client facing personnel, information systems and office space. We continuously monitor these costs and implement cost management actions, as appropriate, to maintain or lower these costs as a percentage of revenues. These actions include performing a greater proportion of these activities in lower cost locations. During fiscal 2010, we directed a higher percentage of resource capacity to selling and other business development activities and we streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on business development activities. The combination of these two factors has resulted in a greater amount of payroll costs for our client services personnel being directed to sales and marketing rather than to other activities, which are typically captured in cost of services. We have not reclassified fiscal 2009 amounts to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation, as it would be impractical to do so. The increase in sales and marketing in fiscal 2010 was partially offset by a decrease in general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues, primarily due to expense savings resulting from the global consolidation of office space in fiscal 2009. In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, general and administrative costs included a bad debt provision of $72 million, which reflected our best estimate of collectibility risks on outstanding receivables, particularly from clients in high risk industries or with potential liquidity issues. Our margins could be adversely affected if our cost management actions are not sufficient to maintain sales and marketing and general and administrative costs at or below current levels as a percentage of net revenues. 46 Table of Contents Operating income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was $714 million, compared with $420 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was 13.2%, compared with 8.2% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Operating income for fiscal 2010 was $2,915 million, compared with $2,644 million for fiscal 2009. Operating margin for fiscal 2010 was 13.5%, compared with 12.3% for fiscal 2009. Restructuring costs of $253 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 reduced Operating margin by 110 basis points for fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the restructuring costs, Operating income as a percentage of net revenues for fiscal 2010 increased 10 basis points compared with fiscal 2009. Our Operating income and Earnings per share are also affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations on revenues and costs. Most of our costs are incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues. Where practical, we also seek to manage foreign currency exposure for costs not incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues by using currency protection provisions in our customer contracts and through our hedging programs. We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign exchange rates on our operating expenses is similar to that disclosed for net revenues. For more information on our hedging programs, see Note 7 (Derivative Financial Instruments) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Bookings and Backlog New contract bookings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were $6.51 billion, with consulting bookings of $3.54 billion and outsourcing bookings of $2.97 billion. New contract bookings for fiscal 2010 were $24.98 billion, with consulting bookings of $13.62 billion and outsourcing bookings of $11.36 billion. We provide information regarding our new contract bookings because we believe doing so provides useful trend information regarding changes in the volume of our new business over time. However, new bookings can vary significantly quarter to quarter depending in part on the timing of the signing of a small number of large outsourcing contracts. Clients are seeking flexibility by using a phased approach to contracting consulting work, which is resulting in smaller initial total contract values than in the past. Information regarding our new bookings is not comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues over time. There are no third party standards or requirements governing the calculation of bookings. New contract bookings involve estimates and judgments regarding new contracts as well as renewals, extensions and changes to existing contracts. We do not update our new bookings for material subsequent terminations or reductions related to bookings originally recorded in prior fiscal years. New contract bookings are recorded using then existing foreign currency exchange rates and are not subsequently adjusted for foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice, and some without notice. Accordingly, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize bookings attributable to these contracts as backlog. Normally, if a client terminates a project, the client remains obligated to pay for commitments we have made to third parties in connection with the project, services performed and reimbursable expenses incurred by us through the date of termination. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. We continually evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions based on available information and experience. Because the use of estimates is inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from 47 Table of Contents those estimates. Certain of our accounting policies require higher degrees of judgment than others in their application. These include certain aspects of accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes. Revenue Recognition Our contracts have different terms based on the scope, deliverables and complexity of the engagement, the terms of which frequently require us to make judgments and estimates in recognizing revenues. We have many types of contracts, including time and materials contracts, fixed price contracts and contracts with features of both of these contract types. In addition, some contracts include incentives related to costs incurred, benefits produced or adherence to schedule that may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts. We conduct rigorous reviews prior to signing such contracts to evaluate whether these incentives are reasonably achievable. We recognize revenues from technology integration consulting contracts using the percentage of completion method of accounting, which involves calculating the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared with the total estimated services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Estimated revenues used in applying the percentage of completion method include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and costs are subject to revision as the contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the periods in which they are first identified. If our estimates indicate that a contract loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract and are included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued liabilities. Revenues from contracts for non technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials or cost plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (SAB 101), as amended by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition (SAB 104). We consider amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, our efforts, measured by time incurred, typically represent the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non technology integration consulting contracts with fixed fees, we recognize revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered, and are earned. Contingent or incentive revenues relating to non technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts are earned. Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in different countries. In a number of these arrangements, we hire client employees and become responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in which case revenues are recognized when the services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with SAB 101, as amended by SAB 104. Revenues from time and materials or cost plus contracts are recognized as the services are performed. In such contracts, our effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from fixed price contracts are recognized on a straight line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. 48 Table of Contents Outsourcing contracts can also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts are earned. We continuously review and reassess our estimates of contract profitability. Circumstances that potentially affect profitability over the life of the contract include decreases in volumes of transactions or other inputs/outputs on which we are paid, failure to deliver agreed benefits, variances from planned internal/external costs to deliver our services, and other factors affecting revenues and costs. Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred, with the exception of certain transition costs related to the set up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external costs directly related to transition or set up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set up activities are deferred and recognized as revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. Revenues for contracts with multiple elements are allocated based on the lesser of the elements relative fair value or the amount that is not contingent on future delivery of another element. If the amount of non contingent revenues allocated to a delivered element accounted for under the percentage of completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non contingent. Fair value is determined based on the prices charged when each element is sold separately. Revenues are recognized in accordance with our accounting policies for the separate elements when the services have value on a stand alone basis, fair value of the separate elements exists and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in our control. While determining fair value and identifying separate elements require judgment, generally fair value and the separate elements are readily identifiable as we also sell those elements unaccompanied by other elements. Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met. Client prepayments (even if nonrefundable) are deferred and recognized over future periods as services are delivered or performed. Our consulting revenues are affected by the number of work days in the fiscal quarter, which in turn is affected by the level of vacation days and holidays. Consequently, since our first and third quarters typically have approximately 5 10% more work days than our second and fourth quarters, our consulting revenues are typically higher in our first and third quarters than in our second and fourth quarters. Net revenues include the margin earned on computer hardware and software resale contracts, as well as revenues from alliance agreements, neither of which is material to us. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out of pocket expenses and third party costs, such as the cost of hardware and software resales. In addition, Reimbursements may include allocations from gross billings to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically identify reimbursable expenses. We report revenues net of any revenue based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue producing transactions. 49 Table of Contents Income Taxes Determining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities involves judgment. As a global company, we calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating current tax exposures in each jurisdiction as well as making judgments regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Tax exposures can involve complex issues and may require an extended period to resolve. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation allowances accordingly. Factors considered in making this determination include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, tax planning strategies and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction in which the tax asset is located. Valuation allowances will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. Changes in the geographic mix or estimated level of annual income before taxes can affect the overall effective tax rate. We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our quarterly operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. In accordance with FASB guidance on uncertainty in income taxes, a change in judgment that impacts the measurement of a tax position taken in a prior year is recognized as a discrete item in the interim period in which the change occurs. In the event there is a significant unusual or infrequent item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is recorded in the interim period in which it occurs. No taxes have been provided on undistributed foreign earnings that are planned to be indefinitely reinvested. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and long term investment requirements, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for withholding taxes may apply, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate. As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional taxes. We establish tax liabilities or reduce tax assets for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and supportable under local tax law, we believe we may not succeed in realizing the tax benefit of certain positions if challenged. In evaluating a tax position, we determine whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Our estimate of the ultimate tax liability contains assumptions based on past experiences, judgments about potential actions by taxing jurisdictions as well as judgments about the likely outcome of issues that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions each quarter and adjust the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit or the expiration of a statute of limitations. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of uncertain tax positions are reasonable. However, final determinations of prior year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different from estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period in which that determination is made. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately accounted for uncertain tax positions. 50 Table of Contents Revenues by Segment/Operating Group Our five reportable operating segments are our operating groups, which are Communications & High Tech, Financial Services, Health & Public Service (formed on September 1, 2009, by combining various healthcare related components of our Products operating group with our Public Service operating group), Products and Resources. Operating groups are managed on the basis of Net revenues because our management believes Net revenues are a better indicator of operating group performance than revenues. In addition to reporting net revenues by operating group, we also report net revenues by two types of work: consulting and outsourcing, which represent the services sold by our operating groups. Consulting net revenues, which include management and technology consulting and systems integration, reflect a finite, distinct project or set of projects with a defined outcome and typically a defined set of specific deliverables. Outsourcing net revenues typically reflect ongoing, repeatable services or capabilities provided to transition, run and or manage operations of client systems or business functions. From time to time, our operating groups work together to sell and implement certain contracts. The resulting revenues and costs from these contracts may be apportioned among the participating operating groups. Generally, operating expenses for each operating group have similar characteristics and are subject to the same factors, pressures and challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on the industries served by our operating groups affect revenues and operating expenses within our operating groups to differing degrees. The mix between consulting and outsourcing is not uniform among our operating groups. Local currency fluctuations also tend to affect our operating groups differently, depending on the geographic concentrations and locations of their businesses. While we provide discussion about our results of operations below, we cannot measure how much of our revenue growth in a particular period is attributable to changes in price or volume. Management does not track standard measures of unit or rate volume. Instead, our measures of volume and price are extremely complex, as each of our services contracts is unique, reflecting a customized mix of specific services that does not fit into standard comparability measurements. Pricing for our services is a function of the nature of each service to be provided, the skills required and outcome sought, as well as estimated cost, risk, contract terms and other factors. 51 Table of Contents Results of Operations for Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Net revenues (by operating group, geography and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows: Fiscal Percent(Decrease)IncreaseU.S.$ Percent(Decrease)IncreaseLocalCurrency Percent ofTotal NetRevenues forFiscal 2010 2009 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) OPERATING GROUPS Communications & High Tech $ 4,612 $ 4,831 (5 )% (7 )% 21 % 22 % Financial Services 4,446 4,323 3 1 21 20 Health & Public Service(1) 3,581 3,662 (2 ) (4 ) 17 17 Products(1) 4,985 4,853 3 1 23 23 Resources 3,911 3,880 1 (2 ) 18 18 Other 15 29 n/m n/m TOTAL Net Revenues(2) 21,551 21,577 (2 )% 100 % 100 % Reimbursements 1,544 1,594 (3 )% TOTAL REVENUES(2) $ 23,094 $ 23,171 GEOGRAPHY Americas $ 9,465 $ 9,403 1 % (1 )% 44 % 44 % EMEA(3) 9,583 9,904 (3 ) (4 ) 44 46 Asia Pacific 2,502 2,270 10 1 12 10 TOTAL Net Revenues(2) $ 21,551 $ 21,577 (2 )% 100 % 100 % TYPE OF WORK Consulting $ 12,371 $ 12,556 (1 )% (4 )% 57 % 58 % Outsourcing 9,179 9,021 2 43 42 TOTAL Net Revenues(2) $ 21,551 $ 21,577 (2 )% 100 % 100 % n/m not meaningful (1) On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health & Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare related components of our Products operating group with our Public Service operating group. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. (2) May not total due to rounding. (3) EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa. We conduct business in the following countries that individually comprised 10% or more of consolidated net revenues within fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008: Fiscal 2010 2009 2008 United States 36 % 36 % 34 % United Kingdom 10 10 12 52 Table of Contents Net Revenues Operating Groups The following net revenues by operating group commentary discusses local currency net revenues changes in aggregate for fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009: Communications & High Tech net revenues decreased 7% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined significantly in local currency, primarily due to declines across all industry groups in EMEA and Asia Pacific. While the fiscal 2010 consulting revenues reflected a decline, strong year over year growth in the fourth quarter partially offset revenue declines in the first three quarters of fiscal 2010. The consulting revenue decline reflected some clients continuing to seek flexibility by shifting to a more phased approach to contracting work and focusing on managing the scope of existing projects. Outsourcing revenues declined modestly in local currency, primarily due to a significant decline in Communications in Americas, partially offset by growth in Electronics & High Tech in Americas and Asia Pacific and Media & Entertainment in EMEA and Americas. Client strategy changes, which began in fiscal 2009, particularly in Communications, resulted in a number of contract modifications, which had a negative impact on outsourcing revenues during fiscal 2010. Financial Services net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Year over year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 more than offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. Consulting revenues increased in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Banking across all geographic regions and Capital Markets in EMEA and Asia Pacific, partially offset by declines in Insurance in EMEA and Americas. Outsourcing revenues declined significantly in local currency, primarily due to declines in Banking in EMEA and Americas, partially offset by growth in Insurance in EMEA. Modest year over year outsourcing growth in the fourth quarter partially offset revenue declines in the first three quarters of fiscal 2010. Client consolidations and strategy changes that resulted in contract terminations in fiscal 2009 had a negative impact on our outsourcing revenue in fiscal 2010. Health & Public Service net revenues declined 4% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined in local currency, primarily due to a decline in Public Service in Americas, principally due to the impact of inefficient delivery on a contract, and declines in Health in Americas and EMEA and Public Service in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues increased modestly in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Americas in Health and Public Service. In addition, the growing uncertainty and challenges in the public sector, particularly in the United States and the United Kingdom and several other countries in Europe, continue to have a significant impact on demand in our public service business throughout the world. The uncertainty of the economic situation resulted in longer sales cycles and a shift to a more phased approach to contracting work, with a focus on near term cost savings rather than large transformational projects. These trends had a negative impact on our revenues and new contract bookings during fiscal 2010 and we expect this trend to continue. Products net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Year over year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 more than offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. Consulting revenues declined modestly in local currency, primarily due to declines in EMEA and Americas across all industry groups except Consumer Goods & Services, which experienced significant growth in Americas. Consulting revenues reflected the continuation of the more conservative spending patterns of our clients, which began in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. In addition, consulting revenues were negatively impacted by a significant reduction in revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 at two large clients as a result of completing several large projects and transitioning from front end consulting to outsourcing services. Outsourcing revenues increased in 53 Table of Contents local currency, primarily driven by growth across all geographic regions and across all industry groups except Retail in Americas and Asia Pacific. Resources net revenues decreased 2% in local currency. While the fiscal 2010 net revenues reflected a decline, year over year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 partially offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. Consulting revenues declined modestly in local currency, primarily due to declines in EMEA across all industry groups and in Utilities in Americas and Asia Pacific, partially offset by growth in Energy in Americas. Consulting revenues were impacted by our clients continued caution in launching new programs as well as their focus on slowing the pace of existing projects. Outsourcing revenues increased modestly in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Energy in Americas and Natural Resources in Asia Pacific, partially offset by declines in Utilities and Chemicals in Americas. Geographic Regions Americas net revenues decreased 1% in local currency. While the fiscal 2010 net revenues reflected a decline, year over year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010, particularly in the United States, partially offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. We experienced declines in local currency across most countries in Americas, principally due to decreases in the United States and Brazil. EMEA net revenues decreased 4% in local currency. While the fiscal 2010 net revenues reflected a decline, year over year growth in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 partially offset revenue declines in the first three quarters of fiscal 2010. We experienced declines in local currency across many countries in EMEA, principally due to decreases in the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Italy and France. These declines were partially offset by growth in several countries, led by the United Kingdom. Asia Pacific net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Year over year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 more than offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. Growth in local currency was principally driven by our business in Singapore and Malaysia, partially offset by declines in Australia and Japan. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for fiscal 2010 were $20,179 million, a decrease of $348 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 87.4% from 88.6% during this period. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2010 were $18,636 million, a decrease of $297 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 86.5% from 87.7% during this period. Cost of Services Cost of services for fiscal 2010 was $15,843 million, a decrease of $487 million, or 3%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 68.6% from 70.5% during this period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2010 was $14,300 million, a decrease of $436 million, or 3%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 66.4% from 68.3% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2010 increased to 33.6% from 31.7% for fiscal 2009. The primary driver for the increase in gross margin for fiscal 2010 was a change related to the implementation of our sales effectiveness model, which directed a higher percentage of resource capacity to selling and other business development activities and streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on business development activities. See Overview. 54 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2010 was $2,658 million, an increase of $499 million, or 23%, from fiscal 2009, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 12.3% from 10.0% during this period. The increase as a percentage of net revenues was primarily driven by a change related to the implementation of our sales effectiveness model, which directed a higher percentage of resource capacity to selling and other business development activities and streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on business development activities. See Overview. General and Administrative Costs General and administrative costs for fiscal 2010 were $1,668 million, a decrease of $120 million, or 7%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 7.7% from 8.3% during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to the $72 million bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, as well as expense savings resulting from the global consolidation of office space in fiscal 2009. Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net We recorded restructuring costs of $253 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. These costs included $111 million related to global consolidation of our office space and $142 million related to realignment of our workforce, primarily at the senior executive level, to reset our cost structure and better align our organization for the future. We recorded net reorganization costs of $10 million for fiscal 2010, compared with net reorganization benefits of $3 million for fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. As of August 31, 2010, the remaining liability for reorganization costs was $272 million, of which $262 million was classified as Other accrued liabilities because expirations of statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months. However, resolution of current tax audits, initiation of additional audits or litigation may delay final settlements. Final settlement will result in a payment on a final settlement and or recording a reorganization cost or benefit in our Consolidated Income Statement. For additional information, refer to Note 3 (Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 55 Table of Contents Operating Income and Operating Margin Operating income for fiscal 2010 was $2,915 million, an increase of $271 million, or 10%, from fiscal 2009, and increased as percentage of net revenues to 13.5% from 12.3% during this period. The restructuring costs of $253 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 reduced Operating margin by 110 basis points for fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the restructuring costs in fiscal 2009, Operating income as a percentage of net revenues for fiscal 2010 increased 10 basis points compared with fiscal 2009. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: Fiscal 2010 2009 OperatingIncome OperatingMargin OperatingIncome OperatingMargin Increase(Decrease) (in millions of U.S. dollars) Communications & High Tech $ 615 13 % $ 608 13 % $ 7 Financial Services 772 17 467 11 305 Health & Public Service(1) 287 8 480 13 (193 ) Products(1) 592 12 531 11 61 Resources 649 17 558 14 91 Total $ 2,915 13.5 % $ 2,644 12.3 % $ 271 (1) On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health & Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare related components of our Products operating group with our Public Service operating group. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Operating Income and Operating Margin Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non GAAP) FY10 Operating Income as Reported (GAAP) compared to FY09 Operating Income Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non GAAP) Fiscal 2010 2009 OperatingIncome OperatingMargin RestructuringCosts(2) OperatingIncomeExcludingRestructuringCosts OperatingMargin (Decrease)Increase(3) (in millions of U.S. dollars) Communications & High Tech $ 615 13 % $ 49 $ 657 14 % $ (42 ) Financial Services 772 17 53 521 12 252 Health & Public Service(1) 287 8 46 525 14 (239 ) Products(1) 592 12 58 589 12 3 Resources 649 17 46 604 16 45 Total(3) $ 2,915 13.5 % $ 253 $ 2,896 13.4 % $ 18 (1) On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health & Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare related components of our Products operating group with our Public Service operating group. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. (2) Represents restructuring costs related to reducing excess real estate capacity and to realign the workforce incurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. We have presented Operating income and operating margin excluding restructuring costs, because the restructuring costs meaningfully affect the comparability of our results of operations between periods. We believe that providing investors with this information gives additional insights into our on going results of operations. (3) May not total due to rounding. We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our Operating income during fiscal 2010 was similar to that disclosed for Net revenues. In fiscal 2009, each operating group recorded a portion of the $72 million bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter and 56 Table of Contents the $253 million restructuring cost recorded in the fourth quarter. Additionally, in fiscal 2010, each operating group experienced expense savings resulting from the global consolation of office space in fiscal 2009. See General and Administrative Costs and Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net. The commentary below provides additional insight into operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2010, compared with fiscal 2009, exclusive of foreign currency exchange rates, bad debt provision and restructuring cost impacts. Communications & High Tech operating income decreased, primarily due to revenue declines and higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues, offset by improved outsourcing contract profitability. Financial Services operating income increased, primarily driven by consulting revenue growth, improved utilization and outsourcing contract profitability, partially offset by a decline related to lower outsourcing revenues. Health & Public Service operating income decreased, primarily due to inefficient delivery on a few consulting contracts, higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues and lower consulting contract profitability. In addition, fiscal 2009 results were favorably impacted by the resolution of a contract termination. Products operating income was flat, as an increase related to higher outsourcing revenues was offset by a decline related to lower consulting revenues, lower consulting contract profitability and higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues. Resources operating income increased, primarily driven by improved utilization, partially offset by a decline related to lower consulting revenues. Interest Income Interest income was $30 million in fiscal 2010, a decrease of $20 million, or 40%, from fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily due to lower interest rates. Other Expense, net Other expense, net was $16 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $12 million from fiscal 2009. The change was driven by higher net foreign currency exchange losses during fiscal 2010. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rates for fiscal 2010 and 2009 were 29.3% and 27.6%, respectively. The effective tax rate increased in fiscal 2010 primarily as a result of lower benefits related to adjustments to prior year tax liabilities in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009, partially offset by changes in the geographic distribution of income. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some of our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See Business Organizational Structure. The resulting Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $280 million in fiscal 2010, a decrease of $68 million, or 20%, from fiscal 2009. The decrease was due to a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average noncontrolling ownership interest to 13% for fiscal 2010 from 17% for fiscal 2009. 57 Table of Contents Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share were $2.66 for fiscal 2010, compared with $2.44 for fiscal 2009. The $0.22 increase in fiscal 2010 earnings per share compared with fiscal 2009 earnings per share was primarily due to the following: a $0.24 increase reflecting the impact of the restructuring charge recorded in the fourth quarter last year; a $0.07 increase from a lower share count; and a $0.06 increase from favorable foreign exchange rates. These increase were partially offset by the following: a $0.04 decrease from lower revenue and operating income in local currency; a $0.01 decrease from lower reorganization benefits; a $0.03 decrease from lower non operating items; and a $0.07 decrease from a higher effective income tax rate. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Results of Operations for Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Net revenues (by operating group, geography and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows: Fiscal Percent(Decrease)IncreaseU.S.$ Percent(Decrease)IncreaseLocalCurrency Percent ofTotal NetRevenues forFiscal 2009 2008 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) OPERATING GROUPS Communications & High Tech $ 4,831 $ 5,450 (11 )% (4 )% 22 % 23 % Financial Services 4,323 5,005 (14 ) (6 ) 20 22 Health & Public Service(1) 3,662 3,582 2 8 17 15 Products(1) 4,853 5,357 (9 ) (1 ) 23 23 Resources 3,880 3,963 (2 ) 8 18 17 Other 29 29 n/m n/m TOTAL Net Revenues(2) 21,577 23,387 (8 )% 100 % 100 % Reimbursements 1,594 1,927 (17 ) TOTAL REVENUES $ 23,171 $ 25,314 (8 )% GEOGRAPHY Americas $ 9,403 $ 9,726 (3 )% % 44 % 42 % EMEA 9,904 11,546 (14 ) (2 ) 46 49 Asia Pacific 2,270 2,115 7 12 10 9 TOTAL Net Revenues $ 21,577 $ 23,387 (8 )% 100 % 100 % TYPE OF WORK Consulting $ 12,556 $ 14,117 (11 )% (4 )% 58 % 60 % Outsourcing 9,021 9,270 (3 ) 6 42 40 TOTAL Net Revenues $ 21,577 $ 23,387 (8 )% 100 % 100 % n/m not meaningful (1) On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health & Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare related components of our Products operating group with our Public Service operating group. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. (2) May not total due to rounding. 58 Table of Contents Net Revenues Since January 2009, our business was affected by the continuing global economic downturn. Many clients delayed new large consulting commitments, slowed the pace of on going projects and reduced requests for incremental projects. In addition, in response to clients seeking to reduce operating costs with requests for price concessions, where practicable, we shifted to lower cost resources at a reduced price level. As a result, most of our operating groups experienced either declines in or lower local currency growth in consulting revenues beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Consulting revenues declined 12% in local currency in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, primarily due to declines in Communications & High Tech of 26%, Products of 23%, Financial Services of 12% and Resources of 5%, partially offset by local currency growth in Health & Public Service of 11%. In addition, most of our operating groups experienced lower local currency growth in outsourcing revenues during fiscal 2009, compared with fiscal 2008. In the fourth quarter, outsourcing revenue growth in local currency slowed to 1%, compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, as growth in Products of 8%, Resources of 5% and Health & Public Service of 5% was offset by declines in Financial Services of 8% and Communications & High Tech of 2%. Operating Groups The following net revenues by operating group commentary discusses local currency revenues changes for fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008: Communications & High Tech net revenues decreased 4% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined 11% in local currency, with growth in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, more than offset by year over year contraction during the last three quarters. The aggregate local currency decline was due to declines across all industry groups in Americas and EMEA. These declines were partially offset by consulting growth across all industry groups in Asia Pacific. Client strategy changes, particularly in Communications, have resulted in a number of contract modifications in fiscal 2009, which had a negative impact on consulting revenues in fiscal 2009 and continued to have a negative impact in fiscal 2010. Outsourcing revenues increased 4% in local currency, primarily driven by growth across all industry groups in Asia Pacific and in Electronics & High Tech and Media & Entertainment in EMEA, partially offset by a decline in Communications in EMEA. Financial Services net revenues decreased 6% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined 11% in local currency, primarily due to declines in Banking in EMEA and, to a lesser extent, in Insurance and Capital Markets in Americas. These declines were partially offset by consulting growth in Banking in the Americas region and in Capital Markets in EMEA. Outsourcing revenues increased 2% in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Banking in EMEA and in Insurance in Americas and Asia Pacific, partially offset by declines in Capital Markets in Americas and EMEA. Client strategy changes and consolidations in the financial services industry resulted in a number of outsourcing contract terminations, which had a negative impact on our revenues, contributing to a decline in outsourcing revenues during the second half of fiscal 2009. Health & Public Service net revenues increased 8% in local currency. Consulting and outsourcing revenues increased 11% and 4% in local currency, respectively. Growth was primarily in Americas and EMEA. Products net revenues decreased 1% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined by 8% in local currency, with growth in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, more than offset by year over year contraction during the last three quarters. The aggregate local currency decline was primarily due to declines in EMEA across all industry groups except Retail and in Americas across all industry 59 Table of Contents groups except Consumer Goods & Services. Outsourcing revenues increased 11% in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Consumer Goods & Services and Transportation & Travel Services across all geographic regions. Resources net revenues increased 8% in local currency. Consulting revenues increased 7% in local currency, with strong growth in the first half of fiscal 2009, partially offset by year over year contraction during the second half. The aggregate growth was led by Utilities in EMEA and Natural Resources in Asia Pacific, partially offset by a decline in Chemicals in the EMEA. Outsourcing revenues increased 8% in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Utilities and Energy in EMEA and growth in Utilities in Americas. Geographic Regions Americas net revenues were flat in local currency. We experienced growth in local currency in Brazil, driven by strong growth during the first three quarters of fiscal 2009, which moderated to flat growth in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. This growth was offset by declines in the United States and Canada, where growth early in the year was more than offset by lower growth and or declines that began in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. EMEA net revenues decreased 2% in local currency. In general, growth moderated or declined across EMEA beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, led by declines in local currency in the United Kingdom, Spain, Switzerland, Ireland and Sweden. In the Netherlands and Germany we experienced growth in local currency for the first three quarters of fiscal 2009, partially offset by a fourth quarter decline in Germany and flat growth in the Netherlands. Asia Pacific net revenues increased 12% in local currency. Growth in local currency was principally driven by our business in Australia and Singapore. In Japan we experienced growth in local currency for the first three quarters of fiscal 2009, partially offset by a fourth quarter decline. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for fiscal 2009 were $20,527 million, a decrease of $1,775 million, or 8%, from fiscal 2008, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 88.6% from 88.1% during this period. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2009 were $18,933 million, a decrease of $1,442 million, or 7%, from fiscal 2008, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 87.7% from 87.1% during this period. Cost of Services Cost of services for fiscal 2009 was $16,330 million, a decrease of $1,798 million, or 10%, from fiscal 2008, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 70.5% from 71.6% during this period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2009 was $14,736 million, a decrease of $1,465 million, or 9%, from fiscal 2008, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 68.3% from 69.3% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2009 was 31.7%, an increase from 30.7% in fiscal 2008, driven primarily by improved overall outsourcing contract profitability. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2009 was $2,159 million, a decrease of $111 million, or 5%, from fiscal 2008, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 10.0% from 9.7% over this period. The increase as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to an increase in selling costs as a percentage of net revenues. 60 Table of Contents General and Administrative Costs General and administrative costs for fiscal 2009 were $1,789 million, a decrease of $92 million, or 5%, from fiscal 2008, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 8.3% from 8.0% over this period. The increase as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to the bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 of $72 million, or 0.3% of net revenues. This provision reflects our best estimate of collectibility risks on outstanding receivables, in light of global economic conditions, particularly from clients in high risk industries or with potential liquidity issues. Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net We recorded restructuring costs of $253 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. These costs included $111 million related to global consolidation of our office space and $142 million related to realignment of our workforce, primarily at the senior executive level, to reset our cost structure and better align our organization for the future. We recorded net reorganization benefits of $3 million for fiscal 2009, which included a $16 million reduction in reorganization liabilities offset by $13 million of interest expense associated with carrying these liabilities. We recorded net reorganization costs of $23 million for fiscal 2008, related to interest expense associated with carrying the liabilities. In fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. For additional information, refer to Note 3 (Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Operating Income and Operating Margin Operating income for fiscal 2009 was $2,644 million, a decrease of $368 million, or 12%, from fiscal 2008, and decreased as percentage of net revenues to 12.3% from 12.9% during this period. The restructuring costs of $253 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 reduced Operating margin by 110 basis points for fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the restructuring costs, Operating income as a percentage of net revenues for fiscal 2009 increased 50 basis points compared with fiscal 2008. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: Fiscal 2009 2008 (Decrease)Increase(2) OperatingIncome Percent of OGOperating Margin OperatingIncome Percent of OGOperating Margin (in millions of U.S. dollars) Communications & High Tech $ 608 13 % $ 657 12 % $ (49 ) Financial Services 467 11 661 13 (193 ) Health & Public Service(1) 480 13 425 12 55 Products(1) 531 11 699 13 (169 ) Resources 558 14 570 14 (12 ) Total $ 2,644 12.3 % $ 3,012 12.9 % $ (368 ) (1) On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health & Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare related components of our Products operating group with our Public Service operating group. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. (2) May not total due to rounding. 61 Table of Contents Operating Income and Operating Margin Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non GAAP) FY09 Operating Income Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non GAAP) compared to FY08 Operating Income as Reported (GAAP) Fiscal 2009 2008 (Decrease)Increase(3) RestructuringCosts(2) Operating IncomeExcludingRestructuringCosts OperatingMargin Operating Income(as Reported) OperatingMargin (in millions of U.S. dollars) Communications & High Tech $ 49 $ 657 14 % $ 657 12 % $ Financial Services 53 521 12 661 13 (140 ) Health & Public Services(1) 46 525 14 425 12 101 Products(1) 58 589 12 699 13 (111 ) Resources 46 604 16 570 14 34 Total(3) $ 253 $ 2,896 13.4 % $ 3,012 12.9 % $ (115 ) (1) On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health & Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare related components of our Products operating group with our Public Service operating group. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. (2) Represents restructuring costs related to reducing excess real estate capacity and to realign the workforce incurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. We have presented Operating income and operating margin excluding restructuring costs, because the restructuring costs meaningfully affect the comparability of our results of operations between periods. We believe that providing investors with this information gives additional insights into our on going results of operations. (3) May not total due to rounding. While we saw our net revenues contract, due to both the global economic downturn and significant foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, we improved our gross margins by focusing on contract profitability, particularly in our outsourcing business. This improvement was partially offset by higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues. In addition, each operating group recorded a portion of the $72 million bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and a portion of the $253 million restructuring cost. See General and Administrative Costs and Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net. During fiscal 2009, we estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign exchange rates on our operating income is similar to that disclosed for net revenues. The operating group commentary below provides additional insight into operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2009, compared to fiscal 2008, exclusive of foreign currency exchange rate, bad debt provision and restructuring impacts. Communications & High Tech operating income increased due to improved outsourcing and consulting contract margins, offset by consulting revenue declines. In addition, fiscal 2008 reflected the impact of delivery inefficiencies on a small number of consulting contracts. Financial Services operating income decreased, primarily due to consulting revenue declines, a lower proportion of high margin consulting work and higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by improved outsourcing contract margins. Products operating income decreased due to declines in consulting revenue and consulting contract margins, early stage work at lower margins on a few large contracts in the fourth quarter and higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by improved outsourcing contract margins. Public Service operating income increased due to resolution of a contract termination and improved delivery efficiencies compared with fiscal 2008 and consulting revenue growth. 62 Table of Contents Resources operating income increased due to revenue growth and improved outsourcing contract margins, partially offset by higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues. Interest Income Interest income was $50 million in fiscal 2009, a decrease of $65 million, or 56%, from fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rates for fiscal 2009 and 2008 were 27.6% and 29.3%, respectively. The effective tax rate decreased in 2009 primarily as a result of lower expenses related to tax rate changes and other adjustments to prior year tax liabilities required in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some of our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See Business Organizational Structure. The resulting Net income of Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $348 million in fiscal 2009, a decrease of $157 million, or 31%, from fiscal 2008. The change was due to a $259 million decrease in Net income and a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average minority ownership interests to 17% for fiscal 2009 from 22% for fiscal 2008. Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share were $2.44 for fiscal 2009, compared with $2.65 for fiscal 2008. The $0.21 decrease in our earnings per share was primarily the result of $253 million in pre tax restructuring costs, which reduced earnings per share by $0.24. Absent the restructuring costs, earnings per share increased $0.03 compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to the following: Increases of $0.11 from growth in revenues and operating income in local currency, $0.11 from lower weighted average shares outstanding, and $0.06 from a lower effective tax rate. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $0.20 from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, compared with fiscal 2008, and $0.05 from other items, including reorganization benefits and non operating items. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, available cash reserves and debt capacity available under various credit facilities. In addition, we could raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings. We may use our available or additional funds to: take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; acquire complementary businesses or technologies; develop new services and solutions; or facilitate purchases, redemptions and exchanges of Accenture shares. 63 Table of Contents As of August 31, 2010, cash and cash equivalents was $4,838 million, compared with $4,542 million as of August 31, 2009, an increase of $297 million. Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in our Consolidated Cash Flows Statements, are summarized in the following table: Fiscal 2010 2009 2008 2010 to 2009Change(1) (in millions of U.S. dollars) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 3,092 $ 3,160 $ 2,803 $ (69 ) Investing activities (274 ) (245 ) (324 ) (29 ) Financing activities (2,429 ) (1,850 ) (2,162 ) (579 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (92 ) (126 ) (29 ) 34 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 297 $ 939 $ 288 $ (642 ) (1) May not total due to rounding. Operating activities: The $69 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a net use of cash related to changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by higher net income. Investing activities: The $29 million increase in cash used was primarily due to lower net proceeds from available for sale investments and increased spending on business acquisitions, partially offset by lower spending on property and equipment. Financing activities: The $579 million increase in cash used was primarily due to increases in cash dividends paid and net purchases of shares. For additional information, see Note 13 (Material Transactions Affecting Shareholders Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We believe that our available cash balances and the cash flows expected to be generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our current and planned working capital and investment needs for the next twelve months. We also believe that our longer term working capital and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities. Borrowing Facilities As of August 31, 2010, we had the following borrowing facilities, including the issuance of letters of credit, to support general working capital purposes: Facility Amount BorrowingsUnderFacilities (in millions of U.S. dollars) Syndicated loan facility(1) $ 1,200 $ Separate, uncommitted, unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities(2) 369 Local guaranteed and non guaranteed lines of credit(3) 147 Total $ 1,716 $ (1) This facility, which matures on July 31, 2012, provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including the issuance of letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. We continue to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no borrowings under the facility. The facility is subject to annual commitment fees. 64 Table of Contents (2) We maintain separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local currency financing for the majority of our operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no borrowings under these facilities. During fiscal 2010, we had no material borrowings under the facilities. Based on the average annual balances, the weighted average interest rate on borrowings under these multicurrency credit facilities and lines of credit was approximately 4% in fiscal 2009. (3) We also maintain local guaranteed and non guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access our global facilities. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no borrowings under these various facilities. Under the borrowing facilities described above, we had an aggregate of $152 million and $172 million of letters of credit outstanding as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we had total outstanding debt of $2 million and $1 million as of August 31, 2010 and 2009. Share Purchases and Redemptions The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for our publicly announced open market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees. A summary of our share purchase activity during fiscal 2010 is as follows: Accenture plc Class AOrdinary Shares Accenture SCA Class ICommon Shares andAccenture CanadaHoldings Inc.Exchangeable Shares Total Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount (in millions of U.S. dollars, except share amounts) Open market share purchases(1) 24,940,402 $ 986 $ 24,940,402 $ 986 Other share purchase programs 23,152,567 945 23,152,567 945 Other purchases(2) 3,666,119 139 3,666,119 139 Total(3) 28,606,521 $ 1,125 23,152,567 $ 945 51,759,088 $ 2,071 (1) We conduct a publicly announced, open market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held as treasury shares by Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to our employees. (2) During fiscal 2010, as authorized under our various employee equity share plans, we acquired Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans. (3) May not total due to rounding. As of August 31, 2010, our aggregate available authorization was $2,920 million for our publicly announced open market share purchase program and the other share purchase programs. We intend to continue to use a significant portion of cash generated from operations for share repurchases during fiscal 2011. The number of shares ultimately repurchased under our open market share purchase program may vary depending on numerous factors, including, without limitation, share price and other market conditions, the companys ongoing capital allocation planning, the levels of cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, general economic and or business conditions, and board and management discretion. Additionally, as these factors may change over the course of the year, the amount of share repurchase activity during any particular period cannot be predicted, and may fluctuate from time to time. Share repurchases may be made from time to time through open market purchases, in respect of redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares, through the use of Rule 10b5 1 plans and or by other means. The repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time, without notice. 65 Table of Contents Other Share Redemptions During fiscal 2010, we issued 3,977,356 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to our registration statement on Form S 3 (the registration statement). The registration statement allows us, at our option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares held by our senior executives, former executives and their permitted transferees. Subsequent Developments On September 29, 2010, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi annual cash dividend of $0.45 per share on our Class A ordinary shares payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 15, 2010. Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA to declare a semi annual cash dividend of $0.45 per share on its Class I common shares payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 12, 2010. Both dividends are payable on November 15, 2010. Obligations and Commitments As of August 31, 2010, we had the following obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts, contractual obligations and commercial commitments: Payments due by period Contractual Cash Obligations(1)(2) Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years (in millions of U.S. dollars) Long term debt $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ 1 Operating leases 1,846 407 499 327 613 Retirement obligations(3) 119 16 24 23 56 Purchase obligations and other commitments(4) 166 62 71 30 3 Total $ 2,133 $ 486 $ 594 $ 380 $ 673 (1) The liability related to unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. For additional information, refer to Note 9 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (2) In fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. As of August 31, 2010, the remaining liability for reorganization costs was $272 million, of which $262 million was classified as Other accrued liabilities because expirations of statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months. The reorganization liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. Timing of the resolution of tax audits or the initiation of additional litigation and or criminal tax proceedings may delay final resolution. Final settlement will result in a payment on a final settlement and or recording a reorganization cost or benefit in our Consolidated Income Statement. For additional information, refer to Note 3 (Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (3) Amounts represent projected payments under certain unfunded retirement plans for former pre incorporation partners. Given these plans are unfunded, we pay these benefits directly. These plans were eliminated for active partners after May 15, 2001. (4) Other commitments include, among other things, information technology, software support and maintenance obligations, as well as other obligations in the ordinary course of business that we cannot cancel or where we would be required to pay a termination fee in the event of cancellation. Amounts shown do not include recourse that we may have to recover termination fees or penalties from clients. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. These arrangements with clients can include provisions whereby we have joint and several liability in relation to the performance of certain contractual obligations along with third parties also providing services and products for a specific project. Indemnification provisions are also included in arrangements under which we agree to hold the indemnified party harmless with respect to third party claims related to such matters as title to assets sold or licensed or certain intellectual property rights. 66 Table of Contents Typically, we have contractual recourse against third parties for certain payments made by us in connection with arrangements where third party nonperformance has given rise to the clients claim. Payments by us under any of the arrangements described above are generally conditioned on the client making a claim which may be disputed by us typically under dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular arrangement. The limitations of liability under these arrangements may be expressly limited or may not be expressly specified in terms of time and or amount. For arrangements with unspecified limitations, we cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement. To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 15 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements On September 1, 2009, we adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) on business combinations. The guidance establishes principles and requirements for: recognizing and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree; recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; expensing acquisition related costs as incurred; and determining what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. The adoption of the guidance on business combinations did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. On September 1, 2009, we adopted guidance issued by the FASB on noncontrolling interests, which establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary, previously referred to as minority interest, to be presented as a separate component in the shareholders equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As required, the guidance on noncontrolling interests was applied prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented. New Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009, the FASB issued amended revenue recognition guidance for arrangements with multiple deliverables. The new guidance eliminates the residual method of allocation in previous guidance and requires that arrangement considerations be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the relative selling price. The new guidance requires that a vendor use estimates of a selling price developed in a manner that is consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis for all deliverables that meet the remaining separation criteria when vendor specific objective evidence and third party evidence, respectively, do not exist as estimates of selling price. This guidance is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 67 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. Foreign Currency Risk We are exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business. We hedge material cash flow exposures when feasible using forward contracts. These instruments are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk. Credit risk is managed through careful selection and ongoing evaluation of the financial institutions utilized as counterparties. Certain of these hedge positions are undesignated hedges of balance sheet exposures such as intercompany loans and typically have maturities of less than one year. These hedges primarily U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Swiss franc, U.S. dollar/Australian dollar, U.S. dollar/Norwegian Krone, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso, U.S. dollar/ Japanese yen, and U.S. dollar/Danish Krone are intended to offset remeasurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Income Statement. Additionally, we have hedge positions that are designated cash flow hedges of certain intercompany charges relating to our Global Delivery Network. These hedges U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso and U.K. pound/Indian rupee, which typically have maturities not exceeding three years are intended to partially offset the impact of foreign currency movements on future costs relating to resources supplied by Accentures Global Delivery Network. For designated cash flow hedges, gains and losses currently recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss will be reclassified into earnings at the time when certain anticipated intercompany charges are accrued as Cost of Services. As of August 31, 2010, it is anticipated that $1 million of the net gains, net of tax currently recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss will be reclassified into Cost of Services within the next 12 months. We use sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have on the fair value of our hedge portfolio. The sensitivity of the hedge portfolio is computed based on the market value of future cash flows as affected by changes in exchange rates. This sensitivity analysis represents the hypothetical changes in value of the hedge position and does not reflect the offsetting gain or loss on the underlying exposure. A 10% change in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar (or other base currency of the hedge if not a U.S. dollar hedge) with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a change in the fair value of our hedge instruments of approximately $218 million and $180 million as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Interest Rate Risk The interest rate risk associated with our borrowing and investing activities as of August 31, 2010 is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. While we may do so in the future, we have not used derivative financial instruments to alter the interest rate characteristics of our investment holdings or debt instruments. Equity Price Risk The equity price risk associated with our marketable equity securities that are subject to market price volatility is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 68 Table of Contents 
