ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.We use the terms Accenture, we, the Company, our and us in this report to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to fiscal 2012 means the 12 month period that ended on August 31, 2012. All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year.We use the term in local currency so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period to period comparisons of business performance. Financial results in local currency are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year periods foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.OverviewRevenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts and to deliver solutions and services that add value relevant to our clients current needs and challenges. The level of revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market leading service offerings and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis.Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions, credit market conditions and levels of business confidence. There continues to be significant volatility in markets around the world, as well as economic and geopolitical uncertainty in many of the markets where we operate, which could impact our business, particularly in the United States and Europe. Such volatility and uncertainty has adversely affected and will in the future affect our clients and the levels of business activities in some industries and geographies where we operate, which may reduce demand for our services. This has also impacted the types of services our clients are demanding; for example, clients are requesting a higher volume of outsourcing services and placing a greater emphasis on cost savings initiatives. These changing demand patterns could have a material adverse effect on our new contract bookings and results of operations. We continue to monitor this volatility and uncertainty and seek to manage our costs in order to respond to changing conditions. Revenues before reimbursements (net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 were $6.84 billion, compared with $6.69 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, an increase of 2% in U.S. dollars and 9% in local currency. Net revenues for fiscal 2012 were $27.86 billion, compared with $25.51 billion for fiscal 2011, an increase of 9% in U.S. dollars and 11% in local currency. All of our operating groups experienced year over year revenue growth in local currency during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Revenue growth in local currency was very strong in outsourcing and continued to moderate in consulting during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. We expect the level of year over year growth to continue to moderate in the near term and vary across operating groups and geographic regions, with growth in certain areas of our business, offset by lower growth or declines in other areas, particularly in consulting and in Europe. In our consulting business, net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 were $3.74 billion, compared with $3.88 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, a decrease of 4% in U.S. dollars and an increase of 2% in local currency. Net consulting revenues for fiscal 2012 were $15.56 billion, compared with $14.92 billion for fiscal 2011, an increase of 4% in U.S. dollars and 6% in local currency. Four of our five operating groups, including Health & Public Service, Financial Services, Resources and Products, experienced quarterly year over year revenue growth in local currency, while Communications, Media & Technology experienced a significant decline in quarterly year over year revenue. In our consulting business overall, clients are exercising caution by reducing their demand for small projects. In addition, when larger projects are initiated, they are of longer duration and convert to revenue at a slower rate. These trends have led to lower consulting revenue growth and declines in certain areas of our business, and we expect this to continue in the near term. Clients continued to be focused on initiatives designed to deliver cost savings and operational efficiency, as well as projects to integrate their global operations and grow and transform their businesses. We are also experiencing growing demand for our services in emerging technologies, including analytics, cloud computing and mobility. Compared to fiscal 2011, we continued to provide a greater proportion of systems integration consulting through use of lower cost resources in our Global Delivery Network, and we expect this trend to continue. While the business environment remained competitive, pricing was relatively stable, and we saw some improvement in certain areas of our business.In our outsourcing business, net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 were $3.10 billion, compared with $2.81 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, an increase of 10% in U.S. dollars and 18% in local currency. Net outsourcing revenues for fiscal 2012 were $12.30 billion, compared with $10.58 billion for fiscal 2011, an increase of 16% in U.S. dollars and 19% in local currency. All five of our operating groups experienced year over year outsourcing revenue growth in local currency during the 30Table of Contentsfourth quarter of fiscal 2012, led by very significant growth in Financial Services and very strong growth in Products, Communication, Media & Technology and Resources. This strong demand for outsourcing services resulted in a greater proportion of revenues in outsourcing, particularly in Communications, Media & Technology and Financial Services, and this trend is expected to continue. Clients continue to be focused on transforming their operations to improve effectiveness and save costs. Growth in outsourcing was driven by higher volumes, scope and geographic expansions and new work at existing clients, as well as services for new clients. Compared to fiscal 2011, we provided a greater proportion of application outsourcing through use of lower cost resources in our Global Delivery Network.As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues and revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be higher. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues and revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be lower. When compared to fiscal 2011, the U.S. dollar strengthened against many currencies during fiscal 2012. This resulted in unfavorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue results that were approximately 7% and 2% lower than our revenue results in local currency for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2012, respectively. The primary categories of operating expenses include cost of services, sales and marketing and general and administrative costs. Cost of services is primarily driven by the cost of client service personnel, which consists mainly of compensation, subcontractor and other personnel costs, and non payroll outsourcing costs. Cost of services as a percentage of revenues is driven by the prices we obtain for our solutions and services, the utilization of our client service personnel and the level of non payroll costs associated with new outsourcing contracts. Utilization primarily represents the percentage of our consulting professionals time spent on billable work. Utilization for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 was approximately 87%, flat with the third quarter of fiscal 2012, and within our target range. This level of utilization reflects continued strong demand for resources in our Global Delivery Network and in most countries. We continue to hire to meet current and projected future demand.We proactively plan and manage the size and composition of our workforce and take actions as needed to address changes in the anticipated demand for our services, given that payroll costs are the most significant portion of our operating expenses. Based on current and projected future demand, we have increased our headcount, the majority of which serve our clients, to approximately 257,000 as of August 31, 2012, compared with approximately 249,000 as of May 31, 2012 and 236,000 as of August 31, 2011. The year over year increase in our headcount reflects an overall increase in demand for our services, including those delivered through our Global Delivery Network in lower cost locations. Annualized attrition, excluding involuntary terminations, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 was 12%, down from 13% in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and 14% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. We evaluate voluntary attrition, adjust levels of new hiring and use involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with increases or decreases in client demand. In addition, we adjust compensation in certain skill sets and geographies in order to attract and retain appropriate numbers of qualified employees, and we may need to continue to adjust compensation in the future. For the majority of our personnel, compensation increases for fiscal 2012 became effective September 1, 2011. As in prior fiscal years, we strive to adjust pricing and or the mix of resources to reduce the impact of compensation increases on our gross margin. Our ability to grow our revenues and increase our margins could be adversely affected if we are unable to: keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with changes in the types or amounts of services clients are demanding, such as the increase in demand for various outsourcing services or a decrease in demand due to U.S. government spending reductions; deploy our employees globally on a timely basis; manage attrition; recover increases in compensation; and or effectively assimilate and utilize new employees.Gross margin (Net revenues less Cost of services before reimbursable expenses as a percentage of Net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 was 32.9%, compared with 33.1% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Gross margin for fiscal 2012 was 32.3%, compared with 32.9% for fiscal 2011. Gross margin for fiscal 2012 was lower than for fiscal 2011, principally due to higher payroll costs as a percentage of net revenues, including costs associated with integration of acquisitions and investments in offerings, partially offset by higher contract profitability.Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were 19.1% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, compared with 19.3% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were 18.4% for fiscal 2012, compared with 19.3% for fiscal 2011. Sales and marketing costs are driven primarily by compensation costs for business development activities, investment in offerings, and marketing and advertising related activities. General and administrative costs primarily include costs for non client facing personnel, information systems and office space. We continuously monitor these costs and implement cost management actions, as appropriate. These actions include performing a greater proportion of general and administrative activities in lower cost locations. For fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011, sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues decreased 20 basis points, while general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues decreased 60 basis points. These decreases were principally due to growth of these costs at a rate lower than that of net revenues. In addition, during fiscal 2011, we recorded a provision for litigation matters for $75 million, or 0.3% of net revenues, which was partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for client receivables and 31Table of Contentsunbilled services. Our margins could be adversely affected if our cost management actions are not sufficient to maintain sales and marketing and general and administrative costs at or below current levels as a percentage of net revenues.Operating income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 was $940 million, compared with $923 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Operating income for fiscal 2012 was $3,872 million, compared with $3,470 million for fiscal 2011. Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of Net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 was 13.8%, flat with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Operating margin for fiscal 2012 was 13.9%, compared with 13.6% for fiscal 2011.Our Operating income and Earnings per share are also affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations on revenues and costs. Most of our costs are incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues. Where practical, we also seek to manage foreign currency exposure for costs not incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues, such as the cost of our Global Delivery Network, by using currency protection provisions in our customer contracts and through our hedging programs. We seek to manage our costs taking into consideration the residual positive and negative effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on those costs. For more information on our hedging programs, see Note 7 (Derivative Financial Instruments) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Bookings and BacklogNew contract bookings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 were $9.21 billion, with consulting bookings of $4.27 billion and outsourcing bookings of $4.94 billion. New contract bookings for fiscal 2012 were $32.23 billion, with consulting bookings of $16.61 billion and outsourcing bookings of $15.62 billion.We provide information regarding our new contract bookings because we believe doing so provides useful trend information regarding changes in the volume of our new business over time. However, new bookings can vary significantly quarter to quarter depending in part on the timing of the signing of a small number of large outsourcing contracts. Clients continue to seek flexibility by using a phased approach to contracting work. Information regarding our new bookings is not comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues over time. There are no third party standards or requirements governing the calculation of bookings. New contract bookings involve estimates and judgments regarding new contracts as well as renewals, extensions and changes to existing contracts. We do not update our new bookings for material subsequent terminations or reductions related to bookings originally recorded in prior fiscal years. New contract bookings are recorded using then existing foreign currency exchange rates and are not subsequently adjusted for foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice, and some without notice. Accordingly, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize bookings attributable to these contracts as backlog. Normally, if a client terminates a project, the client remains obligated to pay for commitments we have made to third parties in connection with the project, services performed and reimbursable expenses incurred by us through the date of termination.Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. We continually evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions based on available information and experience. Because the use of estimates is inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain of our accounting policies require higher degrees of judgment than others in their application. These include certain aspects of accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes.Revenue RecognitionOur contracts have different terms based on the scope, deliverables and complexity of the engagement, the terms of which frequently require us to make judgments and estimates in recognizing revenues. We have many types of contracts, including time and materials contracts, fixed price contracts and contracts with features of both of these contract types. In addition, some contracts include incentives related to costs incurred, benefits produced or adherence to schedules that may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts. We conduct rigorous reviews prior to signing such contracts to evaluate whether these incentives are reasonably achievable.We recognize revenues from technology integration consulting contracts using the percentage of completion method of accounting, which involves calculating the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared with the total estimated services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Our contracts for technology integration consulting services generally span six months to two years. Estimated revenues used in applying the percentage of completion method include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and estimated costs are subject to revision as the contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements 32Table of Contentsin the periods in which they are first identified. If our estimates indicate that a contract loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated total direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract and are included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued liabilities.Revenues from contracts for non technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials or cost plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned. We consider amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, our efforts, measured by time incurred, typically are provided in less than a year and represent the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non technology integration consulting contracts with fixed fees, we recognize revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered, and are earned. Contingent or incentive revenues relating to non technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts are earned.Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in different countries. In a number of these arrangements, we hire client employees and become responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in which case revenues are recognized when the services are performed and amounts are earned. Revenues from time and materials or cost plus contracts are recognized as the services are performed. In such contracts, our effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from fixed price contracts are recognized on a straight line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Outsourcing contracts can also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts are earned. We continuously review and reassess our estimates of contract profitability. Circumstances that potentially affect profitability over the life of the contract include decreases in volumes of transactions or other inputs/outputs on which we are paid, failure to deliver agreed benefits, variances from planned internal/external costs to deliver our services, and other factors affecting revenues and costs.Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred, with the exception of certain transition costs related to the set up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external costs directly related to transition or set up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set up activities are deferred and recognized as revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. Contract acquisition and origination costs are expensed as incurred. We enter into contracts that may consist of multiple elements. These contracts may include any combination of technology integration consulting services, non technology integration consulting services or outsourcing services described above. Revenues for contracts with multiple elements are allocated based on the lesser of the elements relative selling price or the amount that is not contingent on future delivery of another element. The selling price of each element is determined by obtaining the vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value of each element. VSOE of fair value is based on the price charged when the element is sold separately by the Company on a regular basis and not as part of a contract with multiple elements. If the amount of non contingent revenues allocated to a delivered element accounted for under the percentage of completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non contingent. Revenues are recognized in accordance with our accounting policies for the separate elements when the services have value on a stand alone basis, selling price of the separate elements exists and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in our control. While determining fair value and identifying separate elements require judgment, generally fair value and the separate elements are readily identifiable as we also sell those elements unaccompanied by other elements.Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met. Client prepayments (even if nonrefundable) are deferred and recognized over future periods as services are delivered or performed.33Table of ContentsOur consulting revenues are affected by the number of work days in a fiscal quarter, which in turn is affected by the level of vacation days and holidays. Consequently, since our first and third quarters typically have approximately 5 10% more work days than our second and fourth quarters, our consulting revenues are typically higher in our first and third quarters than in our second and fourth quarters.Net revenues include the margin earned on computer hardware and software resale contracts, as well as revenues from alliance agreements, neither of which is material to us. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out of pocket expenses and third party costs, such as the cost of hardware and software resales. In addition, Reimbursements may include allocations from gross billings to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically identify reimbursable expenses. We report revenues net of any revenue based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue producing transactions.Income TaxesDetermining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities involves judgment. Deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured using enacted tax rates, are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial statement bases of assets and liabilities. As a global company, we calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating current tax exposures in each jurisdiction as well as making judgments regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Tax exposures can involve complex issues and may require an extended period to resolve. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation allowances accordingly. Factors considered in making this determination include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, tax planning strategies and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction in which the tax asset is located. Valuation allowances will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. Changes in the geographic mix or estimated level of annual income before taxes can affect the overall effective tax rate.We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our quarterly operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. In accordance with FASB guidance on uncertainty in income taxes, a change in judgment that impacts the measurement of a tax position taken in a prior year is recognized as a discrete item in the interim period in which the change occurs. In the event there is a significant unusual or infrequent item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is recorded in the interim period in which it occurs.No taxes have been provided on undistributed foreign earnings that are planned to be indefinitely reinvested. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and long term investment requirements, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for withholding taxes may apply, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate. We currently do not foresee any event that would require us to distribute these earnings.As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional taxes. We establish tax liabilities or reduce tax assets for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and supportable under local tax law, we believe we may not succeed in realizing the tax benefit of certain positions if challenged. In evaluating a tax position, we determine whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Our estimate of the ultimate tax liability contains assumptions based on past experiences, judgments about potential actions by taxing jurisdictions as well as judgments about the likely outcome of issues that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions each quarter and adjust the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit or the expiration of a statute of limitations. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of uncertain tax positions are reasonable. However, final determinations of prior year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different from estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period in which that determination is made. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately accounted for uncertain tax positions.Revenues by Segment/Operating GroupOur five reportable operating segments are our operating groups, which are Communications, Media & Technology, Financial Services, Health & Public Service, Products and Resources. Operating groups are managed on the basis of net revenues because our management believes net revenues are a better indicator of operating group performance than revenues. In addition to reporting net revenues by operating group, we also report net revenues by two types of work: consulting and outsourcing, which represent the services sold by our operating groups. Consulting net revenues, which include management and technology consulting and systems integration, reflect a finite, distinct project or set of projects with a defined outcome and typically a defined set of specific 34Table of Contentsdeliverables. Outsourcing net revenues typically reflect ongoing, repeatable services or capabilities provided to transition, run and or manage operations of client systems or business functions.From time to time, our operating groups work together to sell and implement certain contracts. The resulting revenues and costs from these contracts may be apportioned among the participating operating groups. Generally, operating expenses for each operating group have similar characteristics and are subject to the same factors, pressures and challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on the industries served by our operating groups affect revenues and operating expenses within our operating groups to differing degrees. The mix between consulting and outsourcing is not uniform among our operating groups. Local currency fluctuations also tend to affect our operating groups differently, depending on the geographic concentrations and locations of their businesses.While we provide discussion about our results of operations below, we cannot measure how much of our revenue growth in a particular period is attributable to changes in price or volume. Management does not track standard measures of unit or rate volume. Instead, our measures of volume and price are extremely complex, as each of our services contracts is unique, reflecting a customized mix of specific services that does not fit into standard comparability measurements. Pricing for our services is a function of the nature of each service to be provided, the skills required and outcome sought, as well as estimated cost, risk, contract terms and other factors.Results of Operations for Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011Net revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows: Fiscal PercentIncreaseU.S. Dollars PercentIncreaseLocalCurrency Percent of TotalNet Revenues for Fiscal 2012 2011 2012 2011 (in millions of U.S. dollars) OPERATING GROUPS Communications, Media & Technology (1)$5,907 $5,434 9% 11% 21% 22%Financial Services5,843 5,381 9 11 21 21Health & Public Service4,256 3,861 10 11 15 15Products6,563 5,931 11 13 24 23Resources5,275 4,882 8 10 19 19Other19 18 n/m n/m TOTAL NET REVENUES (2)27,862 25,507 9% 11% 100% 100%Reimbursements1,916 1,846 4 TOTAL REVENUES$29,778 $27,353 9% GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS Americas$12,523 $11,271 11% 13% 45% 44%EMEA (3)11,296 10,854 4 8 41 43Asia Pacific4,043 3,383 20 18 14 13TOTAL NET REVENUES (2)$27,862 $25,507 9% 11% 100% 100%TYPE OF WORK Consulting$15,562 $14,924 4% 6% 56% 59%Outsourcing12,300 10,583 16 19 44 41TOTAL NET REVENUES$27,862 $25,507 9% 11% 100% 100% n/m not meaningful(1)On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications & High Tech operating group to Communications, Media & Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change.(2)May not total due to rounding.(3)EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa.35Table of ContentsWe conduct business in the following countries that individually comprised 10% or more of consolidated net revenues within fiscal 2012, 2011 or 2010: Fiscal 2012 2011 2010United States36% 35% 36%United Kingdom9 10 10Net RevenuesRevenue growth in local currency was very strong in outsourcing during fiscal 2012. All five of our operating groups experienced double digit year over year outsourcing revenue growth in local currency during fiscal 2012. Consulting revenue growth in local currency moderated significantly during the second half of fiscal 2012 compared to the first half of fiscal 2012. While Health & Public Service experienced strong growth in consulting revenues in local currency during fiscal 2012, year over year consulting revenue growth in local currency either moderated or declined for all other operating groups in the second half of fiscal 2012.The following net revenues commentary discusses local currency net revenue changes for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011:Operating GroupsCommunications, Media & Technology net revenues increased 11% in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected significant growth, led by Electronics & High Tech in EMEA, principally due to a significant short term increase from one contract. We also experienced outsourcing growth in Communications across all geographic regions. Consulting revenues declined slightly, with growth in the first half of fiscal 2012 offset by contraction during the second half of the fiscal year. For fiscal 2012, consulting revenues reflected a decline in Communications in EMEA and Asia Pacific, partially offset by growth in Media & Entertainment in Americas and Electronics & High Tech in Asia Pacific. Some of our clients, primarily in Communications, continued to exercise caution by reducing and or deferring their investment in consulting, which had a negative impact on our consulting revenues. We expect Communications, Media & Technology net revenues to decline year over year in the near term.Financial Services net revenues increased 11% in local currency. Outsourcing revenues reflected very significant growth, driven by all industry groups in Americas, including the impact of an acquisition in Banking. We also experienced outsourcing growth across all industry groups in Asia Pacific and Capital Markets in EMEA. Consulting revenues reflected modest growth, driven by significant growth in Insurance across all geographic regions, including the impact of an acquisition. This growth was partially offset by declines in Banking in EMEA and Americas and Capital Markets in EMEA. The uncertainty in the banking and capital markets industries impacted our consulting revenue growth during fiscal 2012 and we expect this trend to continue in the near term.Health & Public Service net revenues increased 11% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected strong growth, led by Health across all geographic regions and Public Service in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues reflected strong growth, driven by Health across all geographic regions and Public Service in EMEA and Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues during fiscal 2011 reflected revenues recognized upon favorable resolution of billing holdbacks on certain contracts with United States government agencies. The global uncertainty and challenges in the public sector continue to have an impact on demand in our public service business. This impact may increase if U.S. government spending reductions are implemented.Products net revenues increased 13% in local currency. Consulting revenues increased, driven primarily by growth across all industry groups in Americas and most industry groups in Asia Pacific. By industry group, growth was led by Retail and Industrial Equipment. Outsourcing revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and most industry groups, led by Life Sciences, Air, Freight & Travel Services and Retail.Resources net revenues increased 10% in local currency. Consulting revenues increased, driven by Energy across all geographic regions and Natural Resources in Asia Pacific and EMEA, partially offset by a decline in Natural Resources in Americas. Outsourcing revenues reflected strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and all industry groups, led by Energy and Natural Resources.36Table of ContentsGeographic RegionsAmericas net revenues increased 13% in local currency, led by the United States and Brazil. In general, revenue growth moderated across Americas in the second half of fiscal 2012 compared to the first half of fiscal 2012.EMEA net revenues increased 8% in local currency, driven by growth in Finland, the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands and South Africa. In general, revenue growth moderated across EMEA in the second half of fiscal 2012 compared to the first half of fiscal 2012.Asia Pacific net revenues increased 18% in local currency, driven by Australia, Japan, China, Singapore, South Korea and India.Operating ExpensesOperating expenses for fiscal 2012 were $25,906 million, an increase of $2,024 million, or 8%, over fiscal 2011, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 87.0% from 87.3% during this period. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2012 were $23,991 million, an increase of $1,954 million, or 9%, over fiscal 2011, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 86.1% from 86.4% during this period.Cost of ServicesCost of services for fiscal 2012 was $20,790 million, an increase of $1,824 million, or 10%, over fiscal 2011, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 69.8% from 69.3% during this period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2012 was $18,875 million, an increase of $1,754 million, or 10%, over fiscal 2011, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 67.7% from 67.1% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2012 decreased to 32.3% from 32.9% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2012 was lower than for fiscal 2011, principally due to higher payroll costs as a percentage of net revenues, including costs associated with investments in offerings and acquisitions, partially offset by higher contract profitability.Sales and MarketingSales and marketing expense for fiscal 2012 was $3,303 million, an increase of $209 million, or 7%, over fiscal 2011, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 11.9% from 12.1% during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was due to growth of business development costs at a rate lower than that of net revenues.General and Administrative CostsGeneral and administrative costs for fiscal 2012 were $1,811 million, a decrease of $9 million, or 1%, from fiscal 2011, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 6.5% from 7.1% during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was due to management of these costs at a growth rate lower than that of net revenues. In addition, during fiscal 2011, we recorded a provision for litigation matters for $75 million, or 0.3% of net revenues, which was partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for client receivables and unbilled services.Operating Income and Operating MarginOperating income for fiscal 2012 was $3,872 million, an increase of $401 million, or 12%, over fiscal 2011, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 13.9% from 13.6% during this period. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: Fiscal 2012 2011 OperatingIncome OperatingMargin OperatingIncome OperatingMargin Increase(Decrease) (1) (in millions of U.S. dollars)Communications, Media & Technology (2)$845 14% $728 13% $118Financial Services810 14 898 17 (89)Health & Public Service376 9 318 8 58Products864 13 680 11 184Resources977 19 846 17 130Total$3,872 13.9% $3,470 13.6% $401 (1)May not total due to rounding.(2)On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications & High Tech operating group to Communications, Media & Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change.37Table of ContentsDuring fiscal 2012, the results of each operating group benefited from our management of general and administrative costs at a growth rate lower than that of net revenues. In addition, during fiscal 2011, each operating group recorded a portion of the $75 million provision for litigation matters, partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for client receivables and unbilled services. The commentary below provides additional insight into operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011, exclusive of these impacts.Communications, Media & Technology operating income increased, primarily due to outsourcing revenue growth, principally related to a significant short term increase from one contract.Financial Services operating income decreased, primarily due to a lower proportion of high margin consulting work, costs related to recent acquisitions and higher sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by strong outsourcing revenue growth.Health & Public Service operating income increased, primarily due to revenue growth and lower sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by the negative impact of delivery inefficiencies on a few contracts. Health & Public Service operating margin was impacted by administrative and compliance costs associated with our U.S. Federal practice, and we expect this trend to continue. Health & Public Service profitability could also be impacted if U.S. government spending reductions are implemented.Products operating income increased, primarily due to revenue growth and improved consulting and outsourcing contract profitability.Resources operating income increased, primarily due to strong revenue growth.Interest IncomeInterest income for fiscal 2012 was $43 million, an increase of $1 million, or 4%, over fiscal 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher cash balances.Other Income, netOther income, net for fiscal 2012 was $6 million, a decrease of $11 million from fiscal 2011. The change was driven primarily by lower net foreign exchange gains during fiscal 2012.Provision for Income TaxesThe effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 was 27.6%, compared with 27.3% for fiscal 2011. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2012 included higher expenses for increases in tax reserves and changes in our geographic mix of income, partially offset by higher benefits related to final determinations of prior year tax liabilities.Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling InterestsNet income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some of our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See BusinessOrganizational Structure. The resulting Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary.Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for fiscal 2012 was $271 million, a decrease of $4 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2011. The decrease was due to a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average noncontrolling ownership interest to 9% for fiscal 2012 from 10% for fiscal 2011, partially offset by an increase in Net income of $272 million.Earnings Per ShareDiluted earnings per share were $3.84 for fiscal 2012, compared with $3.39 for fiscal 2011. The $0.45 increase in our earnings per share was due to increases of $0.40 from higher revenues and operating results and $0.08 from lower weighted average shares outstanding. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $0.02 from a higher effective tax rate and $0.01 from lower non operating income, compared with fiscal 2011. Diluted earnings per share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the fiscal 2012 payment of cash dividends. This restatement resulted in a one cent decrease in diluted earnings per share from $3.40 to $3.39 for fiscal 2011. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.38Table of ContentsResults of Operations for Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010Net revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows: Fiscal PercentIncreaseU.S.dollars PercentIncreaseLocalCurrency Percent of TotalNet Revenuesfor Fiscal 2011 2010 2011 2010 (in millions of U.S. dollars) OPERATING GROUPS Communications, Media & Technology (1)$5,434 $4,612 18% 14% 22% 21%Financial Services5,381 4,446 21 18 21 21Health & Public Service3,861 3,581 8 7 15 17Products5,931 4,985 19 16 23 23Resources4,882 3,911 25 21 19 18Other18 15 n/m n/m TOTAL NET REVENUES (2)25,507 21,551 18% 15% 100% 100%Reimbursements1,846 1,544 20 TOTAL REVENUES (2)$27,353 $23,094 18% GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS Americas$11,271 $9,465 19% 17% 44% 44%EMEA10,854 9,583 13 11 43 44Asia Pacific3,383 2,502 35 23 13 12TOTAL NET REVENUES (2)$25,507 $21,551 18% 15% 100% 100%TYPE OF WORK Consulting$14,924 $12,371 21% 17% 59% 57%Outsourcing10,583 9,179 15 13 41 43TOTAL NET REVENUES (2)$25,507 $21,551 18% 15% 100% 100% n/m not meaningful(1)On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications & High Tech operating group to Communications, Media & Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change.(2)May not total due to rounding.Net RevenuesThe following net revenues commentary discusses local currency net revenue changes for fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010:Operating GroupsCommunications, Media & Technology net revenues increased 14% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, with the exception of Electronics & High Tech in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, with the exception of Electronics & High Tech in EMEA.Financial Services net revenues increased 18% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by growth in Banking and Insurance in EMEA and all industry groups in Americas, partially offset by a decline in Banking in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues reflected significant growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, led by Americas and EMEA.Health & Public Service net revenues increased 7% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected growth in Americas and Asia Pacific, with significant growth in Health, partially offset by a decline in Public Service in EMEA. The increase in consulting revenues was significantly impacted by a delivery inefficiency on a consulting contract in Public Service in Americas in fiscal 2010, which negatively affected revenues in that period. Outsourcing revenues increased due to growth in Americas, partially offset by a decrease in Public Service in EMEA and Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues 39Table of Contentsalso reflected revenues recognized upon favorable resolution of billing holdbacks on certain contracts with United States government agencies. In addition, the uncertainty and challenges in the public sector, particularly in the United States, the United Kingdom and several other countries, continued to have a significant impact on demand in our public service business. This had a negative impact on our revenues and new contract bookings in our public service business during fiscal 2011.Products net revenues increased 16% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected significant growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, led by Consumer Goods & Services and Automotive. Outsourcing revenues increased, driven by growth across all geographic regions and most industry groups, led by Retail in Americas and Asia Pacific and Air, Freight & Travel Services in Americas and EMEA.Resources net revenues increased 21% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected very significant growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, led by Natural Resources and Energy. Outsourcing revenues increased, driven by growth in Energy and Natural Resources in Americas and Utilities and Energy in EMEA. Lower client demand for outsourcing services resulted in moderation of outsourcing revenue growth in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and a shift in the mix of work towards consulting. Geographic RegionsAmericas net revenues increased 17% in local currency, led by the United States, Brazil and Canada.EMEA net revenues increased 11% in local currency, driven by growth in local currency in most countries, led by the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, South Africa and Switzerland.Asia Pacific net revenues increased 23% in local currency, led by Japan, Australia, Singapore, China and India.Operating ExpensesOperating expenses for fiscal 2011 were $23,882 million, an increase of $3,703 million, or 18%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 87.3% from 87.4% during this period. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2011 were $22,037 million, an increase of $3,401 million, or 18%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 86.4% from 86.5% during this period.Cost of ServicesCost of services for fiscal 2011 was $18,966 million, an increase of $3,123 million, or 20%, over fiscal 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 69.3% from 68.6% during this period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2011 was $17,120 million, an increase of $2,820 million, or 20%, over fiscal 2010, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 67.1% from 66.4% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2011 decreased to 32.9% from 33.6% during this period. Our contract profitability for fiscal 2011 was lower than the same period in fiscal 2010, as we continued our efforts to absorb higher annual compensation increases and subcontractor costs with improved pricing and a more efficient resource mix. Gross margin also included the impact of higher recruiting and training costs from the addition of a large number of new employees to meet demand.Sales and MarketingSales and marketing expense for fiscal 2011 was $3,094 million, an increase of $436 million, or 16%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 12.1% from 12.3% during this period.General and Administrative CostsGeneral and administrative costs for fiscal 2011 were $1,820 million, an increase of $152 million, or 9%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 7.1% from 7.7% during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to management of these costs at a growth rate lower than that of net revenues, as well as a reduction in the allowance for client receivables and unbilled services due to better than expected bad debt experience, partially offset by a provision for litigation matters of $75 million.40Table of ContentsOperating Income and Operating MarginOperating income for fiscal 2011 was $3,470 million, an increase of $556 million, or 19%, over fiscal 2010, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 13.6% from 13.5% during this period. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: Fiscal Increase (1) 2011 2010 OperatingIncome OperatingMargin OperatingIncome OperatingMargin (in millions of U.S. dollars)Communications, Media & Technology (2)$728 13% $615 13% $113Financial Services898 17 772 17 126Health & Public Service318 8 287 8 32Products680 11 592 12 88Resources846 17 649 17 197Total$3,470 13.6% $2,915 13.5% $556 (1)May not total due to rounding.(2)On September 1, 2011, the Company renamed the Communications & High Tech operating group to Communications, Media & Technology. No amounts have been reclassified in any period in connection with this name change.During fiscal 2011, the results of each operating group benefited from our management of general and administrative costs at a growth rate lower than that of our net revenues, as well as a reduction in the bad debt reserve. In addition, in fiscal 2011 each operating group experienced higher recruiting and training costs from the addition of a large number of new employees to meet demand and recorded a portion of the $75 million provision for litigation matters. The commentary below provides additional insight into operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010, exclusive of these impacts.Communications & High Tech operating income increased, primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by lower contract profitability.Financial Services operating income increased, primarily due to very strong revenue growth, partially offset by lower outsourcing contract profitability.Health & Public Service operating income increased due to revenue growth, including revenues recognized upon favorable resolution of billing holdbacks on certain contracts with United States government agencies, partially offset by lower outsourcing contract profitability. Fiscal 2010 operating income included the negative impact of inefficient delivery on a few consulting contracts in Public Service.Products operating income increased, primarily driven by revenue growth, partially offset by lower contract profitability. Products operating results in both periods were also impacted by expected lower margins on certain contracts.Resources operating income increased, primarily driven by significant consulting revenue growth.Interest IncomeInterest income for fiscal 2011 was $41 million, an increase of $11 million, or 37%, over fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to higher interest rates and cash balances.Other Income (Expense), netOther income (expense), net for fiscal 2011 was $17 million, an increase of $32 million over fiscal 2010. The change was driven by net foreign exchange gains during fiscal 2011, compared with net foreign exchange losses during fiscal 2010.Provision for Income TaxesThe effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was 27.3%, compared with 29.3% for fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate was lower in fiscal 2011 due to a number of factors that impacted our geographic mix of income, partially offset by a net increase in reserves related to ongoing tax audits.41Table of ContentsNet Income Attributable to Noncontrolling InterestsNet income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some of our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See BusinessOrganizational Structure. The resulting Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary.Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for fiscal 2011 was $276 million, a decrease of $4 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2010. The decrease was due to a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average noncontrolling ownership interest to 10% for fiscal 2011 from 13% for fiscal 2010, partially offset by an increase in Net income of $493 million.Earnings Per ShareDiluted earnings per share were $3.39 for fiscal 2011, compared with $2.66 for fiscal 2010. The $0.73 increase in our earnings per share was due to increases of $0.42 from higher revenues and operating results in local currency, $0.10 from lower weighted average shares outstanding, $0.09 from a lower effective tax rate, $0.08 from favorable foreign currency exchange rates and $0.04 from higher non operating income, compared with fiscal 2010. Diluted earnings per share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the fiscal 2012 payment of cash dividends. This restatement resulted in a one cent decrease in diluted earnings per share from $3.40 to $3.39 for fiscal 2011. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOur primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, available cash reserves and debt capacity available under various credit facilities. In addition, we could raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings. We may use our available or additional funds to, among other things:facilitate purchases, redemptions and exchanges of shares and pay dividends;acquire complementary businesses or technologies;take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; ordevelop new services and solutions.As of August 31, 2012, cash and cash equivalents was $6.6 billion, compared with $5.7 billion as of August 31, 2011.Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in our Consolidated Cash Flows Statements, are summarized in the following table: Fiscal 2012 2011 2010 2012 to 2011Change (1) (in millions of U.S. dollars)Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities$4,257 $3,442 $3,092 $815Investing activities(535) (703) (274) 168Financing activities(2,559) (2,122) (2,429) (437)Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents(223) 246 (92) (469)Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (1)$939 $863 $297 $77 (1)May not total due to rounding.Operating activities: The $815 million increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher net income and changes in operating assets and liabilities, including higher collections on net client balances (receivables from clients, current and non current unbilled services and deferred revenues).Investing activities: The $168 million decrease in cash used was primarily due to decreased spending on business acquisitions. For additional information, see Note 6 (Business Combinations and Goodwill) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Financing activities: The $437 million increase in cash used was primarily due to an increase in cash dividends paid. For additional information, see Note 13 (Material Transactions Affecting Shareholders Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.42Table of ContentsWe believe that our available cash balances and the cash flows expected to be generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our current and planned working capital and investment needs for the next twelve months, including a discretionary contribution to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans that is expected to be funded during the first half of fiscal 2013. We also believe that our longer term working capital and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities.Borrowing FacilitiesAs of August 31, 2012, we had the following borrowing facilities, including the issuance of letters of credit, to support general working capital purposes: FacilityAmount BorrowingsUnderFacilities (in millions of U.S. dollars)Syndicated loan facility (1)$1,000 $Separate, uncommitted, unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities (2)518 Local guaranteed and non guaranteed lines of credit (3)125 Total$1,643 $ (1)On October 31, 2011, we replaced our $1.2 billion syndicated loan facility maturing on July 31, 2012 with a $1.0 billion syndicated loan facility maturing on October 31, 2016. This facility provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including the issuance of letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. This facility requires us to: (1) limit liens placed on our assets to (a) liens incurred in the ordinary course of business (subject to certain qualifications) and (b) other liens securing obligations not to exceed 30% of our consolidated assets; and (2) maintain a debt to cash flow ratio not exceeding 1.75 to 1.00. We continue to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. The facility is subject to annual commitment fees. As of August 31, 2012, we had no borrowings under the facility. As of August 31, 2011, we had no borrowings under the prior facility.(2)We maintain separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local currency financing for the majority of our operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of August 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no borrowings under these facilities.(3)We also maintain local guaranteed and non guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access our global facilities. As of August 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no borrowings under these various facilities.Under the borrowing facilities described above, we had an aggregate of $164 million and $178 million of letters of credit outstanding as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition, we had total outstanding debt of $0.03 million and $4.42 million as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.43Table of ContentsShare Purchases and RedemptionsThe Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for our publicly announced open market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees. As of August 31, 2012, our aggregate available authorization was $4,179 million for our publicly announced open market share purchase and these other share purchase programs.Our share purchase activity during fiscal 2012 was as follows: Accenture plc Class AOrdinary Shares Accenture SCA Class ICommon Shares and Accenture CanadaHoldings Inc. Exchangeable Shares Shares Amount Shares Amount (in millions of U.S. dollars, except share amounts)Open market share purchases (1)30,119,187 $1,724 $Other share purchase programs 2,303,720 138Other purchases (2)4,196,449 236 Total34,315,636 $1,960 2,303,720 $138 (1)We conduct a publicly announced, open market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held as treasury shares by Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to our employees.(2)During fiscal 2012, as authorized under our various employee equity share plans, we acquired Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans. These purchases of shares in connection with employee share plans do not affect our aggregate available authorization for our publicly announced open market share purchase and the other share purchase programs.We intend to continue to use a significant portion of cash generated from operations for share repurchases during fiscal 2013. The number of shares ultimately repurchased under our open market share purchase program may vary depending on numerous factors, including, without limitation, share price and other market conditions, our ongoing capital allocation planning, the levels of cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, general economic and or business conditions, and board and management discretion. Additionally, as these factors may change over the course of the year, the amount of share repurchase activity during any particular period cannot be predicted and may fluctuate from time to time. Share repurchases may be made from time to time through open market purchases, in respect of purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares, through the use of Rule 10b5 1 plans and or by other means. The repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time, without notice.Other Share RedemptionsDuring fiscal 2012, we issued 4,622,450 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to our registration statement on Form S 3 (the registration statement). The registration statement allows us, at our option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares held by senior executives, former executives and their permitted transferees.Subsequent DevelopmentOn September 24, 2012, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi annual cash dividend of $0.81 per share on our Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on October 12, 2012. Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA to declare a semi annual cash dividend of $0.81 per share on its Class I common shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on October 9, 2012. Both dividends are payable on November 15, 2012.44Table of ContentsObligations and CommitmentsAs of August 31, 2012, we had the following obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts, contractual obligations and commercial commitments: Payments due by periodContractual Cash Obligations (1)(2) Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years (in millions of U.S. dollars)Long term debt $ $ $ $ $Operating leases 2,118 443 639 387 649Retirement obligations (3) 113 12 23 23 55Purchase obligations and other commitments (4) 213 78 102 33 Total $2,444 $533 $764 $443 $704 (1)The liability related to unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. For additional information, refer to Note 9 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.(2)In fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. As of August 31, 2012, the remaining liability for reorganization costs was $269 million, of which $258 million was classified as Other accrued liabilities because expirations of statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months. The reorganization liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. Timing of the resolution of tax audits or the initiation of additional litigation and or criminal tax proceedings may delay final resolution. Final settlement will result in a payment on a final settlement and or recording a reorganization cost or benefit in our Consolidated Income Statement. For additional information, refer to Note 3 (Reorganization Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.(3)Amounts represent projected payments under certain unfunded retirement plans for former pre incorporation partners. Given these plans are unfunded, we pay these benefits directly. These plans were eliminated for active partners after May 15, 2001.(4)Other commitments include, among other things, information technology, software support and maintenance obligations, as well as other obligations in the ordinary course of business that we cannot cancel or where we would be required to pay a termination fee in the event of cancellation. Amounts shown do not include recourse that we may have to recover termination fees or penalties from clients.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsIn the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. These arrangements with clients can include provisions whereby we have joint and several liability in relation to the performance of certain contractual obligations along with third parties also providing services and products for a specific project. Indemnification provisions are also included in arrangements under which we agree to hold the indemnified party harmless with respect to third party claims related to such matters as title to assets sold or licensed or certain intellectual property rights.Typically, we have contractual recourse against third parties for certain payments made by us in connection with arrangements where third party nonperformance has given rise to the clients claim. Payments by us under any of the arrangements described above are generally conditioned on the client making a claim which may be disputed by us typically under dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular arrangement. The limitations of liability under these arrangements may be expressly limited or may not be expressly specified in terms of time and or amount.For arrangements with unspecified limitations, we cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement.To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 15 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.45Table of ContentsRecently Adopted Accounting PronouncementsIn March 2012, the Company adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) on fair value measurements. The guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions, i.e. an exit price. Additionally, any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 asset valuation classifications must be disclosed, including the reasons for the transfers. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information related to the three level hierarchy of fair value measurements, see Note 10 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.New Accounting PronouncementsIn June 2011, the FASB issued guidance which requires companies to present net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive statements. The Company will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2013.ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKAll of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading.Foreign Currency RiskWe are exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business. We hedge material cash flow exposures when feasible using forward contracts. These instruments are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk. Credit risk is managed through careful selection and ongoing evaluation of the financial institutions utilized as counterparties.Certain of these hedge positions are undesignated hedges of balance sheet exposures such as intercompany loans and typically have maturities of less than one year. These hedgesprimarily U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Euro, U.S. dollar/Australian dollar, U.S. dollar/Singapore dollar, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso, U.S. dollar/Japanese yen, U.S. dollar/Swiss franc and U.S. dollar/Norwegian kroneare intended to offset remeasurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Income Statement. Additionally, we have hedge positions that are designated cash flow hedges of certain intercompany charges relating to our Global Delivery Network. These hedgesU.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso, U.K. pound/Indian rupee and Euro/Indian rupee, which typically have maturities not exceeding three yearsare intended to partially offset the impact of foreign currency movements on future costs relating to resources supplied by our Global Delivery Network.For designated cash flow hedges, gains and losses currently recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss will be reclassified into earnings at the time when certain anticipated intercompany charges are accrued as Cost of Services. As of August 31, 2012, it was anticipated that $28 million of the net losses, net of tax currently recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss will be reclassified into Cost of Services within the next 12 months.We use sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have on the fair value of our hedge portfolio. The sensitivity of the hedge portfolio is computed based on the market value of future cash flows as affected by changes in exchange rates. This sensitivity analysis represents the hypothetical changes in value of the hedge position and does not reflect the offsetting gain or loss on the underlying exposure. A 10% change in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar (or other base currency of the hedge if not a U.S. dollar hedge) with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a change in the fair value of our hedge instruments of approximately $402 million and $358 million as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Interest Rate RiskThe interest rate risk associated with our borrowing and investing activities as of August 31, 2012 is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. While we may do so in the future, we have not used derivative financial instruments to alter the interest rate characteristics of our investment holdings or debt instruments.Equity Price RiskThe equity price risk associated with our marketable equity securities that are subject to market price volatility is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 46Table of Contents
