ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from pages 4 through 16 of the Form 8 K filed on February 24, 2004 and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Information Regarding Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10 K includes forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements regarding EOGs future financial position, business strategy, budgets, reserve information, projected levels of production, projected costs and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward looking statements. EOG typically uses words such as "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "strategy," "intend," "plan," "target" and "believe" or the negative of those terms or other variations of them or by comparable terminology to identify its forward looking statements. In particular, statements, express or implied, concerning future operating results, the ability to replace or increase reserves or to increase production, or the ability to generate income or cash flows are forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are not guarantees of performance. Although EOG believes its expectations reflected in forward looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements include, among others: the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for crude oil, natural gas and related products, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; the timing and impact of liquefied natural gas imports and changes in demand or prices for ammonia or methanol; the extent and effect of any hedging activities engaged in by EOG; the extent of EOGs success in discovering, developing, marketing and producing reserves and in acquiring oil and gas properties; the accuracy of reserve estimates, which by their nature involve the exercise of professional judgment and may therefore be imprecise; political developments around the world, acts of war and terrorism and responses to these acts; and financial market conditions. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events anticipated by EOGs forward looking statements might not occur. EOG undertakes no obligations to update or revise its forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk EOGs exposure to interest rate risk and commodity price risk is discussed respectively in the Financing and Outlook sections of the "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity," which is incorporated by reference from pages 10 through 14 of the Form 8 K filed on February 24, 2004 and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. 
 
