FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20040427060053.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
(Information furnished in this Item 7 is furnished pursuant to Item 12.)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
See Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 27, 2004, the Company issued a news release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ending March 31, 2004, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. and B.6. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Following the issuance of the news release and the filing of this current report on Form 8-K, the Company will hold a conference call on Tuesday, April 27 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time, 7:30 a.m. Central time, to discuss the earnings announcement. This scheduled conference call was previously announced on March 17, 2004. To access the call, which is open to the public, please call the conference call operator at 800-347-2469, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." The conference call will also be webcast by CCBN. To access the webcast, go to www.bakerhughes.com/investor and select "News Releases", then click on "Conference Calls." A replay of the call and the webcast will be available through Tuesday, May 11, 2004. The number for the replay of the call is 706-645-9291 and the access code is 6273374. The replay of the webcast will also be available on the Company's website at www.bakerhughes.com/investor in the "News Releases" section under "Conference Calls".
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") that were included in the news release, certain information discussed in the news release and to be discussed on the conference call could be considered non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G). Any non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, or superior to, net income (loss), income (loss) from continuing operations, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. GAAP reconciliations of such information to the closest GAAP measures are included in the news release and can be found on the Company's website at www.bakerhughes.com/investor in the Financial Information section under the heading "Impact of Non-Operational Items" and in the applicable earnings releases under the "Earnings Releases" heading.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Baker Hughes Announces First Quarter Results
HOUSTON, Texas  April 27, 2004. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE, PCX, EBS) announced today that, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2004 was $95.3 million or $0.29 per share (diluted), up 90% compared to $50.1 million or $0.15 per share (diluted) for the first quarter of 2003, and down 11% compared to $106.6 million or $0.32 per share (diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2003.
Net income for the first quarter of 2004 was $94.6 million or $0.28 per share (diluted) compared to $44.5 million or $0.13 per share (diluted) for the first quarter of 2003 and $101.6 million or $0.30 per share (diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2003.
Operating profit is a non-GAAP measure comprised of income from continuing operations excluding the impact of certain non-operational items. The company did not have any such non-operational items for exclusion in the first quarter of 2004, the first quarter of 2003 or the fourth quarter of 2003. Operating profit was the same as income from continuing operations for the three periods referenced in this news release. The company believes that operating profit is useful to investors because it is a consistent measure of the underlying results of the company's business. Furthermore, management uses operating profit internally as a measure of the performance of the company's operations. Reconciliation of GAAP and operating results for applicable historical periods can be found on the company's website at www.bakerhughes.com/investor.
Revenue for the first quarter of 2004 was $1,398.9 million, up 17% compared to $1,200.1 million for the first quarter of 2003 and down 3% compared to $1,439.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2003.
Michael E. Wiley, Baker Hughes' chairman and chief executive officer said, "We are pleased with our strong performance this quarter. Operating profits were up 90% compared to the first quarter a year ago and all of our divisions increased revenues and profits year over year. Revenues from the North America land market, Latin America, China, Africa, and Russia were strong in the first quarter, more than offsetting disappointing activity in the Gulf of Mexico."
Commenting on the outlook for 2004 Mr. Wiley continued, "We have increased our guidance for 2004 revenue and earnings. We expect strong activity in the North American land market to continue, as well as growth in international markets, including Russia, the Caspian, the Middle East and Latin America. As a result of activity and pricing improvements, margins are expected to improve throughout the year."
 
Financial Flexibility
In September 2002, the company's Board of Directors authorized the company to repurchase up to $275.0 million of its common stock. During the first quarter of 2004, the company did not purchase any shares. In total, the company has purchased approximately 8.1 million shares at a cost of $230.5 million and has authorization remaining to purchase up to $44.5 million in stock. During the first quarter of 2004, debt decreased $32.5 million to $1,451.9 million, and cash increased to $155.7 million. Capital expenditures in the first quarter were $82.5 million compared to depreciation and amortization of $93.7 million. Dividend payments were $38.2 million.
 
 
Calculation of EBIT and EBITDA (non-GAAP measures):
1
 
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
 
Segment Highlights
Operational highlights for the three months ended March 31, 2004, March 31, 2003 and December 31, 2003 are detailed below. WesternGeco is our seismic joint venture with Schlumberger Limited. All results are unaudited and shown in millions.
Oilfield Operations Segment
Unless otherwise noted, all comments in this section refer to our Oilfield Operations, excluding WesternGeco.
The following table details the percentage change in revenue in the March 2004 quarter compared to the March 2003 quarter and December 2003 quarter.
Revenue for the first quarter of 2004 increased 17% compared to the first quarter of 2003 and decreased 3% compared to the fourth quarter of 2003. Each division reported increased revenues in the first quarter of 2004 compared to the first quarter of 2003. Centrilift improved the most year over year with a strong increase in revenue
 
from Latin America  particularly in Mexico, Venezuela, Ecuador and Colombia. Baker Petrolite revenue increased 3% and Baker Atlas and Hughes Christensen revenues were flat compared to the fourth quarter of 2003. Seasonal export orders, which tend to occur in the latter half of the calendar year, impacted sequential performance at every division.
The non-GAAP measure of pre-tax operating margin, which is operating profit before tax divided by revenue, was 14.6% for the first quarter of 2004 compared to 15.1% in the fourth quarter of 2003 and 11.8% for the first quarter a year ago. Operating margins improved at every division compared to the first quarter of 2003. Hughes Christensen's operating margin improved and Baker Petrolite's operating margin was unchanged compared to the fourth quarter of 2003. The operating margin at INTEQ was below 10% in the first quarter of 2004.
Corporate, Net Interest and Other
Corporate, net interest and other expenses were $68.3 million in the March 2004 quarter, up $7.6 million from the March 2003 quarter and up $6.7 million from the December 2003 quarter. The increase in the March 2004 quarter compared to the March 2003 quarter was primarily from increased costs associated with our focus on compliance, including our Sarbanes-Oxley implementation, legal investigations, and increased staffing in our legal, compliance and audit groups. The increase in the March 2004 quarter compared to the December 2003 quarter was primarily the result of reduced gains from foreign currency transactions in the March 2004 quarter, combined with lower legal and investigation costs in the December 2003 quarter.
Outlook
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. Factors affecting these forward-looking statements are detailed below under the section titled "Forward-Looking Statements" in this news release. These statements do not include the potential impact of any acquisition, disposition, merger, joint venture or other transaction that could occur in the future. Statements regarding WesternGeco are based on information provided by WesternGeco and, therefore, are subject to the accuracy of that information. Additionally, forward-looking statements relating to WesternGeco are also subject to the factors listed under "Forward-Looking Statements" in this news release.
 
Conference Call
The company has scheduled a conference call today to discuss the results of this earnings announcement. The call will begin at 8:30 A.M. Eastern time, 7:30 A.M. Central time on April 27, 2004. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at 800-374-2469, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay will be available through Tuesday, May 11, 2004. The number for the replay is 706-645-9291 and the access code is 6273374. The call and replay will also be webcast on www.bakerhughes.com/investor.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release, including on the conference call announced herein) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words "expect," "expected," "will," "plans," "planning," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
General Outlook  Oilfield Operations Segment: Baker Hughes' expectation regarding its outlook for its oilfield businesses (including, without limitation, the company's oilfield operations), changes in profitability and growth in those businesses and the oil and gas industry are only its forecasts regarding these matters. These forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which are affected by the following factors: the level of petroleum industry exploration and production expenditures; drilling rig and oil and gas industry manpower and equipment availability; the company's ability to implement and effect price increases for its products and services; the company's ability to control its costs; the availability of sufficient manufacturing capacity and subcontracting capacity at forecasted costs to meet the company's revenue goals; the effect of competition, particularly the ability of the company to introduce new technology on its forecasted schedule and at its forecasted cost; the ability of the company's competitors to capture market share; the company's ability to retain or increase its market share; potential impairment of long-lived assets; world economic conditions; the price of, and the demand for, crude oil and natural gas; drilling activity; seasonal and other weather conditions, such as hurricanes, that affect the demand for energy, and severe weather conditions that affect exploration and production activities; the legislative and regulatory environment in the United States and other countries in which the company operates; outcome of government and internal investigations and legal proceedings; changes in environmental regulations; unexpected, adverse outcomes or material increases in liability with respect to sites where the company has been named as a potentially responsible party; the discovery of new environmental sites; the discharge of hazardous materials or hydrocarbons into the environment; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") policy and the adherence by OPEC
 
nations to their OPEC production quotas; war, military action or extended period of international conflict, particularly involving the United States, Middle East or other major petroleum-producing or consuming regions; any future acts of war, armed conflicts or terrorist activities; civil unrest or in-country security concerns where the company operates; expropriation; the development of technology by Baker Hughes or its competitors that lowers overall finding and development costs; new laws and regulations that could have a significant impact on the future operations and conduct of all businesses; labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations; the condition of the capital and equity markets in general; adverse foreign exchange fluctuations and adverse changes in the capital markets in international locations where the company operates; and the timing of any of the foregoing.
Oilfield Pricing Changes: Baker Hughes' expectations regarding pricing changes for its products and services are only its expectations regarding pricing. Actual pricing changes could be substantially different from the company's expectations, which are affected by many of the factors listed above in "General Outlook  Oilfield Operations Segment," as well as existing legal and contractual commitments to which the company is subject.
Baker Hughes is a leading provider of drilling, formation evaluation, completion and production products and services to the worldwide oil and gas industry.


