FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20040908160832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 7, 2004, the Company issued a news release announcing the Company's presentation at the Lehman Brothers CEO Energy/Power Conference to be held on September 9, 2004 and providing information on how investors could access the presentation on the Company's website. A copy of the news release is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Baker Hughes to Present at Lehman Brothers CEO Energy/Power Conference
HOUSTON, Texas. September 7, 2004 Baker Hughes Incorporated (NYSE:BHI) announced today that James R. (Rod) Clark, Baker Hughes' president and chief operating officer, will present at the Lehman Brothers CEO Energy/Power Conference in New York City, New York on Thursday, September 9, 2004 at 9:00 a.m., eastern daylight time. A copy of Mr. Clark's presentation will be available at http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor/resources/presentations.htm within 24 hours of the presentation.
If you would like to listen to Mr. Clark's presentation during the conference, please log on to the following website: http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor/resources/presentations.htm. If you would like to listen to a replay of the presentation, it will be available immediately after the live broadcast and archived through Thursday, September 16, 2004 at 6:00 p.m., eastern standard time. Use the same website address above to access the replay.
Forward-Looking Statements
The presentation referenced in this news release and any oral statements made in connection with the presentation may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. Additional information and risk factors are contained in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 and other filings with the SEC about the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be different than those in our presentation. The company's SEC filings can be viewed at www.bakerhughes.com. The company assumes no responsibility to update any of the information referenced in this news release.
Baker Hughes is a leading provider of drilling, formation evaluation, completion and production products and services to the worldwide oil and gas industry.


