FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20040824172637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5.04  Temporary Suspension of Trading under Registrant's Employee benefit Plans.
On August 24, 2004, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") sent a notice to its directors and executive officers, informing them that each of the Baker Hughes Incorporated Thrift Plan and the Baker Hughes Incorporated Prior Pension Plan (each a "Plan" and, collectively, the "Plans") are changing its record keeper. As a result of these changes, a blackout period is expected to be in effect beginning on Friday, September 24, 2004 at 3:00 pm., CDT, and is expected to end at approximately 7:00 a.m., CDT, on Monday, September 27, 2004. During this blackout period, Plan participants will be unable to direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts, or obtain a loan, distribution or hardship withdrawal from their respective Plan, and directors and executive officers of the Company will be prohibited from purchasing, selling or otherwise acquiring or transferring certain equity securities of the Company. The notice was provided pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Regulation BTR ("Blackout Trading Restriction"). A copy of the notice is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
On August 24, 2004, the registrant received the notice required by Section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employment Retirement Security Act of 1974.
A security holder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, the actual beginning and ending dates of the blackout period by contacting the Plan Administrator.
During the blackout period and for a period of two years after the ending date of the blackout period, inquiries regarding the blackout period may be directed to the Plan Administrator of the Company's Benefit Plans, 3900 Essex Lane, Houston, Texas 77027, telephone: (713) 439-8684.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     The purpose of this notice is to inform you that the Baker Hughes Incorporated Thrift Plan and the Baker Hughes Incorporated Prior Pension Plan (collectively, the "") will be entering a blackout period on Friday, September 24, 2004 at approximately 3 p.m. Central Daylight Savings time, due to a record keeper conversion from the Northern Trust Retirement Consulting system ("to Hewitt Associates LLC (""). The blackout period is anticipated to end on Monday, September 27, 2004 at approximately 7 a.m. Central Daylight Savings time. During the blackout period, participants in the Plans will not be able to direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts, obtain a loan, or obtain a distribution or withdrawal. This includes participants' investments in the Baker Hughes Incorporated Common Stock Fund, which invests primarily in Baker Hughes Incorporated Common Stock.
Plans
Northern Trust")
Hewitt
If the transition does not occur as planned, the end of the blackout period could be delayed beyond Monday, September 27, 2004.
     The Securities and Exchange Commission ("") has implemented rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (P.L. 107-204) (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") which apply to 401(k) plan blackout periods. Generally, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act prohibits directors and executive officers of an issuer from trading in the issuer's equity securities during certain periods during which the issuer's employees are unable to purchase or sell issuer equity securities held in 401(k) or similar plans. These periods are commonly referred to as "blackout periods." Because you are a director or executive officer of Baker Hughes Incorporated (the ""), please be aware that during the blackout period for the Plans you will be prohibited from purchasing, selling or otherwise acquiring or transferring shares of common stock of the Company or any related derivative security (such as an option) if you acquired such stock or security in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer with the Company. You should note that there is a presumption that any securities sold during a blackout period are not exempt from the rule (that is, the individual corporate insider bears the burden of proving that the securities were not "acquired in connection with service or employment").
SEC
Company
     Violations of the insider trading prohibition will allow an issuer or a security holder acting on behalf of an issuer to bring an action to recover the profits realized by the director or executive officer. In addition, the SEC may bring an action, including civil injunction proceedings, cease-and-desist actions, civil penalties and all other remedies available to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including, in some cases, criminal penalties.
 
     Please be aware that on August 24, 2004, a notice will be mailed to all current and former participants in the Plans to inform them of the blackout period. This meets the 30-day Sarbanes-Oxley Act advance notice requirement for all Plan participants.
     While we anticipate a smooth transition, you will be notified in the unlikely event that an extension of the blackout period is needed. If you have any questions concerning this notice, you should contact Sandy Alford at (713) 439-8673.


