FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20041217060113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 27, 2004, the Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") Board of Directors authorized a one-time payment of $10,000 to Mr. Anthony G. Fernandes, a Director of the Company, for special recognition of his serving as Chairman of the Special Committee of the Board of Directors. As Chairman of the Special Committee of the Board of Directors, Mr. Fernandes led the Committee in the selection process of a candidate for Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
On October 27, 2004, the Company's Board of Directors approved the following compensation to be paid to the Company's non-employee directors effective as of January 1, 2005:
     *Restricted Stock Awarded 50% in January and 50% in July of each year;
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On December 3, 2004, Mr. James R. Clark, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, entered into a Sales Plan with Banc One Securities Corporation ("Sales Plan"). This Sales Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Sales Plan covers the proposed sale of up to 19,355 shares of the Company's Common Stock during the period commmencing on March 17, 2005 and ending March 17, 2006, unless terminated earlier under certain conditions.
The Board of Directors of the Company currently intends to present in the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders a proposal to amend the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation in order to eliminate the provisions that provide for the classification of the Board of Directors.
Item 8.01 Other Events
We previously reported that we received a subpoena from a grand jury in the Southern District of New York regarding goods and services delivered by us to Iraq from 1995 through 2003. Recently, we received a request from the Securities and Exchange Commission to provide a written statement and certain information regarding our participation in the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program. We are in the process of responding to both the subpoena and the order. Other companies are believed to have received both similar subpoenas and similar orders.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


