FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20040903091811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 2, 2004, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") delivered individual Change in Control Severance Agreements (the "Agreement") to the following executive officers:
The Agreement defines the benefits the executive officer would receive in connection with certain change in control, or a potential change in control, events coupled with the executive's loss of employment. If eligible, the executive officer would receive certain benefits, including a lump sum payment based on three times a salary and bonus formula, continuation of health and insurance benefits for 36 months, a payment for incentive and benefit plans participation and a gross-up payment in respect of excise taxes. The foregoing description of the Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the applicable Agreement which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q or the quarter ended September 30, 2004.
In connection with the Agreement, the Company has given notice of non-extension of the individual Severance Agreements previously entered into between the Company and James R. Clark, Alan R. Crain, Jr., G. Stephen Finley, William P. Faubel, Edwin C. Howell, Greg Nakanishi and Douglas J. Wall, all of which agreements will expire at the end of their current term, December 31, 2005.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Please see Item 1.01. On September 3, 2004, the Company issued a news release regarding its voluntary odd-lot program, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference.
(Information furnished in this Item 9.01 is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01.)
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Baker Hughes Announces Odd-Lot Program
September 3, 2004. Houston, Texas  Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI-NYSE) announced the commencement of a voluntary sale program (also known as an odd-lot program) for stockholders owning fewer than 100 shares of Baker Hughes common stock. The shares will be sold on the open market by the program's administrator, Mellon Investor Services LLC.
Information about the odd-lot program, including how to participate, calculation of the sales price, and processing fees, is expected to be mailed directly to eligible stockholders of record as of September 3, 2004. The program is not conditioned on a receipt of a minimum number of tenders and is expected to expire on October 18, 2004, unless extended by the company. Baker Hughes is not recommending that any odd-lot holder sell his or her shares, and Baker Hughes encourages each odd-lot holder to make his or her own decision as to whether to participate in this voluntary program.
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The words "expected to be" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our expectations with regard to the odd-lot program are subject to various risk factors and conditions. These forward-looking statements are also affected by the risk factors described in our Annual Report on form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and those set forth from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no responsibility to update any of the information referenced in this news release.
Baker Hughes is a leading provider of drilling, formation evaluation, completion and production products and services to the worldwide oil and gas industry.


