FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20050228215447.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 28, 2005, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") entered into an Indemnification Agreement and a Change in Control Severance Agreement, each effective February 28, 2005, with the following:
On February 28, 2005, the Company entered into an Indemnification Agreement with each of Messrs. Beaver, Butero and Craighead, which requires the Company to indemnify Messrs. Beaver, Butero and Craighead against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as a Vice President of the Company, to advance their expenses incurred as a result of a proceeding as to which they may be indemnified and to cover such person under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policy the Company chooses to maintain. The Indemnification Agreement is intended to provide indemnification rights to the fullest extent permitted under applicable indemnification rights statutes in the State of Delaware and shall be in addition to any rights Messrs. Beaver, Butero and Craighead may have under the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and applicable law.
The Company and Messrs. Beaver, Butero and Craighead have each entered into a Change in Control Severance Agreement effective as of February 28, 2005. The Change in Control Severance Agreement defines the benefits Messrs. Beaver, Butero and Craighead would receive in connection with certain change in control, or a potential change in control, events coupled with their loss of employment. If eligible, Messrs. Beaver, Butero and Craighead would receive certain benefits, including a lump sum payment based on three times a salary and bonus formula, continuation of health and insurance benefits for 36 months, a payment for incentive and benefit plans participation and a gross-up payment in respect of excise taxes.
The foregoing descriptions of the Indemnification Agreement and the Change in Control Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the applicable agreements, forms of which agreements were filed as exhibits to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, respectively.
Effective February 28, 2005, Mr. Trevor M. Burgess, Vice President of the Company and President of the Company's Hughes Christensen division, left the Company.
Table of Contents
On February 28, 2005, Mr. David H. Barr was appointed Group President, Drilling and Evaluations of the Company. He also is a Vice President of the Company. Mr. Barr previously was President of the Company's Baker Atlas division.
On February 28, 2005, Mr. Douglas J. Wall was appointed Group President, Completions and Production of the Company. He also is a Vice President of the Company. Mr. Wall previously was President of the Company's Baker Oil Tools division.
Messrs. Barr and Wall will each report directly to James R. Clark, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company.
Effective February 28, 2005, Messrs. Barr and Wall each received a 16,000 share restricted stock award of Company Common Stock under Restricted Stock Award Agreements ("RSA") pursuant to the Company's 2002 Director & Officer Long-Term Incentive Plan. Under the RSA, restricted shares of the Company's Common Stock are issued, with vesting occurring one-fourth on each of February 28, 2007 and 2008 and the remaining one-half on February 28, 2009, subject to the officer's continued employment with the Company. The RSA recipient is entitled to receive dividends on and vote the restricted shares of Common Stock prior to vesting.
The foregoing description of the RSA does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Award Agreement, which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 28, 2005, the Company issued a news release announcing the organizational appointments effective as of February 28, 2005. A copy of the news release is being furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Baker Hughes Announces Organizational Changes
HOUSTON, Texas  February 28, 2005. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE) announced today that David H. Barr has been appointed Group President, Drilling and Evaluation and Douglas J. Wall has been appointed Group President, Completions and Production. Both Mr. Barr and Mr. Wall will report directly to James R. "Rod" Clark, Baker Hughes' President and Chief Operating Officer. The promotions are effective February 28, 2005.
The new Drilling and Evaluation Group includes the Baker Atlas, Baker Hughes Drilling Fluids, Hughes Christensen and INTEQ divisions. Martin S. Craighead has been appointed President of Baker Atlas filling the position opened by the promotion of Mr. Barr. Paul S. Butero has been appointed President of Hughes Christensen succeeding Trevor M. Burgess who has left the company.
The new Completions and Production Group consists of the Baker Oil Tools, Baker Petrolite, and Centrilift divisions. Chris P. Beaver has been appointed President of Baker Oil Tools filling the position opened by the promotion of Mr. Wall.
James R. "Rod" Clark, Baker Hughes President and Chief Operating Officer, said, "Both David Barr and Doug Wall bring strong business, operational, and leadership skills to their new positions. By creating two groups, we recognize that each group is facing distinct challenges and opportunities best addressed with focused strategies, technologies, and capital."
Mr. Clark added, "Within the groups, the divisions will sharpen their focus on customer relationships, develop best-in-class technologies, and deliver flawless execution at the manufacturing and operational level. The new organization will provide growth opportunities for many individuals as we strengthen our regional presence and capabilities. I am excited that we have been able to promote managers such as Chris Beaver, Paul Butero, and Martin Craighead who have provided excellent leadership to Baker Hughes while promoting our Core Values."
Chad C. Deaton, Baker Hughes Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "The organizational structure announced today supports the implementation of our long-
 
term strategy. We are strengthening our best-in-class product-line focus while we move closer to our global customers  particularly the national oil companies  and work to improve overall enterprise efficiency."
Biographies
David H. Barr, 55, was named Group President, Drilling and Evaluation in 2005 after serving since 2000 as President of Baker Atlas. Previously, he was Vice President, Supply Chain Management for Cameron division of Cooper Cameron Corporation, where he served for one year. Mr. Barr began his career with Hughes Tool Company in 1972 after completing his Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering at Texas Tech University. His career with Baker Hughes spans 33 years in various manufacturing, marketing, engineering, and product management functions. Most of his tenure has been with the Hughes Tool and Hughes Christensen divisions, and he was the original architect and executive manager of Project Renaissance.
Douglas J. Wall, 52, was named Group President, Completions and Production in 2005. He has served as President of Baker Oil Tools since 2003. Prior to 2003 Mr. Wall served as President of Hughes Christensen, a position he held since joining Baker Hughes in 1997. Previously, he was President of Western Rock Bit, then Hughes Christensen's distributor in Canada. Over a 20-year period, Mr. Wall held a variety of senior executive positions with oilfield services companies in Canada. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Calgary and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Alberta.
Chris P. Beaver, 47, was named President of Baker Oil Tools in 2005. Prior to this appointment Mr. Beaver served as Vice President of Finance for Baker Petrolite a position he has held since 2002. Since joining Baker Hughes in 1985, Mr. Beaver has held numerous financial and accounting positions at INTEQ and Hughes Christensen in the United States and Eastern Hemisphere. He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accounts of Scotland and earned a bachelor's degree in Economics and Accounting from the University of Newcastle and a Master of Business Administration degree from Aberdeen University.
Paul S. Butero, 48, was named President of Hughes Christensen in 2005. Mr. Butero joined Baker Hughes in 1981 and has served 24 years in a number of operations roles in the United States and the Eastern Hemisphere before becoming Vice President of Marketing for Hughes Christensen in 2000. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Colorado-Boulder.
Martin S. Craighead, 45, was named President of Baker Atlas in 2005. He has served as Vice President of Worldwide Operations for Baker Atlas since 2003. He joined the company in 1986 and has served Western Atlas and Baker Atlas in a number of operational positions including assignments in Canada, Latin America, and Asia. Before he joined Baker Hughes, he was employed as a Research Engineer at BJ Services. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Pennsylvania State University in Petroleum and Natural Gas Engineering and a Master of Business Administration from Vanderbilt University.
Forward Looking Statements
This news release (and any oral statements) may contain forward-looking statements with in the meaning of Section 27A or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Additional information and risk factors are
 
contained in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 and other filings with the SEC about the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be different. The company's SEC filings can be viewed at http://www.Bakerhughes.com. The company assumes no responsibility to update any of the information referenced in this news release.


