FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20060426060158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On April 20, 2006, Baker Hughes Incorporated ("Baker Hughes" or the "Company") entered into a Master Sales Agreement with Schlumberger Limited ("Schlumberger") to sell the Company's 30% minority interest in WesternGeco, a seismic venture jointly owned with Schlumberger, to Schlumberger for $2.4 billion in cash. The sale is expected to be completed by the end of April 2006, subject to customary closing conditions. The terms of the Master Sales Agreement include a covenant by the Company to not compete with the seismic business of WesternGeco for a period of 18 months from the closing of the sale. Effective upon the closing, the Master Sales Agreement also modifies or terminates certain of the obligations of the parties under the Master Formation Agreement entered into on September 6, 2000 in connection with the formation of the venture.
The foregoing description of the Master Sales Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Master Sales Agreement, which will be filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K the Company plans to file after the closing of the sale.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 26, 2006, the Company issued a news release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Following the issuance of the news release and the filing of this current report on Form 8-K, the Company will hold a conference call on Wednesday, April 26, 2006 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time, 7:30 a.m. central time, to discuss the earnings announcement and the sale of its minority interest in WesternGeco. This scheduled conference call was previously announced on March 17, 2006. To access the call, which is open to the public, please call the conference call operator at 800-374-2469, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." The conference call will also be webcast by Thomson/CCBN. To access the webcast, go to and select "News Releases", then click on "Conference Calls." A replay of the call and the webcast will be available through Wednesday, May 10, 2006. The number for the replay of the call is 706-645-9291 and the access code is 6774291. The replay of the webcast will also be available on the Company's website at in the "News Releases" section under "Conference Calls".
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") that were included in the news release, certain information discussed in the news release and to be discussed on the conference call could be considered non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G). Any non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, or superior to, net income (loss), income (loss) from
Table of Contents
continuing operations, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. Reconciliations of such non-GAAP information to the closest GAAP measures are included in the news release and can be found on the Company's website at in the Financial Information section under the heading "Impact of Non-Operational Items" and in the applicable earnings releases under the "Earnings Releases" heading.
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 26, 2006, the Company issued a news release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Also, see Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 21, 2006, the Company issued a news release announcing (i) the sale of its interest in WesternGeco, and (ii) an $1.8 billion increase in the Company's current stock repurchase program, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference. The information contained in such news release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes Announces Record First Quarter Results
     HOUSTON, Texas  April 26, 2006. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE; EBS) today announced that income from continuing operations for the first quarter 2006 was $318.8 million or $0.93 per diluted share, compared to $178.4 million or $0.53 per diluted share for the first quarter 2005 and $257.4 million or $0.75 per diluted share for the fourth quarter 2005.
     Net income for the first quarter 2006 was $339.2 million or $0.99 per diluted share, compared to $179.8 million or $0.53 per diluted share for the first quarter 2005 and $257.9 million or $0.75 per diluted share for the fourth quarter 2005.
     Revenue for the first quarter 2006 was $2,062.0 million, up 26% compared to $1,642.9 million for the first quarter 2005 and up 4% compared to $1,989.4 million for the fourth quarter 2005.
Chad C. Deaton, Baker Hughes chairman and chief executive officer, said, "Pricing realization exceeded our expectations in this record quarter. Our strong first quarter results, particularly in North America, the North Sea and the Middle East, reflect customer recognition of the value our technology delivers and our continuing focus on execution and reliability.
     "Last Friday we announced that we had reached agreement with Schlumberger to sell them our minority interest in WesternGeco for $2.4 billion. While we were pleased with WesternGeco's results and the accomplishments of the management team, we believe this was an excellent opportunity to exit our minority ownership position. Given our positive, multi-year outlook for the market, we expect to continue to generate cash in excess of our needs to grow our business. Accordingly, the Board increased our stock
 
repurchase authorization by $1.8 billion which will be funded by the $1.8 billion cash proceeds, net of tax, generated by the sale of our interest in WesternGeco."
     Mr. Deaton concluded, "The environment remains positive for continued market growth over the next several years. Global demand for oil and gas has remained strong, challenging our customers to find and develop new reservoirs to offset depletion and meet growing demands. Our customers are taking a long-term approach to the market with a focus on technology, reliability and execution. We are continuing to invest in people and technology today to satisfy the future demands of this growing market and to address geographic opportunities, particularly in the Eastern Hemisphere where we believe we have the greatest opportunities for growth."
     During the first quarter 2006, debt decreased $4.5 million to $1,083.4 million, and cash and short-term investments decreased $131.9 million to $642.1 million. In the first quarter 2006, the company's capital expenditures were $159.1 million, depreciation and amortization was $100.0 million and dividend payments were $44.4 million.
     During the first quarter of 2006, the company repurchased 1.3 million shares at an average price of $67.41 for a total of $90.7 million. During the first three weeks of April 2006, the company repurchased 0.6 million shares at an average price of $71.72 for a total of $45.4 million. On April 21, 2006 the company announced that it increased its share repurchase authorization by $1.8 billion. As of April 21, 2006, the company has authorization remaining to repurchase approximately $2.1 billion in stock.
     Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $20.4 million and included a $19.2 million gain on the sale of Baker SPD. During the first quarter of 2006, the company sold Baker SPD, a product line group within the Baker Oil Tools division of the Completion and Production segment, for $42.5 million and has recorded a gain on the sale of assets of $19.2 million, net of tax of $11.0 million. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, Baker SPD had revenues of $32.5 million and net income of $4.9 million. In December 2005, the company reclassified all prior periods to reflect Baker SPD as a discontinued operation.
 
Financial Information
Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Calculation of EBIT and EBITDA (non-GAAP measures)
1
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
Segment Highlights
     We report our results under three segments: Drilling and Evaluation, which consists of the Baker Atlas, Baker Hughes Drilling Fluids, Hughes Christensen, and INTEQ divisions; Completion and Production, which consists of the Baker Oil Tools, Baker Petrolite, and Centrilift divisions and the Production Optimization Group; and WesternGeco, the seismic joint venture with Schlumberger Limited in which we have a 30% interest. In this news release "Oilfield Operations" refers to the combination of the Drilling and Evaluation and the Completion and Production segments. The results of Oilfield Operations and WesternGeco are reported as "Total Oilfield." Historical information on these segments from the first quarter of 2001 through the first quarter of 2006 can be found on our website at www.bakerhughes.com/investor in the "investor relations/financial information" section.
     Operational highlights for the three months ended March 31, 2006, March 31, 2005 and December 31, 2005 are detailed below. All results are unaudited and shown in millions.
 
 
Oilfield Operations
     Unless otherwise noted, all comments in this section refer to Oilfield Operations, excluding WesternGeco.
     The following table details the percentage change in revenue in the first quarter 2006 compared to the first quarter 2005 and fourth quarter 2005.
 
     Oilfield Operations revenue was up 26% in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the first quarter of 2005, and up 4% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Operating profit before tax was up 57% compared to the first quarter of 2005 and up 16% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. The quarterly year-over-year incremental pre-tax margin (a non-GAAP measure of the change in operating profit before tax divided by the change in revenue) was 42%. The pre-tax operating margin (a non-GAAP measure of operating profit before tax divided by revenue) in the first quarter of 2006 was 24% compared to 19% in the first quarter of 2005 and 21% in the fourth
 
quarter of 2005. Every division posted double-digit pre-tax operating margins for the first quarter of 2006.
Drilling and Evaluation
     Drilling and Evaluation revenue was up 29% in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the first quarter of 2005, and up 4% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Baker Hughes Drilling Fluids, Hughes Christensen, and INTEQ recorded record revenue in the first quarter of 2006. Operating profit before tax was up 77% compared to the first quarter of 2005 and up 18% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Baker Hughes Drilling Fluids, Hughes Christensen, and INTEQ all achieved record operating profit before tax in the first quarter of 2006. The quarterly year-over-year incremental pre-tax margin was 50%. The pre-tax operating margin in the first quarter of 2006 was 26% compared to 19% in the first quarter of 2005 and 23% in the fourth quarter of 2005. Baker Atlas, Baker Hughes Drilling Fluids, Hughes Christensen, and INTEQ all posted record pre-tax operating margins in the first quarter of 2006.
Completion and Production
     Completion and Production revenue was up 22% in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the first quarter of 2005 and up 4% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Baker Oil Tools and Baker Petrolite recorded record revenue in the first quarter of 2006. Operating profit before tax was up 37% compared to the first quarter of 2005 and up 13% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Baker Oil Tools achieved record operating profit before tax in the first quarter of 2006. The quarterly year-over-year incremental pre-tax margin was 32%. The pre-tax operating margin in the first quarter of 2006 was 21% compared to 19% in the first quarter of 2005 and 20% in the fourth quarter of 2005. Baker Oil Tools posted record pre-tax operating margins in the first quarter of 2006.
Corporate, Net Interest and Other
     Corporate, net interest and other expenses were $56.5 million in the first quarter 2006, down $2.6 million from the first quarter 2005 and down $17.3 million from the fourth quarter 2005. Compared to the first quarter of 2005, the decrease in corporate, net interest and other costs was due primarily to a decrease in net interest expense partially offset by higher corporate expenses. On a sequential basis, the decrease was due to lower legal and compliance costs, lower costs associated with assets retained
 
from the former Baker Process operations, favorable changes in foreign currency and lower net interest expense.
Geographic Highlights
     Revenue by geographic area for the three months ended March 31, 2006, December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005, are detailed below. All results are unaudited and shown in millions. Additional information for prior periods beginning with the three months ended March 31, 2001 can be found on our website at www.bakerhughes.com/investor in the "investor relations/financial information" section of the website.
 
     North American revenue increased 31% in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the first quarter of 2005 and increased 12% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Highlights included:
 
     Latin American revenue increased 19% in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the first quarter of 2005 and decreased 6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Highlights included:
     Europe, Africa, and CIS revenue was up 21% in the first quarter of 2006, compared to the first quarter of 2005, and was up 1% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Highlights included:
 
     Middle East and Asia Pacific revenue was up 22% in the first quarter of 2006, compared to the first quarter of 2005 and down 6% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2005. Highlights included:
Outlook
     The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. Factors affecting these forward-looking statements are detailed below under the section titled "Forward-Looking Statements" in this news release. These statements include the impact from the adoption of FAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment; the expected sale of our minority interest in WesternGeco to Schlumberger at the end of April, 2006; and the impact of expected stock repurchases. Statements regarding WesternGeco are based on information provided by WesternGeco, and therefore, are subject to the accuracy of that information. Additionally, forward-looking statements relating to WesternGeco are also
 
subject to the factors listed in Forward-Looking Statements in this news release. These statements do not include the potential impact of any other acquisition, disposition, merger, joint venture, or other transaction that could occur in the future.
     We have increased our guidance for revenues and income from continuing operations and modified our guidance for net interest expense to reflect our revised outlook.
Conference Call
     The company has scheduled a conference call to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement as well as the sale of our minority interest in WesternGeco. The call will begin at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time, 7:30 a.m. Central time, on April 26, 2006. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at (800) 374-2469, or (706) 634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay will be available through Wednesday, May 10, 2006. The number for the replay is (706) 645-9291 and the access code is 6774291. The call and replay will also be web cast on www.bakerhughes.com/investor.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release, including on the conference call announced herein) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each
 
a "ForwardLooking Statement"). The words "anticipate," "believe," "ensure," "expect," "if," "intend," "estimate," "project," "forecasts," "predict," "outlook," "aim," "will," "could," "should," "would," "may," "likely" and similar expressions, and the negative thereof, are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking-statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and those set forth from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The documents are available through the company's web site or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.
Our expectations regarding our business outlook, including changes in revenue, pricing, capital spending, profitability, strategies for our operations, impact of our common stock repurchases, oil and natural gas market conditions, market share and contract terms, costs and availability of resources, economic and regulatory conditions, and environmental matters are only our forecasts regarding these matters.
Our expectations with regard to the sale of our minority interest in WesternGeco, gains from the transaction and cash proceeds, net of tax, are subject to the completion of the transaction, tax and accounting treatment upon completion and the performance results of WesternGeco prior to completion. The risks and uncertainties regarding the completion of the sale of our interest in WesternGeco include, but are not limited to, failure of the parties to satisfy closing conditions. The company's expectations regarding stock repurchases are subject to market conditions, such as the trading price for the company's stock, and management's discretion to discontinue stock repurchase at any time.
     These forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which are affected by the following risk factors and the timing of any of those risk factors:
     Oil and gas market conditions  the level of petroleum industry exploration and production expenditures; drilling rig and oil and natural gas industry manpower and equipment availability; the price of, and the demand for, crude oil and natural gas; drilling activity; excess productive capacity; seasonal and other adverse weather conditions that affect the demand for energy; severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, that affect exploration and production activities; OPEC policy and the adherence by OPEC nations to their OPEC production quotas; war, military action, terrorist activities or extended period of international conflict, particularly involving the U.S., Middle East or other major petroleumproducing or consuming regions; civil unrest or security conditions where we operate; expropriation of assets by governmental action.
     Pricing, market share and contract terms  our ability to implement and affect price increases for our products and services; the effect of the level and sources of our profitability on our tax rate; the ability of our competitors to capture market share; our ability to retain or increase our market share; changes in our strategic direction; the effect of industry capacity relative to demand for the markets in which we participate; our ability to negotiate acceptable terms and conditions with our customers, especially national oil companies; our ability to manage warranty claims and improve performance and quality; our ability to effectively manage our commercial agents.
 
     Costs and availability of resources  our ability to manage the rising costs and availability of sufficient raw materials and components (especially steel alloys, copper, carbide, and chemicals); our ability to recruit, train and retain the skilled and diverse workforce necessary to meet our business needs; manufacturing capacity and subcontracting capacity at forecasted costs to meet our revenue goals; the availability of essential electronic components used in our products; the effect of competition, particularly our ability to introduce new technology on a forecasted schedule and at forecasted costs; potential impairment of longlived assets; the accuracy of our estimates regarding our capital spending requirements; unanticipated changes in the levels of our capital expenditures; the need to replace any unanticipated losses in capital assets; the development of technology by us or our competitors that lowers overall finding and development costs; laborrelated actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations.
     Litigation and changes in laws or regulatory conditions  the potential for unexpected litigation or proceedings; the legislative, regulatory and business environment in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate; outcome of government and internal investigations and legal proceedings; new laws, regulations and policies that could have a significant impact on the future operations and conduct of all businesses; changes in export control laws or exchange control laws; additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions; financial impact of exiting certain countries; changes in laws in Russia or other countries identified by management for immediate focus; changes in accounting standards; changes in tax laws or tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; resolution of audits by various tax authorities; ability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits.
     Economic conditions  worldwide economic growth; the effect that high energy prices may have on worldwide economic growth and demand for hydrocarbons; foreign currency exchange fluctuations and changes in the capital markets in international locations where we operate; the condition of the capital and equity markets in general; our ability to estimate the size of and changes in the worldwide oil and natural gas industry. Changes in the price of our stock may affect the results and timing of our stock repurchase program.
     Environmental matters  unexpected, adverse outcomes or material increases in liability with respect to environmental remediation sites where we have been named as a potentially responsible party; the discovery of new environmental remediation sites; changes in environmental regulations; the discharge of hazardous materials or hydrocarbons into the environment.

 
Exhibit 99.2
Baker Hughes to Sell Interest in WesternGeco for $2.4 Billion
     HOUSTON, Texas  April 21, 2006. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE; EBS) today announced that it has signed an agreement to sell its 30% minority interest in WesternGeco, a seismic venture jointly owned with Schlumberger Limited, to Schlumberger for $2.4 billion in cash. The sale has been approved by Baker Hughes' Board of Directors and is expected to be completed by the end of April, 2006. Baker Hughes expects to record a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.74 billion (approximately $1.05 billion, net of tax), subject to normal closing adjustments. Cash proceeds, net of tax, are expected to be approximately $1.8 billion. Baker Hughes was advised by Goldman, Sachs & Co.
     The company plans to use the net cash proceeds to repurchase stock; accordingly the company also announced that its Board of Directors has increased its stock repurchase authorization by $1.8 billion.
     Commenting on the sale, Chad Deaton, Baker Hughes' chairman and chief executive officer said, "We have been pleased with the results from WesternGeco over the last several quarters and with the performance of the WesternGeco management team. However, the $2.4 billion sales price provides us with an excellent point to exit our minority ownership position. We remain excited about the growth in the global market for our products and services that we see continuing for the next several years. Baker Hughes will continue investing in people and technology to further our penetration of key global markets, and we maintain our intention to return cash in excess of our needs to our stockholders through our stock repurchase program."
Conference Call
     The company has scheduled a conference call to discuss this announcement as well as its first quarter 2006 earnings on Wednesday, April 26, 2006, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time, 7:30 a.m. Central time. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at (800) 374-2469, or (706) 634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay will be available through Wednesday, May 10, 2006.
 
     The number for the replay is (706) 645-9291 and the access code is 6774291. The call and replay will also be web cast on www.bakerhughes.com/investor.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words "expects," "expected," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the preliminary estimates in our forward-looking statements. The company's expectations with regard to gains and cash proceeds net of tax are subject to the completion of the transaction, tax and accounting treatment upon completion and the performance results of WesternGeco prior to completion. The risks and uncertainties regarding the completion of the sale of our interest in WesternGeco include, but are not limited to, failure of the parties to satisfy closing conditions. The company's expectations regarding stock repurchases are subject to market conditions, such as the trading price for the company's stock, and management's discretion to discontinue stock repurchase at any time. These forward-looking-statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and those set forth from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update any of the information referenced in this news release. The documents are available through the company's web site or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at www.sec.gov .


