FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20060915142528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 15, 2006, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") entered into an Indemnification Agreement effective September 10, 2006, with Gary G. Rich, the newly appointed Vice President of the Company and President of the Company's Hughes Christensen division. The Indemnification Agreement requires the Company to indemnify Mr. Rich against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of his status or service as a Vice President of the Company, to advance his expenses incurred as a result of a proceeding as to which he may be indemnified and to cover such person under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policy the Company chooses to maintain. The Indemnification Agreement is intended to provide indemnification rights to the fullest extent permitted under applicable indemnification rights statutes in the State of Delaware and shall be in addition to any rights Mr. Rich may have under the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and applicable law.
The Company and Mr. Rich also entered into a Change in Control Severance Agreement on September 15, 2006, effective as of September 10, 2006. The Change in Control Severance Agreement defines the benefits Mr. Rich would receive in connection with certain change in control, or a potential change in control, events coupled with their loss of employment. If eligible, Mr. Rich would receive certain benefits, including a lump sum payment based on three times a salary and bonus formula, continuation of health and insurance benefits for 36 months, a payment for incentive and benefit plans participation and a gross-up payment in respect of excise taxes.
The foregoing descriptions of the Indemnification Agreement and the Change in Control Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the applicable agreements, forms of which agreements were filed as exhibits to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, respectively.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 13, 2006, the Company issued a news release announcing the organizational appointments. A copy of the news release is being furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes Announces Organizational Changes
Houston  September 13, 2006. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE; EBS) announced four changes to its executive leadership team today. All changes are effective immediately.
Frank M. "Mike" Davis has been appointed President of Baker Hughes Russia, Inc. reporting to Rod Clark, President and Chief Operating Officer. In this role Mr. Davis will have responsibilities for all Baker Hughes operations in Russia.
William P. "Wil" Faubel has been appointed Vice President, Enterprise Marketing for Baker Hughes Oilfield Operations reporting to Doug Wall, Vice President and Group President, Baker Hughes Completion and Production, and to David Barr, Vice President and Group President, Baker Hughes Drilling and Evaluation.
Paul S. Butero has been appointed President of Baker Atlas succeeding Mr. Faubel and will report to David Barr.
Gary G. Rich has been appointed President of Hughes Christensen succeeding Mr. Butero and will report to David Barr.
Commenting on the appointments Rod Clark, Baker Hughes President and Chief Operating Officer, said, "The appointment of Mike Davis as President of Baker Hughes Russia, Inc. is a critical step supporting our enterprise strategy to aggressively grow and compete in Russia. Following a brief transition period, all divisional operational units operating in Russia will report directly to Mike and we will operate in Russia on an integrated basis.
"We welcome Wil Faubel to his position as Vice President, Enterprise Marketing. Wil is uniquely qualified for this very important role, having served as President of Centrilift and Baker Atlas after a long career at Hughes Christensen. The enterprise marketing role will enable us to more effectively develop enterprise strategies for key markets around
 
the world, expand our brand, target growth opportunities with specific customers, and integrate our global growth opportunities.
"Paul Butero is a seasoned veteran whose leadership and vision have helped drive results at Hughes Christensen. He is well qualified to lead Baker Atlas as it continues to grow.
Mr. Clark concluded, "Gary Rich has worked for Baker Hughes for 19 years in both INTEQ and Hughes Christensen, serving in a variety of operations, marketing and strategic roles. While at HCC, Gary was an instrumental member of the Diamond Strategy team that laid the framework for our current success in that product line."
Biographies
Paul S. Butero (49) served as President of Hughes Christensen since February 2005. Mr. Butero joined Baker Hughes in 1981 and has served 25 years in a number of operations roles in the United States and the Eastern Hemisphere before becoming Vice President of Marketing for Hughes Christensen in 2000. He earned his Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Colorado-Boulder.
William P. "Wil" Faubel (51) served as President of Baker Atlas since November 2005. Mr. Faubel joined Baker Hughes as a field engineer for Hughes Tool Company in 1977 and has held a variety of sales and management positions in both domestic and international regions, including President of Centrilift and Vice President of Marketing for Hughes Christensen. He received his Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering from Southern Methodist University.
Gary G. Rich (47) served as Vice President Marketing Drilling and Evaluation for INTEQ since February 2005. Mr. Rich joined INTEQ as a Senior Financial Analyst in 1987 and served in a number of marketing and operations positions including Product Manager, Marketing Director  INTEQ Drilling Systems, INTEQ Region Manager, and Marketing Director for Hughes Christensen. Gary received his Bachelor of Science in Accounting from Brigham Young University and his Master of Science degree in Science and Technology Commercialization from the University of Texas.
Frank M. "Mike" Davis (51) served as Vice President Marketing for Hughes Christensen since February 2005. Mr. Davis joined Hughes Tool Company in 1976 and has held a variety of positions in Baker Hughes including Vice President, New Business Development for Hughes Christensen, Vice President and General Manager  Baker Hughes Mining Tools and Vice President, Human Resources for Baker Process. Mike's career has included 12 years spent in management positions in the Middle East and Asia Pacific with Hughes Christensen.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "ForwardLooking Statement"). The word "will," and similar expressions, and the negative thereof, are intended to identify forwardlooking
 
statements. These forward-looking-statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and those set forth from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The documents are available through the company's web site or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.


