FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20060612171841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On June 7, 2006, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement among the Company, as Borrower; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent; and the lenders identified in the Credit Agreement dated as of July 7, 2005 (the "First Amendment to the Credit Agreement"). The First Amendment to the Credit Agreement extends the term of the Credit Agreement which was originally for a five year period ending on July 7, 2010 to July 7, 2011. The Credit Agreement, as amended by the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement, is a committed $500 million revolving credit facility with a provision to allow for an increase in the facility amount of an additional $500 million subject to approval and acceptance by the lenders among other conditions.
The foregoing description of the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation.
See Item 1.01. On June 7, 2006, the Company entered into the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Credit Agreement as of June 12, 2006. The description of the Amendment to the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment to the Credit Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On June 8, 2006, as part of a previously announced stock repurchase program, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") with an agent for the purchase of shares of the Company's common stock that complies with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 promulgated by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The term of the Plan will run from June 9, 2006 until August 1, 2006, unless earlier terminated. During that term, the agent will, subject to applicable trading rules, use its best efforts to repurchase a number of shares of the Company's common stock, if any, that will be determined under the terms of the Plan each trading day based on the trading price of the stock on that day. Shares will be repurchased by the agent at the prevailing market prices, in open market transactions intended to comply with Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. Either the Company or the agent may terminate the Plan.
In addition to the Stock Purchase Plan, the Company may purchase additional shares through discretionary repurchases in a program with the agent intended to comply with
 
Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, privately negotiated transactions or additional Rule 10b5-1 stock repurchase plans up to the total outstanding authorization.
Depending upon prevailing market conditions and other factors, there can be no assurance that any or all authorized shares of common stock will be purchased pursuant to the Plan, program or otherwise. In no event will the cumulative amount of common stock purchased under the plan exceed $1.2 billion, inclusive of all commissions and fees paid to the agent by the Company related to such repurchases.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
This Form 8-K contains certain "forward-looking statements" (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act, as amended) that reflect the Company's expectations regarding future events. These forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current beliefs and expectations and are based on information currently available to the Company. Accordingly, these statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual events to differ from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. See the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and all subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of other risks and uncertainties. As a result, no assurance can be given that the Company's beliefs and expectations covered by such forward-looking statements will be achieved. The Company is not obligated and has no intention to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events, information or circumstances.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1 Execution Version
 
 
 
     (this "") dated as of June 7, 2006, is among a Delaware corporation, as the Borrower; , as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party hereto.
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT
First Amendment
BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED
,
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
     A. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders are parties to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of July 7, 2005 (the ""), pursuant to which the Lenders have agreed to make certain loans to and extensions of credit for the account of the Borrower.
Credit Agreement
     B. The Borrower has requested and the Lenders have agreed to extend the Maturity Date of the Credit Agreement.
     C. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants herein contained, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     Section 1. . Each capitalized term used herein but not otherwise defined herein has the meaning given such term in the Credit Agreement. Unless otherwise indicated, all article and section references in this First Amendment refer to articles and sections of the Credit Agreement.
Defined Terms
     Section 2. Amendments to Credit Agreement.
     2.1
Amendments to Section 1.01  Definitions
          (a) The definition of "" is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
Credit Agreement
     "" means this Credit Agreement, as amended by the First Amendment, as the same may from time to time be amended, modified, restated, or replaced from time to time.
Credit Agreement
          (b) The definition of "" is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
Maturity Date
     "" means July 7, 2011, and for any Lender agreeing to extend its Maturity Date under Section 2.10, the date on July 7, in each year thereafter pursuant to which the Maturity Date has been extended but in no event later than July 7, 2013.
Maturity Date
          (c) The definition of "" is hereby added to Section 1.01 in proper alphabetic order which definition shall read as follows:
First Amendment
 
     "" means the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of June 7, 2006 among the Borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and the Lenders party thereto.
First Amendment
     Section 3. . This First Amendment shall not become effective until the date (the "") on which the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Borrower dated as of the Extension Confirmation Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Borrower approving or consenting to this First Amendment and (ii) certifying that, (A) before and after giving effect to such extension, the representations and warranties contained in Article VI of the Credit Agreement made by it (other than those made in Section 6.08) are true and correct on and as of the Extension Confirmation Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, (B) before and after giving effect to such extension no Default exists or will exist as of the Extension Confirmation Date, and (C) no Material Adverse Effect (except as may have arisen in connection with the matters covered in Section 6.08) has occurred since the date of the most recently filed Form 10-K or 10-Q through the Extension Confirmation Date.
Conditions Precedent
Effective Date
     Section 4. .
Miscellaneous
     4.1 . The provisions of the Credit Agreement, as amended by this First Amendment, shall remain in full force and effect following the effectiveness of this First Amendment.
Confirmation
     4.2 . The Borrower hereby (a) ratifies and affirms its obligations under, and acknowledges, renews and extends its continued obligations under, each Loan Document to which it is a party and agrees that each Loan Document to which it is a party remains in full force and effect, except as expressly amended hereby, notwithstanding the amendments contained herein and (b) represents and warrants to the Lenders that as of the date hereof, after giving effect to the terms of this First Amendment: (i) before and after giving effect to this First Amendment, the representations and warranties contained in Article VI of the Credit Agreement made by it (other than those made in Section 6.08) are true and correct on and as of the Extension Confirmation Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, (ii) before and after giving effect to such extension no Default exists or will exist as of the Extension Confirmation Date, and (C) no Material Adverse Effect (except as may have arisen in connection with the matters covered in Section 6.08) has occurred since the date of the most recently filed Form 10-K or 10-Q through the Extension Confirmation Date.
Ratification and Affirmation; Representations and Warranties
     4.3 . This First Amendment is a "Credit Document" as defined and described in the Credit Agreement and all of the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement relating to Credit Documents shall apply hereto.
Loan Document
     4.4 . This First Amendment may be executed by one or more of the parties hereto in any number of separate counterparts, and all of such counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of this First Amendment by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.
Counterparts
 
     4.5 . THIS FIRST AMENDMENT, THE CREDIT AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS EXECUTED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH AND THEREWITH REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT AMONG THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES.
NO ORAL AGREEMENT
     4.6 . THIS FIRST AMENDMENT (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE VALIDITY AND ENFORCEABILITY HEREOF) SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


