FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20081029060123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
          On October 28, 2008, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") completed a public offering of $1,250 million aggregate principal amount of its debt securities, consisting of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of its 6.50% Senior Notes due 2013 and $750 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Notes"). The Company estimates that it will receive net proceeds of approximately $1,235.5 million from this offering, after deducting the underwriting discounts and estimated expenses relating to the offering. The Company expects to use a portion of the net proceeds from this offering to repay $325 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 6.25% notes, which mature on January 15, 2009, and $200 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 6.00% notes, which mature on February 15, 2009. The Company will use the remaining net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, which could include repaying outstanding commercial paper and funding on-going operations, business acquisitions and repurchases of the Company's common stock.
          The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future senior indebtedness; senior in right of payment to any future subordinated indebtedness; and effectively junior to the Company's future secured indebtedness, if any, and to all existing and future indebtedness of its subsidiaries. The Company may redeem, at its option, all or part of the Notes at any time, at the applicable make-whole redemption prices plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. The terms of the Notes are governed by an Indenture dated as of October 28, 2008 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A, as trustee.
          The Notes were issued pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement between the Company and the representatives of the several underwriters. Charles L. Watson, a director of the Company, is a managing director of Barclays Capital Inc., one of the underwriters.
          The Indenture, including the form of the Notes, dated as of October 28, 2008, and the Officers' Certificate of the Company dated October 28, 2008 establishing the terms of the Notes are filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation
          The information set forth under Item 1.01 above hereby is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
     INDENTURE, dated as of October 28, 2008, between BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the ""), having its principal office at 2929 Allen Parkway, Houston, Texas 77019 and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "").
Company
Trustee
     The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the ""), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
Securities
     All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
     For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
     
SECTION 101. Definitions.
     For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
     (1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
     (2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
     (3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP;
     (4) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article" or a "Section" refers to an Article or a Section, as the case may be, of this Indenture;
     (5) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
 
     (6) when used with respect to any Security, the words "convert", "converted" and "conversion" are intended to refer to the right of the Holder or the Company to convert or exchange such Security into or for securities or other property in accordance with such terms, if any, as may hereafter be specified for such Security as contemplated by Section 301, and these words are not intended to refer to any right of the Holder or the Company to exchange such Security for other Securities of the same series and like tenor pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 or another similar provision of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires; and references herein to the terms of any Security that may be converted mean such terms as may be specified for such Security as contemplated in Section 301.
     "", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
Act
     "" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
     "" of a Depositary means, with respect to any matter at any time, the policies and procedures of such Depositary, if any, that are applicable to such matter at such time.
Applicable Procedures
     "" means, when used with respect to Securities of any series, any Person authorized by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate the Securities of such series.
Authenticating Agent
     "" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board.
Board of Directors
     "" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee. Where any provision of this Indenture refers to action to be taken pursuant to a Board Resolution (including the establishment of any series of the Securities and the forms and terms thereof), such action may be taken by any officer or employee of the Company authorized to take such action by the Board of Directors as evidenced by a Board Resolution.
Board Resolution
     "", when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close; provided that, when used with respect to any Security, "Business Day" may have such other meaning, if any, as may be specified for such Security as contemplated by Section 301.
Business Day
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this
Commission
 
instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
     "" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
     "" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any two of the following: a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Vice President, a Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, or any other officer or officers of the Company designated in writing by or pursuant to authority of the Board of Directors and delivered to the Trustee from time to time.
Company Request
Company Order
     "" means the designated office of the Trustee in Houston, Texas at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered and which, at the date hereof, is located at 601 Travis Street, 18 Floor, Houston Texas 77002, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or at such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee.
Corporate Trust Office
th
     "" means a corporation, association, company (including a limited liability company), joint-stock company, business trust or other similar entity.
corporation
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1303.
Covenant Defeasance
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
Defaulted Interest
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1302.
Defeasance
     "" means, with respect to Securities of any series issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, a clearing agency that is designated to act as depositary for such Securities as contemplated by Section 301.
Depositary
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 104.
DTC
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
Event of Default
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 104.
Expiration Date
     "" means, at any time, (i) generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States or (ii) if at such time the
GAAP
 
Company is required to prepare its financial statements for reports filed with the Commission under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act pursuant to standards other than those specified in clause (i) (which may include International Financial Reporting Standards), such other standards, in each case which are in effect at such time.
     "" means a Security that evidences all or part of the Securities of any series and bears the legend set forth in Section 204 (or such legend as may be specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities).
Global Security
     "" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
Holder
     "" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301.
Indenture
     "", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
interest
     "", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
Interest Payment Date
     "", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity
     "" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 501(4).
Notice of Default
     "" means a certificate signed by any two of the following: a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Vice President, a Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, a Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, or any other officer or officers of the Company designated in a writing by or pursuant to authority of the Board of Directors and delivered to the Trustee from time to time.
Officers' Certificate
     "" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel for the Company.
Opinion of Counsel
     "" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
Original Issue Discount Security
     "", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
 
     (1) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
     (2) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
     (3) Securities as to which Defeasance has been effected pursuant to Section 1302;
     (4) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a protected purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company; and
     (5) Securities as to which any property deliverable upon conversion thereof has been delivered (or such delivery has been duly provided for), or as to which any other particular conditions have been satisfied, in each case as may be provided for such Securities as contemplated in Section 301;
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date, (A) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof which would be due and payable as of such date upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 502, (B) if, as of such date, the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of a Security is not determinable, the principal amount of such Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount as specified or determined as contemplated by Section 301, (C) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies, composite currencies or currency units which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined as of such date in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 301, of the principal amount of such Security (or, in the case of a Security described in Clause (A) or (B) above, of the amount determined as provided in such Clause), and (D) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the
provided
however
 
pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
     "" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
Paying Agent
     "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
     "", when used with respect to the Securities of any series and subject to Section 1002, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 301.
Place of Payment
     "" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security.
Predecessor Security
     "", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
     "", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
     "" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
Regular Record Date
     "", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer of the Trustee within the corporate trust department, including any Vice President, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, assistant cashier, trust officer, assistant trust officer or assistant controller assigned to the Corporate Trust Office, or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer of the Trustee to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject, and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
     "" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
Securities
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
Securities Act
     "" and "" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305.
Security Register
Security Registrar
 
     "" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
Special Record Date
     "", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
     "" means any Person a majority of the combined voting power of the total outstanding ownership interests in which is, at the time of determination, beneficially owned or held, directly or indirectly, by the Company or one or more other Subsidiaries. For this purpose, "voting power" means power to vote in an ordinary election of directors (or, in the case of a Person that is not a corporation, ordinarily to appoint or approve the appointment of Persons holding similar positions), whether at all times or only as long as no senior class of ownership interests has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
Subsidiary
     "" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
Trustee
     "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
Trust Indenture Act
provided
however
     "" means the Uniform Commercial Code in effect in the State of Delaware or the State of New York, as applicable, in each case as amended from time to time.
Uniform Commercial Code
     "" has the meaning specified in Section 1304.
U.S. Government Obligation
     "", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
Vice President
     
SECTION 102. Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
     Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture.
     Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
 
     (1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
     (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
     (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
     (4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
     
SECTION 103. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
     In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
     Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of, or representation by, counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
     Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
     
SECTION 104. Acts of Holders; Record Dates.
     Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent or agents duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent
Act
 
shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
     Without limiting the generality of this Section, unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, (i) a Holder, including a Depositary or its nominee that is a Holder of a Global Security, may give, make or take, by an agent or agents duly appointed in writing, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted in or pursuant to this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders, and a Depositary or its nominee that is a Holder of a Global Security may duly appoint in writing as its agent or agents members of, or participants in, such Depositary holding interests in such Global Security in the records of such Depositary; and (ii) with respect to any Global Security the Depositary for which is The Depository Trust Company (""), any consent or other action given, made or taken by an "agent member" of DTC by electronic means in accordance with the Automated Tender Offer Procedures system or other Applicable Procedures of, and pursuant to authorization by, DTC shall be deemed to constitute the "Act" of the Holder of such Global Security, and such Act shall be deemed to have been delivered to the Company and the Trustee upon the delivery by DTC of an "agent's message" or other notice of such consent or other action having been so given, made or taken in accordance with the Applicable Procedures of DTC.
DTC
     The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
     The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
     Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
     The Company may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities of such series, provided that the Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, the giving, making or taking of any notice, declaration, request or direction referred to in the next paragraph. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to give, make or take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; , , that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless given, made or taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite
provided
however
 
principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be canceled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action given, made or taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is given, made or taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Trustee in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Sections 105 and 106.
     The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving, making or taking of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 502, (iii) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 507(2) or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 512, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to give, make or take such notice, declaration, request or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; , , that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless given, made or taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be canceled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action given, made or taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is given, made or taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Sections 105 and 106.
provided
however
     With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which sets such record date may designate any day as the "" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; provided that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other party hereto in writing, and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106, on or prior to the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which set such record date shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date to an earlier day as provided in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date.
Expiration Date
 
     Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to give, make or take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so, in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing, with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security.
     
SECTION 105. Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.
     Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, (1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing (which may be by facsimile transmission) to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to the Trustee at 601 Travis Street, 18 Floor, Houston Texas 77002, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration or any other address previously furnished in writing to the Company and the Holders by the Trustee or (2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
th
     
SECTION 106. Notice to Holders; Waiver.
     Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
     In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
     Where this Indenture provides for notice of any event to a Holder of a Global Security, such notice shall be sufficiently given if given to the Depositary for such Security (or its designee), pursuant to its Applicable Procedures, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice.
 
     
SECTION 107. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
     If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act which is required under such Act to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act which may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
     
SECTION 108. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
     The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
     
SECTION 109. Successors and Assigns.
     All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
     
SECTION 110. Separability Clause.
     In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
     
SECTION 111. Benefits of Indenture.
     Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture, except as may otherwise be provided pursuant to Section 301 with respect to any Securities of a particular series or under this Indenture with respect to such Securities.
     
SECTION 112. Governing Law.
     This Indenture and the Securities and the rights and obligations of the parties hereto and thereto, including the interpretation, construction, validity and enforceability thereof, shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
     
SECTION 113. Legal Holidays.
     In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity of any Security, or any date on which a Holder has the right to convert his Security, shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities (other than a provision of any Security which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any), or conversion of such Security need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with
 
the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Maturity, or on such date for conversion, as the case may be.
     
SECTION 114. No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.
     This Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or other agreement of the Company or its Subsidiaries or of any other Person. Any such indenture, loan or other agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
     
SECTION 115. No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders.
     No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Securities. The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws.
     
SECTION 116. Language of Notices, Etc.
     Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver, other action or Act provided or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
     .
SECTION 117. Force Majeure
     Subject to Section 601, in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts that are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
     .
SECTION 118. Waiver of Jury Trial
     EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INDENTURE.
 
     
SECTION 201. Forms Generally.
     The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article, or in such other form as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or Depositary therefor or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution thereof. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
     The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
     
SECTION 202. Form of Face of Security.
     [Insert any legend required by the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.]
     BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of ________________ Dollars on _____________ [if the Security is to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert  , and to pay interest thereon from __________ or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on __________ and ______ in each year, commencing __________ , and at the Maturity thereof, at the rate of __________ % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the ______ or ______ (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such
Company
_____________
 
interest so payable, but not punctually paid or duly provided for, will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Security may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture].
     [If the Security is not to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert  The principal of this Security shall not bear interest except in the case of a default in payment of principal upon acceleration, upon redemption or at Stated Maturity and in such case the overdue principal and any overdue premium shall bear interest at the rate of . . . . % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment. Interest on any overdue principal or premium shall be payable on demand.]
     Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and [if applicable, insert  any such] interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal thereof or any payment of interest becomes payable on a day other than an Interest Payment Date; , , that if this Security is not a Global Security, (i) payment of interest on an Interest Payment Date will be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; and all other payments will be made by check against surrender of this Security; (ii) all payments by check will be made in next-day funds (, funds that become available on the day after the check is cashed); and (iii) notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii) above, with respect to any payment of any amount due on this Security, if this Security is in a denomination of at least $1,000,000 and the Holder hereof at the time of surrender hereof or, in the case of any payment of interest on any Interest Payment Date, the Holder thereof on the related Regular Record Date delivers a written request to the Paying Agent to make such payment by wire transfer at least five Business Days before the date such payment becomes due, together with appropriate wire transfer instructions specifying an account at a bank in New York, New York, the Company shall make such payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account at such bank in New York City, any such wire instructions, once properly given by a Holder as to this Security, remaining in effect as to such Holder and this Security unless and until new instructions are given in the manner described above and , that notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, if this Security is a Global Security, payment shall be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as permitted in said Indenture.
provided
however
i.e.
provided further
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Attest:
     
SECTION 203. Form of Reverse of Security.
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of senior securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2008 (herein called the "", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof [if applicable, insertlimited in aggregate principal amount to $______.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
     [If applicable, insert  The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' nor more than 60 days' notice, at any time [if applicable, insert  on or after _________, 20], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the following Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount): If redeemed [if applicable, insert  on or before _________%, and if redeemed] during the 12-month period beginning _________of the years indicated,
__
, ____
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to       % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
     [If the Security is subject to redemption of any kind, insert  In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the
 
unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.]
     [If applicable, insert  The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.]
     [If the Security is not an Original Issue Discount Security, insert  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.]
     [If the Security is an Original Issue Discount Security, insert  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Such amount shall be equal to  insert formula for determining the amount. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal, premium and interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and premium and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.]
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected (considered together as one class for this purpose). The Indenture also contains provisions (i) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected under the Indenture (considered together as one class for this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and (ii) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of any series to be affected under the Indenture (with each such series considered separately for this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee
 
to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     This Security and the Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
     All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
     
SECTION 204. Form of Legend for Global Securities.
     Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for the Securities evidenced thereby, every Global Security authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
     THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
     
SECTION 205. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
     The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
     
SECTION 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
     The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
     The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution and, subject to Section 303, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
     (1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from Securities of any other series);
     (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for
 
Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 303, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
     (3) the Person to whom any interest on a Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest;
     (4) the date or dates on which the principal of any Securities of the series is payable;
     (5) the rate or rates at which any Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which any such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for any such interest payable on any Interest Payment Date;
     (6) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable and the manner in which any payment may be made;
     (7) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which any Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company and, if other than by a Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to redeem the Securities shall be evidenced;
     (8) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase any Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of the Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which any Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
     (9) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any multiple thereof, the denominations in which any Securities of the series shall be issuable;
     (10) if the amount of principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index or pursuant to a formula, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
     (11) if other than the currency of the United States of America, the currency, currencies, composite currency, composite currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable and the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in the currency of the United States of America for any purpose, including for the purposes of making payment in the currency of the United States of America and applying the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 101;
 
     (12) if the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series is to be payable, at the election of the Company or the Holder thereof, in one or more currencies, composite currencies or currency units other than that or those in which such Securities are stated to be payable, the currency, currencies, composite currency, composite currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any premium or interest on such Securities as to which such election is made shall be payable, the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made and the amount so payable (or the manner in which such amount shall be determined);
     (13) if other than the entire principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of any Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502;
     (14) if the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of any Securities of the series will not be determinable as of any one or more dates prior to the Stated Maturity, the amount which shall be deemed to be the principal amount of such Securities as of any such date for any purpose thereunder or hereunder, including the principal amount thereof which shall be due and payable upon any Maturity other than the Stated Maturity or which shall be deemed to be Outstanding as of any date prior to the Stated Maturity (or, in any such case, the manner in which such amount deemed to be the principal amount shall be determined);
     (15) if applicable, that the Securities of the series, in whole or any specified part, shall not be defeasible pursuant to Section 1302 or Section 1303 or both such Sections, and, if such Securities may be defeased, in whole or in part, pursuant to either or both such Sections, any provisions to permit a pledge of obligations other than U.S. Government Obligations (or the establishment of other arrangements) to satisfy the requirements of Section 1304(1) for defeasance of such Securities and, if other than by a Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to defease such Securities shall be evidenced;
     (16) if applicable, that any Securities of the series shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the respective Depositaries for such Global Securities, the form of any legend or legends which shall be borne by any such Global Security in addition to or in lieu of that set forth in Section 204, any addition to, elimination of or other change in the circumstances set forth in Clause (2) of the penultimate paragraph of Section 305 in which any such Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and any transfer of such Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name or names of Persons other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof and any other provisions governing exchanges or transfers of any such Global Security;
     (17) any addition to, elimination of or other change in the Events of Default which applies to any Securities of the series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 502;
 
     (18) any addition to, elimination of or other change in the covenants set forth in Article X which applies to Securities of the series;
     (19) any provisions necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance, payment or conversion of any Securities of the series that may be converted into securities or other property other than Securities of the same series and of like tenor, whether in addition to, or in lieu of, any payment of principal or other amount and whether at the option of the Company or otherwise;
     (20) if applicable, that Persons other than those specified in Section 111 shall have such benefits, rights, remedies and claims with respect to any Securities of the series or under this Indenture with respect to such Securities, as and to the extent provided for such Securities; and
     (21) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 901(5)).
     All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 303) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
     If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
     
SECTION 302. Denominations.
     The Securities of each series shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons and only in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. In the absence of any such specified denomination with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any multiple thereof.
     
SECTION 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
     The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, President or a Vice President of the Company (or any other officer of the Company designated in writing by or pursuant to authority of the Board of Directors and delivered to the Trustee from time to time), under its corporate seal reproduced, which may be by facsimile, thereon attested by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
     Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
 
     At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established by or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
     (1) if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 201, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
     (2) if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
     (3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles and subject to any limitation with respect to payments in currency other than U.S. dollars.
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or prior to the authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
     Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
     No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as
 
provided in Section 309, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
     
SECTION 304. Temporary Securities.
     Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
     If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series and tenor.
     
SECTION 305. Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
     The Company shall cause to be kept at each office or agency of the Company designated as a Place of Payment pursuant to the first paragraph of Section 1002 a register (the register maintained in each such office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. Each such office or agency is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
Security Register
     Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of a series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount.
     At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the
 
Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
     All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
     Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
     No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906 or 1107 not involving any transfer.
     If the Securities of any series (or of any series and specified tenor) are to be redeemed in whole or in part, the Company shall not be required (A) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Securities of that series (or of that series and specified tenor, as the case may be) during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of selection of any such Securities for redemption under Section 1103 and ending at the close of business on the day of such selection, or (B) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
     The provisions of Clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) below shall apply only to Global Securities:
     (1) Each Global Security authenticated under this Indenture shall be registered in the name of the Depositary designated for such Global Security or a nominee thereof and delivered to such Depositary or a nominee thereof or custodian therefor, and each such Global Security shall constitute a single Security for all purposes of this Indenture.
     (2) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, and subject to such applicable provisions, if any, as may be specified as contemplated by Section 301, no Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof unless (A) such Depositary has notified the Company that it (i) is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or (ii) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, or (B) the Company has executed and delivered to the Trustee a Company Order stating that such Global Security shall be exchanged in whole for Securities that are not Global Securities (in which case such exchange shall promptly be effected by the Trustee). If the Company receives a notice of the kind specified in Clause (A) above or has delivered a Company Order of the kind specified in Clause (B)
 
above, it may, in its sole discretion, designate a successor Depositary for such Global Security within 90 days after receiving such notice or delivery of such order, as the case may be. If the Company designates a successor Depositary as aforesaid, such Global Security shall promptly be exchanged in whole for one or more other Global Securities registered in the name of the successor Depositary, whereupon such designated successor shall be the Depositary for such successor Global Security or Global Securities and the provisions of Clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this provision shall continue to apply thereto.
     (3) Subject to Clause (2) above and to such applicable provisions, if any, as may be specified as contemplated by Section 301, any exchange of a Global Security for other Securities may be made in whole or in part, and all Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be registered in such names as the Depositary for such Global Security shall direct.
     (4) Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, whether pursuant to this Section, Section 304, 306, 906 or 1107 or otherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security, unless such Security is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof.
     Every Person who takes or holds any beneficial interest in a Global Security agrees that:
     (1) the Company and the Trustee may deal with the Depositary as sole owner of the Global Security and as the authorized representative of such Person;
     (2) such Person's rights in the Global Security shall be exercised only through the Depositary and shall be limited to those established by law and agreement between such Person and the Depositary and/or direct and indirect participants of the Depositary;
     (3) the Depositary and its participants make book-entry transfers of beneficial ownership among, and receive and transmit distributions of principal and interest on the Global Securities to, such Persons in accordance with the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary; and
     (4) none of the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
     
SECTION 306. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Wrongfully Taken Securities.
     If (a) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee or (b) both (i) there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (A) a claim by a Holder as to the destruction, loss or wrongful taking of any Security of such Holder and a request thereby for a new replacement Security of the same series, and (B) such indemnity bond as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless and (ii) such other reasonable
 
requirements as may be imposed by the Company as permitted by Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code have been satisfied, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a "protected purchaser" within the meaning of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code, the Company shall execute and upon its request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously Outstanding.
     In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
     Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
     Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
     The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Securities.
     
SECTION 307. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
     Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any Securities of a series, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest (or, if no business is conducted by the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office on such date, at 5:00 P.M. New York City time on such date).
     Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
Defaulted Interest
     (1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest payable on any Securities of a series to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each of such Securities and the date of the
 
proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given to each Holder of such Securities in the manner set forth in Section 106, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).
     (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on any Securities of a series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
     Except as may otherwise be provided in this Section 307 or as contemplated in Section 301 with respect to any Securities of a series, the Person to whom interest shall be payable on any Security that first becomes payable on a day that is not an Interest Payment Date shall be the Holder of such Security on the day such interest is paid.
     Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
     In the case of any Security which is converted after any Regular Record Date and on or prior to the next succeeding Interest Payment Date (other than any Security whose Maturity is prior to such Interest Payment Date), interest whose Stated Maturity is on such Interest Payment Date shall be payable on such Interest Payment Date notwithstanding such conversion, and such interest (whether or not punctually paid or duly provided for) shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on such Regular Record Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the immediately preceding sentence, in the case of any Security which is converted, interest whose Stated Maturity is after the date of conversion of such Security shall not be payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms of any Security that may be converted may provide that
 
the provisions of this paragraph do not apply, or apply with such additions, changes or omissions as may be provided thereby, to such Security.
     
SECTION 308. Persons Deemed Owners.
     Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 307) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     
SECTION 309. Cancellation.
     All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or conversion or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly canceled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of as directed by a Company Order; , , that the Trustee shall not be required to destroy such canceled Securities.
provided
however
     
SECTION 310. Computation of Interest.
     Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
     
SECTION 311. CUSIP Numbers.
     The Company in issuing the Securities may use CUSIP numbers (if then generally in use) and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities. Any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such CUSIP numbers.
 
     
SECTION 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
     This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect with respect to the Securities of any series (except as to any surviving rights of conversion, registration of transfer or exchange of any such Security expressly provided for herein or in the terms of such Security), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such Securities, when
     (1) either
     (A) all such Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
     (B) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
     (i) have become due and payable, or
     (ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
     (iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for such purpose money in an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and any premium and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
     (2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to such Securities; and
     (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating
 
to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such Securities have been complied with.
     Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to Securities of any series, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 614, and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of Clause (1) of this Section with respect to such Securities, the obligations of the Company under Section 1002 and the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402, Section 606 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 with respect to such Securities shall survive.
     
SECTION 402. Application of Trust Money.
     Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 with respect to Securities of any series shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and any premium and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee. All moneys deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 (and held by it or any Paying Agent) for the payment of Securities subsequently converted shall be returned to the Company upon Company Request.
     
SECTION 501. Events of Default.
     "", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
Event of Default
     (1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
     (2) default in the payment of the principal of or any premium on any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
     (3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series and continuance of such default for a period of 60 days; or
     (4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which
 
has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
     (5) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days (provided that, if any Person becomes the successor to the Company pursuant to Article VIII and such Person is organized and validly existing under the law of a jurisdiction outside the United States, each reference in this Clause (5) to an applicable Federal or State law of a particular kind shall be deemed to refer to such law or any applicable comparable law of such non-U.S. jurisdiction, for as long as such Person is the successor to the Company hereunder and is so organized and existing); or
     (6) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action (provided that, if any Person becomes the successor to the Company pursuant to Article VIII and such Person is organized and validly existing under the law of a jurisdiction outside the United States, each reference in this Clause (6) to an applicable Federal or State law of a particular kind shall be deemed to refer to such law or any applicable comparable law of such non-U.S. jurisdiction, for as long as such Person is the successor to the Company hereunder and is so organized and existing); or
 
     (7) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series in accordance with Section 301.
     
SECTION 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
     If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or 501(6)) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, in the case of any Security of that series which specifies an amount to be due and payable thereon upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof, such amount as may be specified by the terms thereof) to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or 501(6) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs, the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, in the case of any Security of that series which specifies an amount to be due and payable thereon upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof, such amount as may be specified by the terms thereof) shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become immediately due and payable.
     At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
     (1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
     (A) all overdue interest on all Securities of that series,
     (B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and any interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
     (C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
     (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and
     (2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513.
 
     No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     
SECTION 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
     The Company covenants that if
     (1) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 60 days, or
     (2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof,
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
     
SECTION 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
     In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. The Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
     No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding;
 
, , that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee.
provided
however
     
SECTION 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.
     All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
     
SECTION 506. Application of Money Collected.
     Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
     FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 607;
     SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest, respectively; and
     THIRD: To remit the balance, if any, to the Company.
     
SECTION 507. Limitation on Suits.
     No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
     (1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
     (2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
     (3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
 
     (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
     (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
     
SECTION 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest and to Convert.
     Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 307) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date), and, if the terms of such Security so provide, to convert such Security in accordance with its terms, and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment and, if applicable, any such right to convert, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
     
SECTION 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
     If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
     
SECTION 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
     Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Securities in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
 
     
SECTION 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
     No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
     
SECTION 512. Control by Holders.
     The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, provided that
     (1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture;
     (2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction; and
     (3) subject to the provisions of Section 601, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that the proceeding so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
     
SECTION 513. Waiver of Past Defaults.
     The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default
     (1) in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series, or
     (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article IX cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
     Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon. A waiver of any past default and its consequences given by or on behalf of any Holder of the Securities in connection with a purchase of, or tender or exchange offer for, such Holder's Securities will not be rendered invalid by such purchase, tender or exchange.
 
     
SECTION 514. Undertaking for Costs.
     In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; provided that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company or the Trustee or, if applicable, in any suit for the enforcement of the right to convert any Security in accordance with its terms.
     
SECTION 515. Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws.
     The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any usury, stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
     
SECTION 601. Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
     Except during the continuance of an Event of Default,
     (1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and as are provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and, except for implied covenants or obligations under the Trust Indenture Act, no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
     (2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
     In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
 
     No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that
     (1) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of the first paragraph of this Section;
     (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
     (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, determined as provided in Section 512, relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series; and
     (4) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
     Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
     
SECTION 602. Notice of Defaults.
     If a default occurs hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee shall give the Holders of Securities of such series notice of such default as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act; , , that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 60 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
provided
however
     
SECTION 603. Certain Rights of Trustee.
     Subject to the provisions of Section 601:
     (1) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
     (2) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order, and any resolution of the Board of Directors shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
     (3) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) shall be entitled to receive and may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
     (4) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
     (5) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
     (6) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
     (7) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder and shall not be responsible for the supervision of officers and employees of such agents or attorneys;
     (8) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded;
     (9) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
 
     (10) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture; and
     (11) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including its rights to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder.
     
SECTION 604. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
     The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee does not assume any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
     
SECTION 605. May Hold Securities.
     The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
     
SECTION 606. Money Held in Trust.
     Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
     
SECTION 607. Compensation and Reimbursement.
     The Company agrees
     (1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as the Company and Trustee shall agree in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
     (2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct; and
 
     (3) to indemnify each of the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee and its officers, directors, agents and employees for, and to hold it harmless against, any and all losses, liabilities, damages, claims or expenses including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the earnings or income of the Trustee) incurred without negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, a Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
     As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on Securities.
     Without limiting any rights available to the Trustee under applicable law, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or Section 501(6), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
     The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture.
     
SECTION 608. Conflicting Interests.
     If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. To the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest by virtue of being a trustee under this Indenture with respect to Securities of more than one series.
     
SECTION 609. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
     There shall at all times be one (and only one) Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of each series, which may be Trustee hereunder for Securities of one or more other series. Each Trustee shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such, has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and has its Corporate Trust Office in the continental United States of America. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
 
     
SECTION 610. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
     No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.
     The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 60 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
     The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of a notice of removal pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee being removed may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
     If at any time:
     (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
     (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
     (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (A) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (B) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
     If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If an
 
instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of removal, the Trustee being removed may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
     The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
     
SECTION 611. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
     In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
     In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring
 
Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
     Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the first or second preceding paragraph, as the case may be.
     No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
     
SECTION 612. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
     Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
     
SECTION 613. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
     If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor).
     
SECTION 614. Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
     The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to any series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate the Securities of such Series issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer, partial conversion or partial redemption or pursuant to Section 306, and Securities of such series so
 
authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities of such series by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent so appointed with respect to such series and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent so appointed with respect to such series. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
     Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee, the Company, the Authenticating Agent or such successor corporation.
     An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent with respect to any series of Securities which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 106. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
     The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed by the Company for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 607.
     If an appointment is made pursuant to this Section with respect to Securities of any series, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
     
SECTION 701. Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
     The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee
     (1) semi-annually, not later than May 15 and November 15 in each year, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of each series as of the immediately preceding May 1 or November 1 as the case may be, and
     (2) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
excluding from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
     
SECTION 702. Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
     The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
     The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
     Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
 
     
SECTION 703. Reports by Trustee.
     The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.
     Reports so required to be transmitted at stated intervals of not more than 12 months shall be transmitted no later than May 15 and shall be dated as of May 1 in each calendar year, commencing in 2009.
     A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
     
SECTION 704. Reports by Company.
     The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
     
SECTION 801. Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
     The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or sell, convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all its properties and assets to any Person, and the Company shall not permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the Company, unless:
     (1) in case the Company shall consolidate with or merge into another Person or sell, convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all its properties and assets to any Person, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by sale, conveyance or transfer, or which leases, all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company shall be a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or trust, shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on all the Securities and the performance or
 
observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed and, for each Security that by its terms provides for conversion, shall have provided for the right to convert such Security in accordance with its terms;
     (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company or such Subsidiary at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
     (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
     
SECTION 802. Successor Substituted.
     Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any sale, conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
     
SECTION 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
     Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
     (1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or
     (2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
 
     (3) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such additional Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such additional Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series); or
     (4) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in bearer form, registrable or not registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons, or to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form; or
     (5) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination (A) shall neither (i) apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor (ii) modify the rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (B) shall become effective only when there is no such Security Outstanding; or
     (6) to secure the Securities; or
     (7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or
     (8) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 611; or
     (9) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture with respect to any Securities that by their terms may be converted into securities or other property other than Securities of the same series and of like tenor, in order to permit or facilitate the issuance, payment or conversion of such Securities; or
     (10) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, provided that such action pursuant to this Clause (10) shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect.
     The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Company in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer, assignment, mortgage or pledge of any property thereunder, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
     
SECTION 902. Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Holders.
     With the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such supplemental indenture, considered together as one class for this purpose (plus, if and as the terms applicable to any such affected series pursuant to Section 301 so provide, the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such affected series or of any other Persons acting on behalf of such Holders), by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
provided
however
     (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security or any other Security which would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, or permit the Company to redeem any Security if, absent such supplemental indenture, the Company would not be permitted to do so, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or
     (2) if any Security provides that the Holder may require the Company to repurchase or convert such Security, impair such Holder's right to require repurchase or conversion of such Security on the terms provided therein, or
     (3) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any one or more series (considered separately or together as one class, as applicable), the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or
     (4) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1006, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; , , that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 1006, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 611 and 901(8).
provided
however
 
     A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
     It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof. A consent to any indenture supplemental hereto by or on behalf of any Holder of the Securities given in connection with a purchase of, or tender or exchange offer for, such Holder's Securities will not be rendered invalid by such purchase, tender or exchange.
     
SECTION 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
     In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel and Officers' Certificate stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
     
SECTION 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
     Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
     
SECTION 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
     Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
     
SECTION 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
     Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
 
     
SECTION 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
     The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
     
SECTION 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency.
     The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, where Securities may be surrendered for conversion and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
     To the extent the Place of Payment for any series of Securities is New York, New York, the Company hereby initially designates as such office and as Paying Agent the Trustee acting through The Bank of New York Mellon, 101 Barclay, 7 East, New York, NY 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust.
     The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
     With respect to any Global Security, and except as otherwise may be specified for such Global Security as contemplated by Section 301, the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee shall be the Place of Payment where such Global Security may be presented or surrendered for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange, or where successor Securities may be delivered in exchange therefor, , , that any such payment, presentation, surrender or delivery effected pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary for such Global Security shall be deemed to have been effected at the Place of Payment for such Global Security in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
provided
however
     
SECTION 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust.
 
     If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium and interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
     Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit (or, if the Company has deposited any trust funds with a trustee pursuant to Section 1304(1), cause such trustee to deposit) with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
     The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (1) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (2) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities of that series, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities of that series.
     The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
     Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may, at the expense of the Company, cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
 
     
SECTION 1004. Corporate Existence
     Subject to Article VIII, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence.
     
SECTION 1005. Statement by Officers as to Default.
     The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
     
SECTION 1006. Waiver of Certain Covenants.
     Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of a specific series, the Company may, with respect to the Securities of any one or more series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Section 1004 or in any covenant provided pursuant to Section 301(18), 901(2), 901(6) or 901(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such series or in Article VIII if, before the time for such compliance, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such waiver, considered together as one class for this purpose (plus, if and as the terms applicable to any such affected series pursuant to Section 301 so provide, the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such affected series or of any other Persons acting on behalf of such Holders) shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect. A waiver of compliance given by or on behalf of any Holder of the Securities in connection with a purchase of, or tender or exchange offer for, such Holder's Securities will not be rendered invalid by such purchase, tender or exchange.
     
SECTION 1101. Applicability of Article.
     Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities) in accordance with this Article.
     
SECTION 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
     The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such
 
Securities. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series (including any such redemption affecting only a single Security), the Company shall, at least 5 Business Days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date, of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities (1) prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, or (2) pursuant to an election of the Company that is subject to a condition specified in the terms of the Securities of the series to be redeemed, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction or condition.
     
SECTION 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed.
     If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed or unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 40 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such series, provided that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security. If less than all the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed (unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 40 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series and specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence.
     If any Security selected for partial redemption is converted in part before termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Security so selected, the converted portion of such Security shall be deemed (so far as it may be) to be the portion selected for redemption. Securities which have been converted during a selection of Securities to be redeemed shall be treated by the Trustee as Outstanding for the purpose of such selection.
     The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and each Security Registrar in writing of the Securities selected for redemption as aforesaid and, in case of any Securities selected for partial redemption as aforesaid, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
     The provisions of the two preceding paragraphs shall not apply with respect to any redemption affecting only a single Security, whether such Security is to be redeemed in whole or in part. In the case of any such redemption in part, the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of the Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security.
     For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to
 
be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
     
SECTION 1104. Notice of Redemption.
     Notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided in Section 106 not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
     All notices of redemption shall identify the Securities to be redeemed (including CUSIP numbers, if any) and shall state:
     (1) the Redemption Date,
     (2) the Redemption Price,
     (3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of more than a single Security are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption of any such Securities, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed and, if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of a single Security are to be redeemed, the principal amount of the particular Security to be redeemed,
     (4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
     (5) the place or places where each such Security is to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price,
     (6) for any Securities that by their terms may be converted, the terms of conversion, the date on which the right to convert the Security to be redeemed will terminate and the place or places where such Securities may be surrendered for conversion, and
     (7) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case.
     Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.
     
SECTION 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price.
     Prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date, other than any
 
Securities called for redemption on that date which have been converted prior to the date of such deposit.
     If any Security called for redemption is converted, any money deposited with the Trustee or with any Paying Agent or so segregated and held in trust for the redemption of such Security shall (subject to any right of the Holder of such Security or any Predecessor Security to receive interest as provided in the last paragraph of Section 307 or in the terms of such Security) be paid to the Company upon Company Request or, if then held by the Company, shall be discharged from such trust.
     
SECTION 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
     Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; , , that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
provided
however
     If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
     
SECTION 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part.
     Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
     
SECTION 1201. Applicability of Article.
     The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of any series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities.
 
     The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of any Securities is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of such Securities is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of any Securities, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities as provided for by the terms of such Securities.
     
SECTION 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
     The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been converted in accordance with their terms or which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to any Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as and to the extent provided for by the terms of such Securities; provided that the Securities to be so credited have not been previously so credited. The Securities to be so credited shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price, as specified in the Securities so to be redeemed (or at such other prices as may be specified for such Securities as contemplated in Section 301), for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
     
SECTION 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
     Not less than 45 days (or such shorter period as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) prior to each sinking fund payment date for any Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for such Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities pursuant to Section 1202 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days prior to each such sinking fund payment date, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.
     
SECTION 1301. Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
     Unless otherwise designated pursuant to Section 301(15), the Securities of any series of Securities shall be subject to defeasance or covenant defeasance pursuant to such Section 1302 or
 
1303, in accordance with any applicable requirements provided pursuant to Section 301 and upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article. The Company may elect, at its option, at any time, to have Section 1302 or Section 1303 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities so subject to defeasance or covenant defeasance. Any such election shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities.
     
SECTION 1302. Defeasance and Discharge.
     Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1304 are satisfied (hereinafter called ""). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Securities and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (1) the rights of Holders of such Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1304(1) and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities when payments are due, (2) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003, (3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (4) this Article. Subject to compliance with this Article, the Company may exercise its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option (if any) to have Section 1303 applied to such Securities.
Defeasance
     
SECTION 1303. Covenant Defeasance.
     Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, (1) the Company shall be released from its obligations under Section 1004 and any covenants provided pursuant to Section 301(18), 901(2), 901(6) or 901(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, and (2) the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 501(4) (with respect to Section 1004, and any such covenants provided pursuant to Section 301(18), 901(2), 901(6) or 901(7)) and 501(7) shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event of Default, in each case with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1304 are satisfied (hereinafter called ""). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to such Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 501(4)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
Covenant Defeasance
 
     
SECTION 1304. Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
     The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 1302 or Section 1303 to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be:
     (1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee which satisfies the requirements contemplated by Section 609 and agrees to comply with the provisions of this Article applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefits of the Holders of such Securities, (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) such other obligations or arrangements as may be specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to such Securities, or (D) a combination thereof, in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or any such other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities on the respective Stated Maturities, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and such Securities. As used herein, "" means (x) any security which is (i) a direct obligation of the United States of America for the payment of which the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged or (ii) an obligation of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case (i) or (ii), is not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and (y) any depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a) (2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any U.S. Government Obligation which is specified in Clause (x) above and held by such bank for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt, or with respect to any specific payment of principal of or interest on any U.S. Government Obligation which is so specified and held, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal or interest evidenced by such depositary receipt.
U.S. Government Obligation
     (2) In the event of an election to have Section 1302 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this instrument, there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, Defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same
 
manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit, Defeasance and discharge were not to occur.
     (3) In the event of an election to have Section 1303 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and Covenant Defeasance to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit and Covenant Defeasance were not to occur.
     (4) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that neither such Securities nor any other Securities of the same series, if then listed on any securities exchange, will be delisted as a result of such deposit.
     (5) No event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to such Securities or any other Securities (other than such an event or Event of Default solely with respect to such Securities resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit) shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such deposit.
     (6) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
     (7) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of such Securities over the other creditors of the Company or with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company.
     (8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent with respect to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
     
SECTION 1305. Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Miscellaneous Provisions.
     Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 1306, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the "") pursuant to Section 1304 in respect of any Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money and U.S. Government Obligations so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Trustee
 
     The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1304 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of Outstanding Securities.
     Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 1304 with respect to any Securities which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect the Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance, as the case may be, with respect to such Securities.
     
SECTION 1306. Reinstatement.
     If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the obligations under this Indenture and such Securities from which the Company has been discharged or released pursuant to Section 1302 or 1303 shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article with respect to such Securities, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 1305 with respect to such Securities in accordance with this Article; , , that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any such Security following such reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights (if any) of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money so held in trust.
provided
however
     This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 4.2
     In accordance with the resolutions of the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors of Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") dated October 23, 2008, the undersigned officers of the Company hereby adopt this Officers' Certificate for the purpose of establishing two series of Securities (collectively, the "Notes") under the Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2008 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. This Officers' Certificate is executed pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture. In addition to the terms provided in the Indenture with respect to any series of Securities issued thereunder, the terms of the Notes shall be as follows (capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein having the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture):
     (1) The respective titles of the two series of the Notes shall be the "6.50% Senior Notes due 2013" (the "First Series") and the "7.50% Senior Notes due 2018" (the "Second Series", and, together with the First Series, the "Series"), respectively, of the Company.
     (2) (a) The aggregate principal amount of Notes of the First Series which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is limited to $500,000,000 (plus such additional amounts of Notes of the First Series as may be authorized for issuance from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution and set forth in an Officers' Certificate prior to the issuance thereof) except for Notes of the First Series authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes of the First Series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 of the Indenture.
     (b) The aggregate principal amount of Notes of the Second Series which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is limited to $750,000,000 (plus such additional amounts of Notes of the Second Series as may be authorized for issuance from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution and set forth in an Officers' Certificate prior to the issuance thereof) except for Notes of the Second Series authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes of the Second Series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 of the Indenture.
     (3) The principal of the Notes shall be payable on, with respect to the First Series, November 15, 2013 and, with respect to the Second Series, November 15, 2018.
     (4) The Notes of the First Series shall bear interest at the rate of 6.50% per annum and the Notes of the Second Series shall bear interest at the rate of 7.50% per annum, in each case from October 28, 2008 or the most recent May 15 or November 15 to which interest has been paid or duly provided for on the Notes. Each May 15 or November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2009,
 
shall be an "Interest Payment Date" for the Notes. The May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding an Interest Payment Date shall be the "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date. Interest shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months.
     (5) The principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Notes of each Series shall be payable (x) if the Notes of a Series are Global Securities, through the relevant Depositary or (y) if the Notes of a Series are not Global Securities, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in New York, New York, against surrender of such Note in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal thereof or any payment of interest that becomes payable on a day other than an Interest Payment Date, and in the case of clause (x) or clause (y), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , that if the Notes of a Series are not Global Securities, (i) payment of interest on an Interest Payment Date will be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; and all other payments will be made by check against surrender of such Notes; (ii) all payments by check will be made in next-day funds (i.e., funds that become available on the day after the check is cashed); and (iii) notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii) above, with respect to any payment of any amount due on the Notes of a Series, if such Note is in a denomination of at least $1,000,000 and the Holder thereof at the time of surrender thereof or, in the case of any payment of interest on any Interest Payment Date, the Holder thereof on the related Regular Record Date delivers a written request to the Paying Agent to make such payment by wire transfer at least five Business Days before the date such payment becomes due, together with appropriate wire transfer instructions specifying an account at a bank in New York, New York, the Company shall make such payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account at such bank in New York City, any such wire instructions, once properly given by a Holder as to such Notes, remaining in effect as to such Holder and such Notes unless and until new instructions are given in the manner described above and , that notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, if the Notes of a Series are Global Securities, payment shall be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the relevant Depositary. In accordance with Section 1002 of the Indenture, the "Place of Payment" with respect to the Notes of each Series shall be New York, New York.
provided,
however
provided
further
     (6) The Notes of a Series shall be subject to redemption, as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the option of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the date on which the Notes are to be redeemed on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-
 
day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points in the case of the First Series or 50 basis points in the case of the Second Series, plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid on the Notes to be redeemed to the date on which the Notes are to be redeemed (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes of a Series are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee will select Notes for redemption on a pro rata basis. No Notes of $2,000 or less can be redeemed in part. Notices of redemption will be delivered at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes of a Series to be redeemed at its registered address, except that notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if the notice is issued in connection with a Covenant Defeasance or Defeasance with respect to the Notes of such Series or a satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture with respect to Notes of such Series. Notice of any redemption, may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to one or more conditions precedent. A notice of redemption need not set forth the exact Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.
     "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Notes of a Series, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue with respect to such Series (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity for the Notes of such Series, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (ii) if that release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
     "Comparable Treasury Issue" means, with respect to the Notes of a Series, the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes of such Series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes of such
 
Series to be redeemed. "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
     "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for any Notes (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and one other primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (each, a "Primary Treasury Dealer") appointed by the Trustee in consultation with the Company; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day preceding that Redemption Date.
(7) (a) So long as any of the Notes of a Series remain outstanding, subject to paragraph 7(c) below, the Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, assume or guarantee any debt for money borrowed ("debt") if that debt is secured by a mortgage on any Principal Property, or on any shares of stock or indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary (whether the Principal Property, shares of stock or indebtedness is owned at or acquired after October 28, 2008), without in any such case effectively providing that the Notes of such Series shall be secured equally and ratably with or prior to such debt until such time as such debt is no longer so secured by such mortgage. This restriction, however, shall not apply to:
     (i) mortgages on property of any corporation or other Person existing at the time such corporation or other Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary;
     (ii) mortgages on property of a corporation or other Person existing at the time that corporation or other Person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, transfer, conveyance or the disposition of all or substantially all of
 
the properties or assets of that corporation or other Person to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary;
     (iii) mortgages on any property the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary acquires, constructs or improves that secure debt issued, assumed or guaranteed (or issued, assumed or guaranteed pursuant to a commitment entered into) prior to, at the time of or within 12 months after the acquisition or completion of construction or improvement of the property (or, in the case of property constructed or improved, if later, the commencement of commercial operation of the property) for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price of the property or the cost of the construction or improvement (together with, in the case of construction or improvement, mortgages on property previously owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to the extent constituting unimproved real property on which the property being constructed or the improvement is located);
     (iv) mortgages securing debt owing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary;
     (v) mortgages on property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in favor of the United States of America or any State thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any State thereof, or in favor of any other country, or any political subdivision thereof, to secure any debt incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of construction or improvement of the property subject to such mortgages, including mortgages incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financings;
     (vi) mortgages existing at the date of the original issuance of the Notes;
     (vii) mortgages on inventory to secure current liabilities of debt; and
     (viii) any extension, renewal or replacement or successive extensions, renewals or replacements, in whole or in part, of any mortgage referred to in the clauses immediately above if the amount of debt secured by the extended, renewed or replacement mortgage does not
 
exceed the amount of the debt refinanced (plus accrued interest and premiums with respect thereto) plus transaction expenses related thereto and such mortgage is limited to the property secured by the original mortgage plus improvements thereon.
     (b) So long as any of the Notes of a Series remain outstanding, subject to paragraph 7(c) below, the Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction of any Principal Property unless (i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled to issue, assume or guarantee debt secured by a mortgage upon the Principal Property involved in amount at least equal to the Attributable Debt for that transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes of such Series, (ii) an amount in cash equal to the Attributable Debt for that transaction is applied prior to, at the time of or within 12 months after that transaction to the retirement of Notes of either Series or other debt of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, which by its terms matures at or is extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor to a date more than 12 months after its creation and which, in the case of such debt of the Company, is not subordinate in right of payment to the Notes of such Series or (iii) prior to, at the time of or within 12 months after such transaction, the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary uses an amount equal to the Attributable Debt for the purchase of any asset or any interest in an asset which would qualify, after purchase, as Principal Property. This covenant does not apply to any Sales and Leaseback Transaction (i) entered into in connection with an industrial revenue, pollution control or similar financing or any Sale and Leaseback Transaction or (ii) in which the only parties involved are the Company and any Subsidiary or Subsidiaries. When calculating the amount of Attributable Debt, any Attributable Debt for these Sale and Leaseback Transactions will be excluded.
     (c) In addition to the exceptions set forth under paragraphs 7(a) and 7(b) above, the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary may incur debt secured by mortgages and enter into additional Sale and Leaseback Transactions otherwise prohibited by (and not permitted under the exceptions to) paragraphs 7(a) or 7(b) as long as the total of such debt secured by mortgages plus the Attributable Debt in respect of such Sale and Leaseback Transactions does not exceed 15% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
     (d) For purposes of this paragraph 7, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
     "Attributable Debt" means, with respect to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as of the time of determination, the total obligation, discounted to present value at the annual rate equal to the discount rate which would be applicable to a capital lease obligation with a similar term in accordance with GAAP, of a lessee for rental payments (other than amounts required to be paid on account of property taxes, maintenance, repairs, insurance, water rates and other
 
items which do not constitute payments for property rights) during the remaining portion of the initial term of the lease with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction.
     "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the total amount of assets less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items after deducting (a) all current liabilities excluding any thereof which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount thereof is being computed, and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, purchased technology, unamortized debt discount and other like intangible assets, all as determined on a consolidated basis for the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as set forth on the Company's most recent quarterly balance sheet and computed in accordance with GAAP.
     "Principal Property" means any real property, manufacturing plant, warehouse, office building or other physical facility, or any item of marine, transportation or construction equipment or other like depreciable assets of the Company or of any Restricted Subsidiary, whether owned at or acquired after October 28, 2008, unless, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, such plant or facility or other assets is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
     "Restricted Subsidiary" means:
     "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means any arrangement with any Person under which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary leases for a term of more than three years any Principal Property that the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary has sold or transferred or will sell or transfer to that Person. This term excludes leases of any Principal Property the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary acquires or places in service within 180 days prior to the arrangement.
     (8) At any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, so long as any Notes of a Series remain
 
outstanding, upon the request of a holder of Notes of such Series, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished the information specified under Rule 144A(d)(4) of the Securities Act to such holder.
     (9) The covenants set forth in paragraphs (7) and (8) hereof with respect to Notes of a Series are applicable only to the Securities of the First Series or the Second Series, as applicable, and are solely for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes of such Series.
     (10) The Notes shall not be subject to redemption at the option of the Holders or to a sinking fund requirement.
     (11) The Notes shall be issuable in minimum denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
     (12) The provisions of Section 1302 and Section 1303 of the Indenture with respect to Defeasance of the Notes of a Series and Covenant Defeasance of the Notes of a Series, respectively, shall be applicable to the Notes of each Series.
     (13) The Notes of each Series shall be issued initially wholly in the form of one or more Global Securities and The Depository Trust Company shall be the initial Depositary with respect thereto.
     (14) The forms of the Notes of the First Series and the Second Series shall be in substantially the respective forms set forth in Exhibit 1 and Exhibit 2 attached hereto pursuant to Article II of the Indenture.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has duly executed this Officers' Certificate this 28th day of October, 2008.
 
 

Exhibit 4.3
     [Include if Global Security  THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.]
     [Include if Global Security and the Depositary therefor is DTC  Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to Issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.]
DTC
     BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to                             , or registered assigns, the principal sum of __________________ Dollars on November 15, 2013, and to pay interest thereon from October 28, 2008 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2009, and at the Maturity thereof, at the rate of 6.50% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest so payable, but not punctually paid or duly provided for, will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at
Company
 
the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Security may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
     Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made (x) if this Security is a Global Security, through the Depositary or (y) if this Security is not a Global Security, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in New York, New York, against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal thereof or any payment of interest that becomes payable on a day other than an Interest Payment Date, and in the case of clause (x) or clause (y), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that if this Security is not a Global Security, (i) payment of interest on an Interest Payment Date will be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; and all other payments will be made by check against surrender of this Security; (ii) all payments by check will be made in next-day funds (, funds that become available on the day after the check is cashed); and (iii) notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii) above, with respect to any payment of any amount due on this Security, if this Security is in a denomination of at least $1,000,000 and the Holder hereof at the time of surrender hereof or, in the case of any payment of interest on any Interest Payment Date, the Holder thereof on the related Regular Record Date delivers a written request to the Paying Agent to make such payment by wire transfer at least five Business Days before the date such payment becomes due, together with appropriate wire transfer instructions specifying an account at a bank in New York, New York, the Company shall make such payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account at such bank in New York City, any such wire instructions, once properly given by a Holder as to this Security, remaining in effect as to such Holder and this Security unless and until new instructions are given in the manner described above and , that notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, if this Security is a Global Security, payment shall be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as permitted in said Indenture.
provided
however
i.e.
provided further
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
                    
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of senior securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2008 (herein called the "", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof limited in aggregate principal amount to $500,000,000 (plus such additional amounts of Securities of this series as may be authorized for issuance from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution and set forth in an Officers' Certificate prior to the issuance thereof) except for Securities of this series authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of this series pursuant to the Indenture.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
     The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon prior notice, as provided below, at any time, as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities of this series to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities of this series to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Securities of this series to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the date on which the Securities of this series are to be redeemed on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, plus any interest accrued but not paid on the Securities of this series to be redeemed to the date on which the Securities of this series are to be redeemed (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Securities of this series or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Securities of this series are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee will select Securities of this series for redemption on a pro rata basis. No Securities of this series of $2,000 or less can be redeemed in part. Notices of redemption will be delivered at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Securities of this series to be redeemed at its registered address, except that notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if the notice is issued in connection with a Covenant Defeasance or Defeasance with respect to the Securities of this series or a satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture with respect to Securities of this series. Notice of any redemption, may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to one or more conditions precedent. A notice of redemption need not set forth the exact Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.
     "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Securities of this series, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States
 
Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue with respect to Securities of this series (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity Date for the Securities of this series, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (ii) if that release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
     "Comparable Treasury Issue" means, with respect to the Securities of this series, the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities of this series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities of this series to be redeemed. "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
     "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for any Securities of this series (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and one other primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (each, a "Primary Treasury Dealer") appointed by the Trustee in consultation with the Company; , , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
provided
however
     "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day preceding that Redemption Date.
     In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
 
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected (considered together as one class for this purpose). The Indenture also contains provisions (i) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected under the Indenture (considered together as one class for this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and (ii) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of any series to be affected under the Indenture (with each such series considered separately for this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one
 
or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     This Security and the Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
     All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 4.4
     [Include if Global Security  THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.]
     [Include if Global Security and the Depositary therefor is DTC  Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to Issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.]
DTC
     BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to                         , or registered assigns, the principal sum of Dollars on November 15, 2018, and to pay interest thereon from October 28, 2008 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2009, and at the Maturity thereof, at the rate of 7.50% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest so payable, but not punctually paid or duly provided for, will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at
Company
                    
                    
 
the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Security may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
     Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made (x) if this Security is a Global Security, through the Depositary or (y) if this Security is not a Global Security, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in New York, New York, against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal thereof or any payment of interest that becomes payable on a day other than an Interest Payment Date, and in the case of clause (x) or clause (y), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that if this Security is not a Global Security, (i) payment of interest on an Interest Payment Date will be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; and all other payments will be made by check against surrender of this Security; (ii) all payments by check will be made in next-day funds (, funds that become available on the day after the check is cashed); and (iii) notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii) above, with respect to any payment of any amount due on this Security, if this Security is in a denomination of at least $1,000,000 and the Holder hereof at the time of surrender hereof or, in the case of any payment of interest on any Interest Payment Date, the Holder thereof on the related Regular Record Date delivers a written request to the Paying Agent to make such payment by wire transfer at least five Business Days before the date such payment becomes due, together with appropriate wire transfer instructions specifying an account at a bank in New York, New York, the Company shall make such payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account at such bank in New York City, any such wire instructions, once properly given by a Holder as to this Security, remaining in effect as to such Holder and this Security unless and until new instructions are given in the manner described above and , that notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, if this Security is a Global Security, payment shall be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as permitted in said Indenture.
provided
however
i.e.
provided further
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
                       
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of senior securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2008 (herein called the "", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof limited in aggregate principal amount to $750,000,000 (plus such additional amounts of Securities of this series as may be authorized for issuance from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution and set forth in an Officers' Certificate prior to the issuance thereof) except for Securities of this series authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of this series pursuant to the Indenture.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
     The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon prior notice, as provided below, at any time, as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities of this series to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities of this series to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Securities of this series to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the date on which the Securities of this series are to be redeemed on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, plus any interest accrued but not paid on the Securities of this series to be redeemed to the date on which the Securities of this series are to be redeemed (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Securities of this series or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Securities of this series are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee will select Securities of this series for redemption on a pro rata basis. No Securities of this series of $2,000 or less can be redeemed in part. Notices of redemption will be delivered at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Securities of this series to be redeemed at its registered address, except that notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if the notice is issued in connection with a Covenant Defeasance or Defeasance with respect to the Securities of this series or a satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture with respect to Securities of this series. Notice of any redemption, may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to one or more conditions precedent. A notice of redemption need not set forth the exact Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.
     "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Securities of this series, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States
 
Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue with respect to Securities of this series (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity Date for the Securities of this series, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (ii) if that release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
     "Comparable Treasury Issue" means, with respect to the Securities of this series, the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities of this series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities of this series to be redeemed. "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
     "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for any Securities of this series (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and one other primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (each, a "Primary Treasury Dealer") appointed by the Trustee in consultation with the Company; , , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
provided
however
     "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day preceding that Redemption Date.
     In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
 
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected (considered together as one class for this purpose). The Indenture also contains provisions (i) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected under the Indenture (considered together as one class for this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and (ii) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of any series to be affected under the Indenture (with each such series considered separately for this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one
 
or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     This Security and the Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
     All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 5.1
Baker Hughes Incorporated 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100 Houston, TX 77019
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as special counsel to Baker Hughes Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the registration, pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-145888)(the ""), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), of the offering and sale by the Company of $1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of senior notes, in two series, consisting of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.50% senior notes due 2013 (the "") and $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.50% senior notes due 2018 (the "" and, collectively with the First Series, the "") of the Company to be issued under an Indenture (the "") dated as of October 28, 2008 between the Company and Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, and sold pursuant to the terms of an underwriting agreement (the "") dated October 23, 2008 executed by the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters (the ""). This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Act.
Company
Registration Statement
Commission
Act
First Series
Second Series
Securities
Indenture
Underwriting Agreement
Underwriters
     We have examined originals or certified copies of such corporate records of the Company and other certificates and documents of officials of the Company, public officials and others as we have deemed appropriate for purposes of this letter. We have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to authentic original documents of all copies submitted to us as conformed, certified or reproduced copies, and that the Securities will conform to the specimen thereof we have reviewed. We have also assumed that the Indenture is a valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms. As to various questions of fact relevant to this letter, we have relied, without independent investigation,
 
Baker Hughes Incorporated October 28, 2008 Page 2
upon certificates of public officials and certificates of officers of the Company, all of which we assume to be true, correct and complete.
     Based upon the foregoing and subject to the assumptions, exceptions, qualifications and limitations set forth herein, we are of the opinion that when the Securities have been duly executed by the Company, duly authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, the Securities will be valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
     The opinions and other matters in this letter are qualified in their entirety and subject to the following:
     We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Commission on or about the date hereof, to the incorporation by reference of this opinion into the Registration Statement and to the use of our name in the Prospectus dated October 3, 2007, and the Prospectus Supplement dated October 23, 2008,
 
Baker Hughes Incorporated October 28, 2008 Page 3
forming a part of the Registration Statement under the caption "Legal Matters." In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.


