FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20090429060222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 29, 2009, the Company issued a news release announcing its financial results for the quarter ending March 31, 2009, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Following the issuance of the news release and the filing of this current report on Form 8-K, the Company will hold a conference call on Wednesday, April 29 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time, 7:30 a.m. central time, to discuss the earnings announcement. This scheduled conference call was previously announced on April 2, 2009. To access the call, which is open to the public, please call the conference call operator at 800-374-2469 or 706-645-9291 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay of the call and the web cast will be available through Wednesday, May 13, 2009. The number for the replay of the call is 800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 for international callers and the access code is 93158395. The call and replay will also be web cast on .
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") that were included in the news release, certain information discussed in the news release and to be discussed on the conference call could be considered non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G). Any non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, or superior to, net income (loss), income (loss) from continuing operations, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. Reconciliations of such non-GAAP information to the closest GAAP measures are included in the news release and can be found on the Company's website at in the Financial Information section under the heading "Impact of Non-Operational Items" and in the applicable earnings releases under the "Earnings Releases" heading.
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 29, 2009, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Also, see Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
     (c) Exhibits.
    99.1  News Release of Baker Hughes Incorporated dated April 29, 2009.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Baker Hughes Announces First Quarter Results
HOUSTON, Texas  April 29, 2009. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE) today announced that net income for the first quarter 2009 was $195 million or $0.63 per diluted share compared to $395 million or $1.27 per diluted share for the first quarter 2008 and $432 million or $1.41 per diluted share for the fourth quarter 2008. Net income for the first quarter 2009 includes expenses of approximately $83 million before tax (or approximately $0.19 per share) comprised of $54 million (or approximately $0.12 per share) associated with employee severance and approximately $29 million (or approximately $0.07 per share) associated with increasing our allowance for doubtful accounts. Net income for the first quarter 2008 included a pre-tax gain of $28 million (approximately $18 million after-tax or $0.06 per diluted share) from the sale of a product line and net income for the fourth quarter 2008 included an impairment of auction rate securities of $25 million after-tax ($0.08 per diluted share).
Revenue for the first quarter 2009 was $2.67 billion, equal to the $2.67 billion for the first quarter 2008 and down 16% compared to $3.19 billion for the fourth quarter 2008. North America revenue for the first quarter 2009 was $1.08 billion, down 8% compared to $1.18 billion for the first quarter 2008 and down 23% compared to $1.41 billion for the fourth quarter 2008. Revenue outside of North America for the first quarter 2009 was $1.59 billion, up 6% compared to $1.49 billion for the first quarter 2008 and down 11% compared to $1.78 billion for the fourth quarter 2008.
Chad C. Deaton, Baker Hughes chairman, president and chief executive officer, said "Our first quarter results for North America reflect the severe contraction in customer spending and activity. Profit from North America operations was impacted by significantly lower activity levels, severance charges and price deterioration. Results from operations outside North America reflected the relative strength of international markets as contraction in the Saudi Arabia, Russia, Caspian and UK markets was partially offset by strength in the Latin America, Norway, and Africa markets. Profitability was also impacted negatively by changes in foreign exchange rates and charges related to severance and allowances for doubtful accounts.
 
"Looking forward, the fundamentals that drive our outlook are essentially unchanged. We expect customer activity in North America to continue to decline, and see little chance of a recovery before the end of the year. Internationally, oil prices and the strength of the global economy remain the most critical factors for determining international spending and activity.
"We have taken actions in North America to reduce our operating costs through workforce reductions, facility consolidations, and other cost control measures. Our financial strength allows us to continue our program of expanding our international infrastructure. Baker Hughes will exit this cycle as a stronger competitor, so we are continuing our investment in infrastructure, research and development, and training."
During the first quarter 2009, debt decreased $520 million to $1.81 billion and cash and short-term investments decreased $776 million to $1.18 billion as compared to the fourth quarter 2008. In the first quarter 2009, the company repaid approximately $525 million of maturing long-term debt. The next maturities of long-term debt amounting to $500 million are due in November 2013. In March 2009 we successfully renewed a $500 million 364-day revolving credit facility. Capital expenditures were $281 million, depreciation and amortization expense was $173 million and dividend payments were $46 million in the first quarter 2009.
 
Financial Information
Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
 
Calculation of EBIT and EBITDA (non-GAAP measures)
1
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin by Segment and Region
 
 
Comparison of Revenue to Prior Periods
Operational Highlights
North America
Customer spending and drilling activity contracted in North America as customers adapted to a market characterized by lower natural gas and oil prices, scarce commercial credit, ample natural gas supplies and reduced natural gas demand. The pace of activity contraction, as measured by the rig count, has been faster than any other cyclical contraction post-1986. Completion and Production segment revenue was less affected than our Drilling and Evaluation segment revenue. Comparing Quarter 1 2009 to Quarter 1 2008, Completion and Production segment revenue increased 8% while Drilling and Evaluation product line segment revenue decreased 24%, as the North America rig count decreased 27%. Comparing Quarter 1 2009 to Quarter 4 2008, Completion and Production segment revenue decreased 15% while Drilling and Evaluation segment revenue decreased 33%, as the North America rig count decreased 28%.
The decrease in North America profit before tax operating margin was primarily due to reduced activity levels, price deterioration, severance costs recognized in Quarter 1 2009, and the weakness of the Canadian dollar.
Latin America
The year-over-year growth in Latin America revenue was led by directional drilling systems, logging-while-drilling, and drilling fluids in Brazil and completion systems in Mexico. Sequentially, revenue decreased primarily due to the expected seasonal drop in large export orders from Quarter 4 2008 to Quarter 1 2009.
Building on our successes in Brazil, Baker Hughes was awarded a four year, $170 million contract for directional drilling, logging-while-drilling, upper completions, and artificial lift systems for a major oil company operating in Brazil. In Mexico, the Alma Marine Integrated
 
Operations project for PEMEX began in Quarter 1 2009, and we are currently operating on two offshore rigs.
The decrease in the Latin America profit before tax operating margin was impacted by start up costs associated with the new contracts in Mexico and Brazil, an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts in the region, and the seasonal decline in export shipments from Quarter 4 2008 to Quarter 1 2009.
Europe Africa Russia Caspian
The year-over-year growth in Europe Africa Russia Caspian revenue was led by directional drilling and logging-while-drilling in Norway, Libya and Angola; drilling fluids in Libya; wireline systems in Angola and Libya; and completion systems in Nigeria and Libya. Sequentially, the decrease in Europe Africa Russia Caspian revenue was attributable to decreased revenue from Russia, the Caspian and the UK, as well as the negative impact of unfavorable foreign currency changes relative to the US dollar.
Baker Hughes has been awarded a significant portion of a West African deepwater project by a major international oil company which will start operations in Quarter 2 2009. Product lines awarded include directional drilling, logging-while-drilling, wireline and completions.
Middle East Asia Pacific
The increase in Middle East Asia Pacific revenue in Quarter 1 2009 compared to Quarter 1 2008 was led by directional drilling systems, logging-while-drilling, and drilling fluids and artificial lift. Sequentially, comparing Quarter 1 2009 to Quarter 4 2008 the decrease in revenue was primarily in Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Australia.
Conference Call
The company has scheduled a conference call to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The call will begin at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time, 7:30 a.m. Central time, on Wednesday, April 29, 2009. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at (800) 374-2469, or (706) 634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay will be available through Wednesday, May 13, 2009. The number for the replay is (800) 642-1687, or (706) 645-9291 for international callers, and the access code is 93158395. The call and replay will also be web cast on www.bakerhughes.com/investor.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release, including on the conference call announced herein) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "forwardlooking statement"). The words "anticipate," "believe," "ensure," "expect," "if," "intend," "estimate," "project," "forecasts," "predict," "outlook," "aim," "will," "could," "should," "would," "may," "probable," "likely," and similar expressions, and the negative thereof, are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008; and those set forth from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The documents are available through the company's website at http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.
Our expectations regarding our business outlook, including changes in revenue, pricing, expenses, capital spending, backlogs, profitability, tax rates, strategies for our operations, oil and natural gas market conditions, market share and contract terms, cost structures, costs and availability of resources, economic and regulatory conditions, the impact of the current conditions of the credit and financial markets on regional and global economic growth, legal and regulatory matters are only our forecasts regarding these matters.
These forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which are affected by many risks including the following risk factors and the timing of any of those risk factors:
Economic conditions  the impact of deteriorating worldwide economic conditions; the effect that declines in credit availability may have on worldwide economic growth and demand for hydrocarbons; the ability of our customers to finance their exploration and development plans; foreign currency exchange fluctuations and changes in the capital markets in locations where we operate; the condition of financial institutions and the debt, capital and equity markets in general, any impact on our ability to borrow to fund short-term cash requirements and retire long-term debt upon maturity as well as any impact on our customers' spending and ability to pay amounts owed to us; our ability to estimate the size of and changes in the worldwide oil and natural gas industry. Changes in the price of our stock and other factors may affect the amount and timing of any potential stock repurchases.
Oil and gas market conditions  the level of petroleum industry exploration, development and production expenditures; the price of, volatility in pricing of, and the demand for, crude oil and natural gas; drilling activity; excess productive capacity; crude and product inventories; LNG imports; seasonal and other adverse weather conditions that affect the demand for energy; severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, that affect exploration and production activities; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") policy and the adherence by OPEC nations to their OPEC production quotas.
 
Terrorism and geopolitical risks  war, military action, terrorist activities or extended period of international conflict, particularly involving any major petroleumproducing or consuming regions; labor disruptions, civil unrest or security conditions where we operate; expropriation of assets by governmental action.
Price, market share, contract terms, and customer payments  our ability to implement and affect price increases for our products and services; the effect of the level and sources of our profitability on our tax rate; the ability of our competitors to capture market share; our ability to retain or increase our market share; changes in our strategic direction; the integration of newly-acquired businesses; the effect of industry capacity relative to demand for the markets in which we participate; our ability to negotiate acceptable terms and conditions with our customers, especially national oil companies, successfully execute these contracts, and receive payment in accordance with the terms of our contracts with our customers; our ability to manage warranty claims and improve performance and quality; our ability to effectively manage our commercial agents.
Costs and availability of resources  our ability to manage the costs and availability of sufficient raw materials and components (especially steel alloys, chromium, copper, carbide, lead, nickel, titanium, beryllium, barite, synthetic and natural diamonds, chemicals, and electronic components); our ability to manage energy-related costs; our ability to manage compliance-related costs; our ability to recruit, train and retain the skilled and diverse workforce necessary to meet our business needs and manage the associated costs; manufacturing capacity and subcontracting capacity at forecasted costs to meet our revenue goals; the availability of essential electronic components used in our products; the effect of competition, particularly our ability to introduce new technology on a forecasted schedule and at forecasted costs; potential impairment of long-lived assets; the accuracy of our estimates regarding our capital spending requirements; unanticipated changes in the levels of our capital expenditures; the need to replace any unanticipated losses in capital assets; the development of technology by us or our competitors that lowers overall finding and development costs; labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations.
Litigation and changes in laws or regulatory conditions  the potential for unexpected litigation or proceedings; the legislative, regulatory and business environment in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate; costs and changes in processes and operations related to or resulting from the activities of the compliance monitor appointed to assess our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act policies and procedures in connection with previously reported settlements with the SEC and Department of Justice as well as compliance with the terms of the settlements; outcome of government and legal proceedings as well as costs arising from compliance and ongoing or additional investigations in any of the countries where the company does business; new laws, regulations and policies that could have a significant impact on the future operations and conduct of all businesses; changes in export control laws or exchange control laws; restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions; customs clearance procedures;
 
changes in laws in countries identified by management for immediate focus; changes in accounting standards; changes in tax laws or tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities; and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carry forwards and tax credits.
Environmental matters  unexpected, adverse outcomes or material increases in liability with respect to environmental remediation sites where we have been named as a potentially responsible party; the discovery of new environmental remediation sites; changes in environmental regulations; the discharge of hazardous materials or hydrocarbons into the environment.


