FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20090324151219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 23, 2009 Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") announced that effective May 4, 2009; it will organize its global operations by geography. Western Hemisphere operations will report to John A. ("Andy") O'Donnell who will be named the Company's Vice President and President Baker Hughes Western Hemisphere Operations. Eastern Hemisphere operations will report to the Company's Vice President and President Eastern Hemisphere Operations who will be named at a later date. The product line marketing and technology organizations will report to Derek Mathieson who will be named the Company's Vice President and President Products and Technology.
A copy of the news release is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibit 99.1  News Release dated March 23, 2009.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this Form 8-K) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "ForwardLooking Statement"). The word "are expected" and similar expressions, are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking-statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008; and those set forth from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The documents are available through the Company's website at http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes Announces Organizational Changes
HOUSTON, Texas  March 23, 2009. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE) announced today that it will organize its global operations by geography. Western Hemisphere operations will report to John A. (Andy) O'Donnell who will be named Baker Hughes Vice President and President Baker Hughes Western Hemisphere Operations. Eastern Hemisphere operations will report to the Baker Hughes Vice President and President Eastern Hemisphere Operations who will be named at a later date. The product line marketing and technology organizations will report to Derek Mathieson who will be named Baker Hughes Vice President and President Products and Technology. Mr. O'Donnell, Mr. Mathieson and the President Eastern Hemisphere Operations will report to Martin S. Craighead, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. All changes will be effective May 4, 2009.
Commenting on the organizational changes, Chad C. Deaton, Baker Hughes President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board said, "The organization of Baker Hughes by geography and product lines is a continuation of the changes we have made to strengthen our client-focused operations by moving executive management into the countries in which we conduct our business. Our product line organizations will continue to be responsible for product development, technology, marketing and delivery of Best-in-Class solutions for our customers to advance their reservoir performance. The new organization is expected to improve cross product line technology development, sales and integrated operations."
Biographical Information
John A. (Andy) O'Donnell (60) will become President Baker Hughes Western Hemisphere Operations on May 4, 2009 and currently serves as Baker Hughes Vice President and President of Baker Petrolite. He has held multiple leadership positions within Baker Hughes Incorporated, including President of Baker Hughes Drilling Fluids,
 
and Vice President responsible for the process segment, which was divested in early 2004. Mr. O'Donnell also managed Project Renaissance, an enterprise-wide cost savings effort, completed in 2001, and also served as Vice President Manufacturing for Baker Oil Tools. He joined Hughes Tool Company in 1975. Mr. O'Donnell served as a pilot in the U.S. Marine Corps, and holds a B.S. degree in Business Management from the University of California, and an M.B.A. degree from Pepperdine University.
Derek Mathieson (38) will become Baker Hughes Vice President and President Products and Technology on May 4, 2009 and currently serves as Vice President and Chief Technology and Marketing Officer. Prior to joining Baker Hughes in December 2008, Mr. Mathieson served as Chief Executive Officer of WellDynamics, a provider of intelligent completion technology to the upstream oil industry. Prior to this, he led the company's reliability assurance and research and development functions before being appointed Vice President of Technology, Business Development and Marketing, and in 2007, Chief Executive Officer. Previously, he was employed by Shell UK Exploration & Production in its advanced completion technology group. Earlier in his career, he also worked for Wood Group in the UK. Mr. Mathieson holds a Ph.D. in Micro Electro-Mechanical Systems from Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, Scotland.


