FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20091104060119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 4, 2009, the Company issued a news release announcing its financial results for the quarter ending September 30, 2009, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Following the issuance of the news release and the filing of this current report on Form 8-K, the Company will hold a conference call on Wednesday, November 4 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time, 7:30 a.m. central time, to discuss the earnings announcement. This scheduled conference call was previously announced on October 1, 2009. To access the call, which is open to the public, please call the conference call operator at 800-374-2469 or 706-634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay of the call and the web cast will be available through Wednesday, November 18, 2009. The number for the replay of the call is 800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 for international callers and the access code is 33298674. The call and replay will also be web cast on .
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") that were included in the news release, certain information discussed in the news release and to be discussed on the conference call could be considered non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G). Any non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, or superior to, net income (loss), income (loss) from continuing operations, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. Reconciliations of such non-GAAP information to the closest GAAP measures are included in the news release and can be found on the Company's website at in the Financial Information section under the heading "Impact of Non-Operational Items" and in the applicable earnings releases under the "Earnings Releases" heading.
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 4, 2009, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Also, see Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
Table of Contents
(Information furnished in this Item 9.01 is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01.)
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes Announces Third Quarter Results
HOUSTON, Texas  November 4, 2009. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE) today announced that net income for the third quarter 2009 was $55 million or $0.18 per diluted share compared to $429 million or $1.39 per diluted share for the third quarter 2008 and $87 million or $0.28 per diluted share for the second quarter 2009. Net income for the third quarter 2009 includes expenses of $38 million before tax ($0.08 per share) associated with reorganization, severance and acquisition costs, and an increase to our allowance for doubtful accounts.
As previously reported, net income for the second quarter 2009 included expenses of $54 million before tax ($0.13 per share) comprised of $16 million ($0.04 per share) associated with employee severance and reorganization costs and $38 million ($0.09 per share) associated with increasing our allowance for doubtful accounts.
Revenue for the third quarter 2009 was $2.23 billion, down 26% compared to $3.01 billion for the third quarter 2008 and down 4% compared to $2.34 billion for the second quarter 2009.
Chad C. Deaton, Baker Hughes chairman, president and chief executive officer, said "Third quarter North America operating margins rebounded from the low set in the second quarter of 2009. Aggressive cost cutting in the first half of 2009 enabled us to absorb additional price decreases and improve profitability on modest activity increases.
"International results were disappointing with revenue less than expected and price discounting greater than expected. Our operating profit margin was also impacted by the extra costs we are carrying to assure a smooth organizational transition we announced in May 2009. Given the progress we are making on this company transformation these additional costs should largely be behind us as we enter 2010.
"Looking forward, gas-directed drilling in North America is gradually increasing and we believe this trend will likely continue through 2010. Internationally, we believe that customer spending reached its low point this quarter and that forecasts for increasing economic growth, particularly in China, India and the Middle East, combined with modest spare production capacity are supporting higher oil prices and laying the foundation for increased spending in 2010.
"We are continuing to make good progress on the pending BJ Services transaction. Regulatory filings have been made in the US and in some international jurisdictions, and our preliminary
 
proxy statement has been filed and is being reviewed by the SEC. We have received a second request' from the Department of Justice which is limited in product and geographical scope. As a result of the second request, we now project that the transaction will close in the first quarter of 2010.
"With the pending addition of BJ Services, we expect to significantly advance our competitiveness as we improve our customer intimacy, operational effectiveness, and product portfolio."
During the third quarter 2009, debt decreased $23 million to $1.81 billion and cash and short-term investments increased $125 million to $1.49 billion as compared to the second quarter 2009. Capital expenditures were $222 million, depreciation and amortization expense was $177 million and dividend payments were $47 million in the third quarter 2009.
 
Financial Information
Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Financial Information
Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Calculation of EBIT and EBITDA (non-GAAP measures)
1
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin
1
 
 
Expenses for Reorganization, Severance and Acquisition Costs, and Increases to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Included in the Following
1
This table reconciles "Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin" (table above) with "Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin Excluding Reorganization, Severance and Acquisition Costs, and Increases to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts" (table below)
 
 
Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin
1
Excluding Reorganization, Severance and Acquisition Costs, and Increases to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
The following table contains non-GAAP measures of segment profit before tax, geographic profit before tax, corporate and other profit before tax, and operating margins excluding expenses for, reorganization, severance and acquisition costs, and increases to allowance for doubtful accounts (see table above). Management uses this measure to isolate the results of certain operations and believes that this information may be useful to investors.
 
 
Comparison of Revenue to Prior Periods
Operational Highlights
North America
Revenue in North America reflected changes in the North America rig count which was down 52% year-over-year. The sequential quarterly improvement was primarily driven by a 13% increase in the North America rig count, where a strong seasonal rebound in Canada was partially offset by a 32% decrease in offshore drilling as offshore activity slowed during the Gulf of Mexico hurricane season.
The sequential improvement in profit before tax and profit before tax margins demonstrated the advantages of our early and aggressive cost cutting in the first half of 2009 which overcame incremental price discounting in the third quarter 2009.
During the quarter, and in collaboration with a major U.S. independent operator, our US Land geomarket team successfully installed the first 24-stage FracPoint EX open hole isolation completion system in the Williston Basin.
In addition, we launched our IntelliFrac service, an integration of our advanced micro-seismic services with state-of-the-art fracturing and production enhancement services from BJ Services. This combined offering of services enables operators to monitor fracture dimensions during stimulation treatments and allows real-time control of fracture operations.
Latin America
Revenue declined year-over-year as increased revenue from the Mexico / Central America geomarket was offset by reduced revenue from the Venezuela and Argentina / Bolivia / Chile geomarkets. Revenue declined sequentially primarily due to lower activity in the Venezuela geomarket. Operating profit margin in the third quarter was adversely impacted by incremental
 
costs in the Mexico / Central America and Brazil geomarkets associated with start-up activity, and higher labor costs in the Argentina / Bolivia / Chile geomarket.
During the quarter we were awarded a contract for intelligent completions for the pre-salt Tupi field in Brazil valued in excess of $50 million.
In the Mexico/Central America geomarket, we operated on a record six rigs in the Alma marine integrated services project for PEMEX, and we completed the drilling phase of the first Alma well and started completion operations. In addition, we introduced FracPoint into the Mexico/Central America geomarket, and commenced operations on three ATG integrated contracts awarded by PEMEX to local integrated operations suppliers last quarter. Under these three contracts, Baker Hughes is providing individual product line well construction technologies and services as a subcontractor.
Also during the third quarter, our newly-deployed BEACON center for Mexico became fully operational, providing permanent real-time monitoring visibility of ongoing operations allowing Baker Hughes experts from around the world to provide support on operational and technical challenges as they arise.
Europe Africa Russia Caspian
Revenue declined year-over-year in all geomarkets with the exception of Angola, with the largest declines in the Russia, UK and Norway geomarkets. Sequentially, revenues declined as the increases in the Norway, Sub Sahara Africa, and Caspian geomarkets were more than offset by declines in the UK, Russia, Continental Europe, Angola and Libya geomarkets.
Baker Hughes drilled and completed the first well using our 9-5/8" steerable liner drilling system for a client in Norway. The system features INTEQ directional drilling systems, Hughes Christensen drill bits and Baker Oil Tools completion systems.
In Azerbaijan we were awarded a $300 million contract in the third quarter 2009 for directional drilling, formation evaluation and completion systems. Work is expected to commence in January 2010.
Middle East Asia Pacific
The year-over-year revenue decline in the region was in line with the decline in the rig count, with higher revenue from the Australasia and India/Southwest Asia geomarkets being offset by lower revenue from all other Middle East Asia Pacific geomarkets. Compared to the second quarter 2009, revenue increases in the India / Southwest Asia, Indonesia, and Australasia geomarkets were more than offset by reduced revenue in the North Asia, Egypt, Gulf and Southeast Asia geomarkets.
 
During the quarter we were awarded drilling, evaluation and completion contracts for a twelve well deepwater exploration program for a consortium of six major integrated oil companies operating in Indonesia.
In the Gulf geomarket, we achieved a new milestone in reservoir characterization, performing one of the largest ever onshore 3D Vertical Seismic Profiling jobs for a major National Oil Company.
Conference Call
The company has scheduled a conference call to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The call will begin at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time, 7:30 a.m. Central time, on Wednesday, November 4, 2009. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at (800) 374-2469, or (706) 634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay will be available through Wednesday, November 18, 2009. The number for the replay is (800) 642-1687, or (706) 645-9291 for international callers, and the access code is 33298674. The call and replay will also be web cast on www.bakerhughes.com/investor.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release, including on the conference call announced herein) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "forwardlooking statement"). The words "anticipate," "believe," "ensure," "expect," "if," "intend," "estimate," "project," "forecasts," "predict," "outlook," "aim," "will," "could," "should," "would," "may," "probable," "likely," and similar expressions, and the negative thereof, are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008; and those set forth from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The documents are available through the company's website at http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.
Our expectations regarding our business outlook and business plans; the business plans of our customers; oil and natural gas market conditions; cost and availability of resources; economic, legal and regulatory conditions and other matters are only our forecasts regarding these matters.
These forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which are affected by many risks including the following risk factors and the timing of any of those risk factors:
 
Baker Hughes  BJ Services pending merger  the ability to obtain regulatory approvals for the transaction and the approval of the merger agreement by the stockholders of both parties; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be realized or take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the ability to successfully integrate the businesses; unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities that may arise from the transaction, whether or not consummated; the inability to retain key personnel; continuation or deterioration of current market conditions; the outcome of pending litigation; future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies and the business plans of the customers of the respective parties.
Economic conditions  the impact of deteriorating worldwide economic conditions; the effect that declines in credit availability may have on worldwide economic growth and demand for hydrocarbons; the ability of our customers to finance their exploration and development plans; foreign currency exchange fluctuations and changes in the capital markets in locations where we operate; the condition of financial institutions and the debt, capital and equity markets in general, any impact on our ability to borrow to fund short-term cash requirements and retire long-term debt upon maturity as well as any impact on our customers' spending and ability to pay amounts owed to us; our ability to estimate the size of and changes in the worldwide oil and natural gas industry.
Oil and gas market conditions  the level of petroleum industry exploration, development and production expenditures; the price of, volatility in pricing of, and the demand for, crude oil and natural gas; drilling activity; excess productive capacity; crude and product inventories; LNG imports; seasonal and other adverse weather conditions that affect the demand for energy; severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, that affect exploration and production activities; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") policy and the adherence by OPEC nations to their OPEC production quotas.
Terrorism and geopolitical risks  war, military action, terrorist activities or extended period of international conflict, particularly involving any major petroleumproducing or consuming regions; labor disruptions, civil unrest or security conditions where we operate; expropriation of assets by governmental action.
Price, market share, contract terms, and customer payments  our ability to obtain market prices for our products and services; the effect of the level and sources of our profitability on our tax rate; the ability of our competitors to capture market share; our ability to retain or increase our market share; changes in our strategic direction; the integration of newly-acquired businesses; the effect of industry capacity relative to demand for the markets in which we participate; our ability to negotiate acceptable terms and conditions with our customers, especially national oil companies, successfully execute these contracts, and receive payment in accordance with the terms of our contracts with our customers; our ability to manage warranty claims and improve performance and quality; our ability to effectively manage our commercial agents.
 
Costs and availability of resources  our ability to manage the costs and availability of sufficient raw materials and components (especially steel alloys, chromium, copper, carbide, lead, nickel, titanium, beryllium, barite, synthetic and natural diamonds, chemicals, and electronic components); our ability to manage energy-related costs; our ability to manage compliance-related costs; our ability to recruit, train and retain the skilled and diverse workforce necessary to meet our business needs and manage the associated costs; manufacturing capacity and subcontracting capacity at forecasted costs to meet our revenue goals; the availability of essential electronic components used in our products; the effect of competition, particularly our ability to introduce new technology on a forecasted schedule and at forecasted costs; potential impairment of long-lived assets; the accuracy of our estimates regarding our capital spending requirements; unanticipated changes in the levels of our capital expenditures; the need to replace any unanticipated losses in capital assets; the development of technology by us or our competitors that lowers overall finding and development costs; labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations.
Litigation and changes in laws or regulatory conditions  the potential for unexpected litigation or proceedings; the legislative, regulatory and business environment in the US and other countries in which we operate; costs and changes in processes and operations related to or resulting from the activities of the compliance monitor appointed to assess our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act policies and procedures in connection with previously reported settlements with the SEC and Department of Justice ("DOJ") as well as compliance with the terms of the settlements as well as any future agreements with the SEC, DOJ or other authority; outcome of government and legal proceedings as well as costs arising from compliance and ongoing or additional investigations in any of the countries where the company does business; new laws, regulations and policies that could have a significant impact on the future operations and conduct of all businesses; changes in export control laws or exchange control laws; restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions; customs clearance procedures; changes in laws in countries identified by management for immediate focus; changes in accounting standards; changes in tax laws or tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities; and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carry forwards and tax credits.
Environmental matters  unexpected, adverse outcomes or material increases in liability with respect to environmental remediation sites where we have been named as a potentially responsible party; the discovery of new environmental remediation sites; changes in environmental regulations; the discharge of hazardous materials or hydrocarbons into the environment.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
On October 14, 2009, Baker Hughes filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4, which includes a joint proxy statement of Baker Hughes and BJ Services that also constitutes a prospectus of Baker Hughes regarding the proposed transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF BAKER HUGHES AND BJ SERVICES ARE URGED TO CAREFULLY READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT FILED WITH THE SEC AND THE DEFINITIVE JOINT
 
PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER MATERIALS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN, OR WILL CONTAIN, IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING BAKER HUGHES, BJ SERVICES AND THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. A definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus will be sent to security holders of Baker Hughes and BJ Services seeking their approval of the proposed transaction. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed by Baker Hughes and BJ Services with the SEC at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov.
The joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to Baker Hughes) may also be obtained from Baker Hughes for free from Baker Hughes' web site at www.bakerhughes.com/investor or by directing a request to: Baker Hughes Incorporated, 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100, Houston, TX 77019, Attention: Corporate Secretary, or by phone at (713) 439-8600.
The joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to BJ Services) may also be obtained from BJ Services for free from BJ Services' web site at www.bjservices.com or by directing a request to: BJ Services Company, P.O. Box 4442, Houston, Texas 77210-4442, Attention: Investor Relations, or by phone at (713) 462-4239.
Participants in the Solicitation
Baker Hughes, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from Baker Hughes' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus filed.
BJ Services, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from BJ Services' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus filed.


