FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20100315174711.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On March 15, 2010, Baker Hughes Incorporated ("") and BJ Services Company ("") jointly issued a news release regarding the status of the pending merger and the significant likelihood that the stockholder meetings to approve the merger scheduled for March 19, 2010 may be adjourned to a later date in March. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Baker Hughes
BJ Services
(Information furnished in this Item 9.01 is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01.)
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          (c) Exhibits.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical information set forth in this document, the matters discussed in this document are forward-looking statements that involve certain assumptions and known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, whether the antitrust authorities will give regulatory clearance to complete the merger at all or without restrictions or conditions that would be detrimental or have a materially adverse effect on the combined company after the merger is completed, whether stockholder approval will be obtained and the merger consummated, and other statements that are not historical facts. In addition, in some jurisdictions, a competitor, customer or other third party could initiate a private action under the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. Baker Hughes or BJ Services may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws. There can be no assurance that all of the conditions to complete the merger will be satisfied. The following additional factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the approval of the merger agreement by the stockholders of both parties; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be realized or take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the ability to successfully integrate the businesses; unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities that may arise from the transaction, whether or not consummated; the inability to retain key personnel; continuation or deterioration of current market conditions; the outcome of pending litigation; future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and the business plans of the customers of the respective parties. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Baker Hughes' and BJ Services' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ""), which are available at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Except as required by law, neither Baker Hughes nor BJ Services intends to update or revise statements contained in these materials based on new information, future events or otherwise.
SEC
 
Additional Information and Where to Find It
These materials are not a substitute for the Registration Statement that Baker Hughes filed with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction with BJ Services, or the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus sent to security holders of Baker Hughes and BJ Services on or about February 16, 2010 seeking their approval of the proposed transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF BAKER HUGHES AND BJ SERVICES ARE URGED TO CAREFULLY READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS DATED FEBRUARY 12, 2010, WHICH WAS SENT TO SECURITY HOLDERS OF BAKER HUGHES AND BJ SERVICES ON OR ABOUT FEBRUARY 16, 2010, AS IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION, INCLUDING DETAILED RISK FACTORS. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed by Baker Hughes and BJ Services with the SEC at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. This document does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any shares of Baker Hughes or BJ Services common stock.
The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to Baker Hughes) may also be obtained from Baker Hughes for free from Baker Hughes' web site at www.bakerhughes.com/investor or by directing a request to: Baker Hughes Incorporated, 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100, Houston, TX 77019, Attention: Corporate Secretary, or by phone at (713) 439-8600. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to BJ Services) may also be obtained from BJ Services for free from BJ Services' web site at www.bjservices.com or by directing a request to: BJ Services Company, P.O. Box 4442, Houston, Texas 77210-4442, Attention: Investor Relations, or by phone at (713) 462-4239.
Participants in the Solicitation
Baker Hughes, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from Baker Hughes' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained or incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.
BJ Services, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from BJ Services' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained or incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.
 
SIGNATURE
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes and BJ Services Comment on the Status of the Pending BJ Services Merger
HOUSTON, Texas  March 15, 2010. Baker Hughes and BJ Services announced today that while they have received all the necessary approvals from foreign jurisdictions required to close the BJ Services merger, they have not to date received the required approval from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"). The DOJ has raised issues with regard to the overlap between the stimulation /sand control businesses of Baker Hughes and BJ Services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Both companies have mailed a joint proxy statement/prospectus to their stockholders for meetings to be held on March 19, 2010 for purposes of approving the merger. However, while the parties are working in good faith on a resolution of these issues so that the merger can close, there is a significant likelihood that all matters will not be finalized prior to the March 19th meetings of stockholders. If the issues are not resolved by March 19th, Baker Hughes and BJ Services expect to convene and then immediately adjourn the stockholder meetings to a later date. We will disclose the final resolution with the DOJ prior to the meeting date. The companies do not expect any resolution to be material to the business or financial performance of the combined company following the merger and expect that the closing will occur shortly after the stockholder meetings and before the end of March, subject to the satisfaction of other closing conditions.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical information set forth in this document, the matters discussed in this document are forward-looking statements that involve certain assumptions and known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, whether the antitrust authorities will give regulatory clearance to complete the merger at all or without restrictions or conditions that would be detrimental or have a
 
materially adverse effect on the combined company after the merger is completed, whether stockholder approval will be obtained and the merger consummated, and other statements that are not historical facts. In addition, in some jurisdictions, a competitor, customer or other third party could initiate a private action under the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. Baker Hughes or BJ Services may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws. There can be no assurance that all of the conditions to complete the merger will be satisfied. The following additional factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the approval of the merger agreement by the stockholders of both parties; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be realized or take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the ability to successfully integrate the businesses; unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities that may arise from the transaction, whether or not consummated; the inability to retain key personnel; continuation or deterioration of current market conditions; the outcome of pending litigation; future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and the business plans of the customers of the respective parties. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Baker Hughes' and BJ Services' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), which are available at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Except as required by law, neither Baker Hughes nor BJ Services intends to update or revise statements contained in these materials based on new information, future events or otherwise.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
These materials are not a substitute for the Registration Statement that Baker Hughes filed with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction with BJ Services, or the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus sent to security holders of Baker Hughes and BJ Services on or about February 16, 2010 seeking their approval of the proposed transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF BAKER HUGHES AND BJ SERVICES ARE URGED TO CAREFULLY READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS DATED FEBRUARY 12, 2010, WHICH WAS SENT TO SECURITY HOLDERS OF BAKER HUGHES AND BJ SERVICES ON OR ABOUT FEBRUARY 16, 2010, AS IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION, INCLUDING DETAILED RISK FACTORS. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed by Baker Hughes and BJ Services with the SEC at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. This document does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any shares of Baker Hughes or BJ Services common stock.
The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to Baker Hughes) may also be obtained from Baker Hughes for free from Baker Hughes' web site at www.bakerhughes.com/investor or by directing a request to: Baker Hughes Incorporated, 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100, Houston, TX 77019, Attention: Corporate Secretary, or by phone at (713) 439-8600. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to BJ Services) may also be obtained from BJ Services for free from BJ Services' web site at www.bjservices.com or
 
by directing a request to: BJ Services Company, P.O. Box 4442, Houston, Texas 77210-4442, Attention: Investor Relations, or by phone at (713) 462-4239.
Participants in the Solicitation
Baker Hughes, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from Baker Hughes' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained or incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.
BJ Services, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from BJ Services' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained or incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.


