FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20100604172415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On June 1, 2010, Baker Hughes Incorporated announced that it had acquired Siberia-based Oilpump Services, the second largest electrical submersible pumping system service company in Western Siberia. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(Information furnished in this Item 9.01 is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01.)
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Forward-Looking Statements
     Except for the historical information set forth in this document, the matters discussed in this document are forward-looking statements that involve certain assumptions and known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the acquisition may not be realized or take longer to realize than expected; the ability to successfully integrate the businesses; unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities that may arise from the acquisition; and the business plans of the customers. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Baker Hughes' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ""), which are available at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Except as required by law, Baker Hughes does not intend to update or revise statements contained in these materials based on new information, future events or otherwise.
SEC
 
SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACTS:
Baker Hughes Acquires Russian ESP Service Provider
The acquisition of Oilpump Services doubles Baker Hughes' ESP market share in Russia
HOUSTON, TX  June 1, 2010  Baker Hughes (NYSE: BHI) has acquired Siberia-based Oilpump Services (OPS), the second largest electrical submersible pumping (ESP) system service company in Western Siberia. With the addition of OPS' service bases, Baker Hughes now has complete geographic service coverage in the heart of the largest ESP population in the world. The acquisition doubles Baker Hughes' share of the Russian ESP market.
"The synergies of Baker Hughes' world-class ESP technology and manufacturing, combined with the OPS service infrastructure is expected to be a winning combination in the rapidly expanding ESP leasing market in Western Siberia," said Dmitry Kuzovenkov, president of operations for Baker Hughes in Russia and the Caspian area. Prior to the acquisition, Baker Hughes operated its ESP service business from a single base in Noyabrsk. The acquisition adds three full-cycle bases in Nyagen, NIzhnevartovsk and Megion and four remote field service bases, with the capacity to service more than 10,000 ESP systems.
"The two companies are extremely complementary in portfolio, geography and client base, with very little overlap. OPS logistics and transportation capabilities will further benefit Baker Hughes' Russia operations. Other significant cost savings are anticipated from the local supply chain and service infrastructure," notes Kuzovenkov.
Russia has the largest concentration of ESP systems globally with over 70,000 installations, representing 60 percent of the world's ESP installations. Baker Hughes is a leading equipment provider in the Russia ESP market for high volume and technically challenging artificial lift
 
applications. The OPS service infrastructure will allow Baker Hughes to expand its operations to cover the full spectrum of the Russia ESP market from low-volume, benign applications to high-volume, technically challenging applications.
About Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes provides reservoir consulting, drilling, pressure pumping, formation evaluation, completion and production products and services to the worldwide oil and gas industry.


