FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20100701123658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     In connection with the previously announced Settlement Agreements between Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") and the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company was required to retain an independent monitor for a term of three years. The monitor's term ended on July 1, 2010. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Forward-Looking Statements
     Except for the historical information set forth in this document, the matters discussed in this document are forward-looking statements that involve certain assumptions and known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the acquisition may not be realized or take longer to realize than expected; the ability to successfully integrate the businesses; unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities that may arise from the acquisition; and the business plans of the customers. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Baker Hughes' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ""), which are available at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Except as required by law, Baker Hughes does not intend to update or revise statements contained in these materials based on new information, future events or otherwise.
SEC
 
SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


