FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20100126060058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2010, the Company issued a news release announcing its financial results for the year ending December 31, 2009, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Following the issuance of the news release and the filing of this current report on Form 8-K, the Company will hold a conference call on Tuesday, January 26 at 10:00 a.m. eastern time, 9:00 a.m. central time, to discuss the earnings announcement. This scheduled conference call was previously announced on December 22, 2009. To access the call, which is open to the public, please call the conference call operator at 800-374-2469, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay of the call and the web cast will be available through Tuesday, February 9, 2010. The number for the replay of the call is 800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 for international callers and the access code is 48158116. The call and replay will also be web cast on .
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") that were included in the news release, certain information discussed in the news release and to be discussed on the conference call could be considered non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G). Any non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, or superior to, net income (loss), income (loss) from continuing operations, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. Reconciliations of such non-GAAP information to the closest GAAP measures are included in the news release and can be found on the Company's website at in the Financial Information section under the heading "Impact of Non-Operational Items" and in the applicable earnings releases under the "Earnings Releases" heading.
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 26, 2010, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Also, see Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
(Information furnished in this Item 9.01 is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01.)
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes Announces Fourth Quarter and Annual Results
HOUSTON, Texas  January 26, 2010. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE) today announced that net income for the fourth quarter 2009 was $84 million or $0.27 per diluted share compared to $432 million or $1.41 per diluted share for the fourth quarter 2008 and $55 million or $0.18 per diluted share for the third quarter 2009. Net income for the fourth quarter 2009 includes expenses of $74 million before tax ($0.16 per diluted share) associated with reorganization, severance and acquisition-related costs, and an increase to our allowance for doubtful accounts. Net income for the year 2009 was $421 million or $1.36 per diluted share, compared to $1.64 billion or $5.30 per diluted share for the year 2008. Net income for the year 2009 includes expenses of $250 million before tax ($0.55 per diluted share) associated with reorganization, severance and acquisition-related costs, and an increase to our allowance for doubtful accounts.
As previously reported, net income for the third quarter 2009 included expenses of $38 million before tax ($0.08 per diluted share) associated with reorganization, severance and acquisition costs, and an increase to our allowance for doubtful accounts.
Revenue for the fourth quarter 2009 was $2.43 billion, down 24% compared to $3.19 billion for the fourth quarter 2008 and up 9% compared to $2.23 billion for the third quarter 2009. Revenue for the year 2009 was $9.66 billion, down 19% compared to $11.86 billion for the year 2008.
Chad C. Deaton, Baker Hughes chairman, president and chief executive officer, said "The sequential improvement in our fourth quarter earnings was the result of increased revenue in every region, as well as the aggressive cost cutting measures we took throughout the year. Incremental margins were particularly strong in North America driven by increased horizontal drilling in the US Land geomarket and improved rig mix in the Gulf of Mexico geomarket. In the fourth quarter, international revenue benefitted from customer requests to accelerate delivery of some large product orders and improved geographic and customer mix.
"We expect international activity to improve in 2010 driven by the global economy's increasing demand for oil and natural gas. However, margins will remain under pressure as the impact of price discounts negotiated in 2009 are reflected in 2010 results.. In North America the oil- directed rig count has improved substantially and the gas-directed rig count has begun a steady increase. We expect both trends to continue.
 
"The implementation of our geographic-centered organization structure announced last May continues to progress and we anticipate further improvements in our competitive position during 2010. Our plans for integrating BJ Services into Baker Hughes are on schedule and we expect to close the transaction by the end of the first quarter. We look forward to welcoming the BJ Services employees to Baker Hughes, and we remain excited about the growth potential of the combined companies."
During the fourth quarter 2009, debt decreased $6 million to $1.80 billion and cash and cash equivalents increased $108 million to $1.59 billion as compared to the third quarter 2009. Capital expenditures were $292 million, depreciation and amortization expense was $179 million and dividend payments were $46 million in the fourth quarter 2009. For the year 2009, capital expenditures were $1.09 billion and depreciation and amortization expense was $711 million compared to $1.30 billion and $637 million in 2008, respectively.
 
Financial Information Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Financial Information Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Table 1: Calculation of EBIT and EBITDA (non-GAAP measures)
1
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
Table 2: Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin
1
 
Table 3: Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin
1
 
Table 4: Expenses for Reorganization, Severance and Acquisition Costs, and Increases to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Included in the Following
1
This table reconciles "Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin" (tables 2 and 3) with "Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin Excluding Reorganization, Severance and Acquisition Costs, and Increases to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts" (Tables 5 and 6).
 
 
Table 5: Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin Excluding Reorganization, Severance and Acquisition Costs, and Increases to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
1
The following table contains non-GAAP measures of segment profit before tax, geographic profit before tax, corporate and other profit before tax, and operating margins excluding expenses for, reorganization, severance and acquisition costs, and increases to allowance for doubtful accounts (see Table 4). Management uses this measure to isolate the results of certain operations and believes that this information may be useful to investors.
 
Table 6: Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin Excluding Reorganization, Severance and Acquisition Costs, and Increases to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
1
The following table contains non-GAAP measures of segment profit before tax, geographic profit before tax, corporate and other profit before tax, and operating margins excluding expenses for, reorganization, severance and acquisition costs, and increases to allowance for doubtful accounts (see Table 4). Management uses this measure to isolate the results of certain operations and believes that this information may be useful to investors.
 
Table 7: Comparison of Revenue to Prior Periods
Operational Highlights
All comments in this section refer to information in tables 5 and 6 (Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Operating Margin Excluding Reorganization, Severance and Acquisition Costs, and Increases to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts), and table 7 (Comparison of Revenue to Prior Periods).
North America
The decline in revenue and profit compared to the fourth quarter 2008 reflects the significant decrease in drilling in all North America geomarkets in 2009.
The 9% sequential increase in North America revenue was driven by an increase in oil-directed drilling in the Permian and Williston basins, an increase in horizontal gas directed drilling in US Land and Canada unconventional shale plays, and an increase in offshore drilling in the Gulf of Mexico geomarket.
Sequential incremental margins in excess of 45% in the North America region reflect the impact of increased activity and aggressive cost cutting earlier in 2009.
For the year 2009 compared to the year 2008, revenue decreased 31% and operating profit before tax decreased 75%. The pre-tax operating margin for 2009 was 9% compared to 25% in 2008.
Latin America
The decline in Latin America revenue compared to the fourth quarter 2008 was driven by significant decreases in activity in the Venezuela and Southern Cone (Argentina, Bolivia, Chile) geomarkets offset partially by modest increases in revenue in the Brazil and Mexico/Central America geomarkets. The decline in profit compared to fourth quarter 2008 reflected lower pricing in all geomarkets. Profit increased in the Brazil geomarket compared to the fourth
 
quarter 2008 as incremental activity and equipment utilization offset lower pricing and start-up costs on new contracts.
Sequential improvement in the Latin America revenue was driven primarily by the seasonal increase in artificial lift sales in the Andean (Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia), Venezuela and Brazil geomarkets, offset partially by reduced activity in Mexico.
Sequential increases in operating profit were driven by the Andean, Brazil and Southern Cone geomarkets offset by declines in operating profit in the Mexico/Central America and Venezuela geomarkets. Profits were negatively impacted by reduced spending in Mexico on the Alma Marine integrated operations project and reduced demand from the ATG drilling programs.
For the year 2009 compared to the year 2008, revenue increased 1% and operating profit before tax decreased 34%. The pre-tax operating margin for 2009 was 12% compared to 19% in 2008.
Europe Africa Russia Caspian
The revenue decline in fourth quarter 2009 compared to fourth quarter 2008 was driven primarily by declines in revenue from the Russia, UK and Angola geomarkets offset partially by higher revenue in the Norway, Nigeria and Sub-Sahara geomarkets.
The 11% sequential increase in revenue was led by the Norway, Nigeria, Sub-Sahara and Libya geomarkets.
Profit margin increased compared to the third quarter 2009 and was supported by higher activity and cost management offset by incremental price erosion.
For the year 2009 compared to the year 2008, revenue decreased 14% and operating profit before tax decreased 31%. The pre-tax operating margin for 2009 was 18% compared to 22% in 2008.
Middle East Asia Pacific
Revenue increases in the Southeast Asia and North Asia geomarkets compared to the fourth quarter 2008 were more than offset by lower revenue driven by decreased activity and price deterioration throughout the region. The decline in profit compared to the fourth quarter 2008 was driven by lower utilization levels and price erosion offset partially by cost management programs.
The sequential revenue increase was driven by the North Asia, Southeast Asia, Egypt and Indonesia geomarkets offsetting lower revenues from the Saudi Arabia/Bahrain and India/Southwest Asia geomarkets.
For the year 2009 compared to the year 2008, revenue decreased 7% and operating profit before tax decreased 39%. The pre-tax operating margin for 2009 was 14% compared to 20% for 2008.
 
Conference Call
The company has scheduled a conference call to discuss the results of today's earnings announcement. The call will begin at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, 9:00 a.m. Central time, on Tuesday, January 26, 2010. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at (800) 374-2469, or (706) 634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay will be available through Tuesday, February 9, 2010. The number for the replay is (800) 642-1687, or (706) 645-9291 for international callers, and the access code is 48158116. The call and replay will also be web cast on www.bakerhughes.com/investor.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release, including on the conference call announced herein) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "forwardlooking statement"). The words "anticipate," "believe," "ensure," "expect," "if," "intend," "estimate," "project," "forecasts," "predict," "outlook," "aim," "will," "could," "should," "would," "may," "probable," "likely," and similar expressions, and the negative thereof, are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008; and those set forth from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The documents are available through the company's website at http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.
Our expectations regarding our business outlook and business plans; the business plans of our customers; oil and natural gas market conditions; cost and availability of resources; economic, legal and regulatory conditions and other matters are only our forecasts regarding these matters.
These forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which are affected by many risks including the following risk factors and the timing of any of those risk factors:
Baker Hughes  BJ Services pending merger  the ability to obtain regulatory approvals for the transaction and the approval of the merger agreement by the stockholders of both parties; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be realized or take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the ability to successfully integrate the businesses; unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities that may arise from the transaction, whether or not consummated; the inability to retain key personnel; deterioration of market conditions; the outcome of pending litigation; future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies and the business plans of the customers of the respective parties.
 
Economic conditions  the impact of worldwide economic conditions; the effect that declines in credit availability may have on worldwide economic growth and demand for hydrocarbons; the ability of our customers to finance their exploration and development plans; foreign currency exchange fluctuations and changes in the capital markets in locations where we operate; the condition of financial institutions and the debt, capital and equity markets in general, any impact on our ability to borrow to fund short-term cash requirements and retire long-term debt upon maturity as well as any impact on our customers' spending and ability to pay amounts owed to us; our ability to estimate the size of and changes in the worldwide oil and natural gas industry.
Oil and gas market conditions  the level of petroleum industry exploration, development and production expenditures; the price of, volatility in pricing of, and the demand for, crude oil and natural gas; drilling activity; excess productive capacity; crude and product inventories; LNG imports; seasonal and other adverse weather conditions that affect the demand for energy; severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, that affect exploration and production activities; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") policy and the adherence by OPEC nations to their OPEC production quotas.
Terrorism and geopolitical risks  war, military action, terrorist activities or extended period of international conflict, particularly involving any major petroleumproducing or consuming regions; labor disruptions, civil unrest or security conditions where we operate; expropriation of assets by governmental action.
Price, market share, contract terms, and customer payments  our ability to obtain market prices for our products and services; the effect of the level and sources of our profitability on our tax rate; the ability of our competitors to capture market share; our ability to retain or increase our market share; changes in our strategic direction; the integration of newly-acquired businesses; the effect of industry capacity relative to demand for the markets in which we participate; our ability to negotiate acceptable terms and conditions with our customers, especially national oil companies, successfully execute these contracts, and receive payment in accordance with the terms of our contracts with our customers; our ability to manage warranty claims and improve performance and quality; our ability to effectively manage our commercial agents.
Costs and availability of resources  our ability to manage the costs and availability of sufficient raw materials and components (especially steel alloys, chromium, copper, carbide, lead, nickel, titanium, beryllium, barite, synthetic and natural diamonds, chemicals, and electronic components); our ability to manage energy-related costs; our ability to manage compliance-related costs; our ability to recruit, train and retain the skilled and diverse workforce necessary to meet our business needs and manage the associated costs; manufacturing capacity and subcontracting capacity at forecasted costs to meet our revenue goals; the availability of essential electronic components used in our products; the effect of competition, particularly our ability to introduce new technology on a forecasted schedule and at forecasted costs; potential impairment of long-lived assets; the accuracy of our estimates regarding our capital spending requirements; unanticipated changes in the levels of our capital expenditures; the need to replace any unanticipated losses in capital assets; the development of technology by us or our competitors that lowers overall finding and development costs; labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations.
 
Litigation and changes in laws or regulatory conditions  the potential for unexpected litigation or proceedings; the legislative, regulatory and business environment in the US and other countries in which we operate; costs and changes in processes and operations related to or resulting from the activities of the compliance monitor appointed to assess our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act policies and procedures in connection with previously reported settlements with the SEC and Department of Justice ("DOJ") as well as compliance with the terms of the settlements as well as any future agreements with the SEC, DOJ or other authority; outcome of government and legal proceedings as well as costs arising from compliance and ongoing or additional investigations in any of the countries where the company does business; new laws, regulations and policies that could have a significant impact on the future operations and conduct of all businesses; changes in export control laws or exchange control laws; restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions; customs clearance procedures; changes in laws in countries identified by management for immediate focus; changes in accounting standards; changes in tax laws or tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities; and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carry forwards and tax credits.
Environmental matters  unexpected, adverse outcomes or material increases in liability with respect to environmental remediation sites where we have been named as a potentially responsible party; the discovery of new environmental remediation sites; changes in environmental regulations; the discharge of hazardous materials or hydrocarbons into the environment.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
Baker Hughes has filed with the SEC an amended Registration Statement on Form S-4, which includes a preliminary joint proxy statement of Baker Hughes and BJ Services that also constitutes a preliminary prospectus of Baker Hughes regarding the proposed transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF BAKER HUGHES AND BJ SERVICES ARE URGED TO CAREFULLY READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT FILED WITH THE SEC AND THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER MATERIALS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN, OR WILL CONTAIN, IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING BAKER HUGHES, BJ SERVICES AND THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. A definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus will be sent to security holders of Baker Hughes and BJ Services seeking their approval of the proposed transaction. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed by Baker Hughes and BJ Services with the SEC at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov.
The joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to Baker Hughes) may also be obtained from Baker Hughes for free from Baker Hughes' web site at www.bakerhughes.com/investor or by directing a request to: Baker Hughes Incorporated, 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100, Houston, TX 77019, Attention: Corporate Secretary, or by phone at (713) 439-8600.
The joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to BJ Services) may also be obtained from BJ Services for free from BJ Services' web site at www.bjservices.com or by directing a
 
request to: BJ Services Company, P.O. Box 4442, Houston, Texas 77210-4442, Attention: Investor Relations, or by phone at (713) 462-4239.
Participants in the Solicitation
Baker Hughes, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from Baker Hughes' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus filed.
BJ Services, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from BJ Services' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus filed.


