FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20100826113145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On August 25, 2010, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company" or "Baker Hughes") announced that it had received notice that the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice had approved Superior Energy Services, Inc. as the purchaser of the two stimulation vessels (the and ) and certain other assets used to perform sand control and stimulation services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. These assets are being divested in connection with the Company's acquisition of BJ Services Company ("BJ Services"). The parties expect to close the sale early next week. Upon closing, the Hold Separate Stipulation and Order requiring the BJ Services and Baker Hughes business in the United States to be operated separately will terminate and the Company will be free to fully integrate BJ Services into Baker Hughes globally. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
HR Hughes
Blue Ray
     The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward-Looking Statements
     Except for the historical information set forth in this document, the matters discussed in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve certain assumptions and known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially. Such forward-looking statements and factors include, but are not limited to the ability to integrate the businesses of BJ Services and other statements that are not historical facts. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Baker Hughes' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), which are available at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Except as required by law, Baker Hughes undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes Receives DOJ Approval of Gulf of Mexico Asset Sale
HOUSTON, Texas  August 25, 2010. Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI  NYSE) announced that it has received notice today that the Antitrust Division of the US Department of Justice (DOJ) has approved Superior Energy Services as the purchaser of the two stimulation vessels (the and the ) and certain other assets used to perform sand control services in the US Gulf of Mexico. These assets are being divested in connection with the acquisition of BJ Services Company. The parties expect to close the sale early next week. Upon closing, the Hold Separate Stipulation and Order requiring the BJ Services and Baker Hughes business in the United States to be operated separately will terminate and the company will be free to fully integrate BJ Services into Baker Hughes globally.
HR Hughes
Blue Ray
Forward Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "Forward-Looking Statement"). The word "will," "expect," and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, whether the sale of the assets will be consummated, the ability to integrate the businesses of BJ Services and other statements that are not historical facts. There can be no assurance that all of the conditions to complete the sale of the assets will be satisfied. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements including the successful closing. These forward-looking-statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009; the company's subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010; and those set forth from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.


