FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20100204080225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
On February 3, 2010, Baker Hughes Incorporated ("") and BJ Services Company ("") notified the NYSE that they had scheduled special meetings of stockholders on March 19, 2010, at 9:00 a.m. Central Time in connection with the proposed merger of BJ Services with and into a subsidiary of Baker Hughes. The record date for the special meetings is February 11, 2010. Information about the matters to be presented to the stockholders for vote at the special meetings is contained in Baker Hughes' Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-162463).
Baker Hughes
BJ Services
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed merger, on October 14, 2009, Baker Hughes filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a Registration Statement on Form S-4, which includes a joint proxy statement of Baker Hughes and BJ Services that also constitutes a prospectus of Baker Hughes regarding the proposed transaction. On December 21, 2009, Baker Hughes filed with the SEC Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 for the sole purpose of filing exhibits not previously filed with no change to the joint proxy statement/prospectus constituting Part I of the Registration Statement at that time, while on January 26, 2010, Baker Hughes filed with the SEC Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF BAKER HUGHES AND BJ SERVICES ARE URGED TO CAREFULLY READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT FILED WITH THE SEC AND THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS, AND ANY AMENDMENTS THERETO, AND ANY OTHER MATERIALS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN, OR WILL CONTAIN, IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING BAKER HUGHES, BJ SERVICES AND THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. A definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus will be sent to security holders of Baker Hughes and BJ Services seeking their approval of the proposed transaction. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed by Baker Hughes and BJ Services with the SEC at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov.
SEC
The joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to Baker Hughes) may also be obtained from Baker Hughes for free from Baker Hughes' web site at www.bakerhughes.com/investor or by directing a request to: Baker Hughes Incorporated, 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100, Houston, TX 77019, Attention: Corporate Secretary, or by phone at (713) 439-8600. The joint proxy statement/prospectus and such other documents (relating to BJ Services) may also be obtained from BJ Services for free from BJ Services' web site at www.bjservices.com or by directing a request to: BJ Services Company, P.O. Box 4442, Houston, Texas 77210-4442, Attention: Investor Relations, or by phone at (713) 462-4239.
Participants in the Solicitation
Baker Hughes, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from Baker Hughes' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained or incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.
BJ Services, its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and employees may be considered "participants in the solicitation" of proxies from BJ Services' stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding such persons and a description of their interests in the proposed transaction are contained or incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical information set forth in this document, the matters discussed in this document are forward-looking statements that involve certain assumptions and known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Baker Hughes and BJ Services, including expected future financial and operating results, anticipated accretion to Baker Hughes' earnings per share arising from the transaction, the expected amount and timing of cost savings and operating synergies, whether and
 
when the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement will be consummated, the new combined company's plans and other expectations, objectives, intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
The following additional factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain regulatory approvals for the transaction and the approval of the merger agreement by the stockholders of both parties; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be realized or take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the ability to successfully integrate the businesses; unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities that may arise from the transaction, whether or not consummated; the inability to retain key personnel; continuation or deterioration of current market conditions; the outcome of pending litigation; future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and the business plans of the customers of the respective parties. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Baker Hughes' and BJ Services' filings with the SEC, which are available at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Except as required by law, neither Baker Hughes nor BJ Services intends to update or revise statements contained in these materials based on new information, future events or otherwise.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


