FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20110823132716.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On August 17, 2011, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") completed the previously announced private placement of $750 million in aggregate principal amount of its 3.20% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued in a transaction not subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and applicable state securities laws. The Notes were offered and issued only to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act and to persons outside the United States pursuant to Regulation S. The Company estimates that it will receive net proceeds of approximately $742 million from the offering, after deducting the discounts to the initial purchasers of the Notes and estimated expenses relating to the private placement. The Company expects to use a portion of the net proceeds from the private placement to redeem all of its outstanding 6.50% Senior Notes due 2013, of which an aggregate principal amount of $500 million is currently outstanding. The Company will use any remaining net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which could include funding ongoing operations, business acquisitions and repurchases of the Company's common stock. The net proceeds of the offering may be invested temporarily in short-term marketable securities pending such usages.
     The Notes will mature on August 15, 2021 with interest payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing February 15, 2012. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future senior indebtedness; senior in right of payment to any future subordinated indebtedness; and effectively junior to the Company's future secured indebtedness, if any. The notes are structurally subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and all other obligations of its subsidiaries. The Company may redeem, at its option, all or part of the Notes at any time prior to May 15, 2021 (the date three months prior to their stated maturity), at the applicable make-whole redemption prices plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. The Company may redeem, at its option, all or part of the Notes on or after May 15, 2021 at 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. The terms of the Notes are governed by an Indenture dated as of October 28, 2008 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 17, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), by and between the Company and the Trustee.
     The Indenture was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K on October 29, 2008 and is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the Supplemental Indenture, including the form of the Notes, is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference. The descriptions of the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture contained herein are qualified in their entirety by the full text of such exhibits.
     Also on August 17, 2011, the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of a group of initial purchasers, in connection with the Company's private placement of the Notes.
     Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company agreed to file a registration statement with the Commission with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for substantially identical notes (other than with respect to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate) that are registered under the Securities Act and the Company agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the exchange offer registration statement to become effective and complete the exchange offer by August 17, 2012. The Company will be obligated to pay additional interest if it fails to comply with its obligations to register the Notes within the specified time periods.
     The Registration Rights Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The description of the Registration Rights Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by the full text of such exhibit.
     Certain of the initial purchasers and their affiliates perform various financial advisory, investment banking and commercial banking services from time to time for the Company and its affiliates in the ordinary course of business. Specifically, affiliates of each of the initial purchasers serve various roles in the Company's credit facility.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 4.2
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of August 17, 2011 (this ""), to the indenture dated as of October 28, 2008 (the "") between Baker Hughes Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "").
First Supplemental Indenture
Original Indenture
Company
Trustee
          WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered the Original Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of Securities (as defined in the Original Indenture) of the Company, to be issued in one or more series;
          WHEREAS, Sections 201, 301, 901(2) and 901(7) of the Original Indenture provide that the Company and the Trustee may, without the consent of any Holders (as defined in the Original Indenture) of Securities, enter into indentures supplemental to the Original Indenture for the purpose of establishing the form and terms of Securities of any series and adding to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of such series;
          WHEREAS, the Company (i) desires the issuance of a series of Securities to be designated as hereinafter provided and (ii) has requested the Trustee to enter into this First Supplemental Indenture for the purpose of establishing the form and terms of the Securities of such series and adding to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of such series; and
          WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the creation of the Notes (as defined below) of the tenor and amount hereinafter set forth;
          NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          (a) Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Original Indenture.
          (b) The rules of interpretation set forth in Section 1.01 of the Original Indenture shall be applied hereto as if set forth in full herein.
          (c) For all purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings (such meanings shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the respective terms):
          "" means, with respect to any Notes, the additional or special interest thereon, if any, required by the Registration Rights Agreement applicable to such Notes. All references in this First Supplemental Indenture or the Notes to "interest" shall be deemed to include Additional Interest unless the context otherwise requires.
Additional Interest
 
          "" means any Notes issued from time to time after the Issue Date under the terms of this First Supplemental Indenture (other than pursuant to Sections 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 of the Original Indenture or Article IV of this First Supplemental Indenture and other than the Initial Securities or the Exchange Securities) in accordance with Section 2.08, as part of the same series as the Initial Securities and any Exchange Securities then outstanding.
Additional Securities
          "" means any Security Registrar or Paying Agent.
Agent
          "" means, with respect to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as of the time of determination, the total obligation, discounted to present value at the annual rate equal to the discount rate which would be applicable to a capital lease obligation with a similar term in accordance with GAAP, of a lessee for rental payments (other than amounts required to be paid on account of property taxes, maintenance, repairs, insurance, water rates and other items which do not constitute payments for property rights) during the remaining portion of the initial term of the lease with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction.
Attributable Debt
          "" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme or any successor securities clearing agency.
Clearstream
          "" means, with respect to the Notes, the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
          "" means with respect to any Redemption Date for any Notes (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
          "" means the total amount of assets less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items after deducting (a) all current liabilities excluding any thereof which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount thereof is being computed, and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, purchased technology, unamortized debt discount and other like intangible assets, all as determined on a consolidated basis for the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as set forth on the Company's most recent quarterly balance sheet and computed in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
          "" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Article IV, substantially in the form of hereto, except that such Note shall not bear the Global Security Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto.
Definitive Security
Exhibit A
 
          "" means Euroclear Bank N.V./S.A. or any successor securities clearance agency.
Euroclear
          "" means a registration statement of the Company relating to any offer to exchange Exchange Securities for either Initial Securities or Additional Securities pursuant to a Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
          "" means Notes issued in an exchange offer for Initial Securities or Additional Securities in accordance with a Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Securities
          "" means a broker-dealer that exchanges Notes in a Registered Exchange Offer that it has acquired for its own account as a result of market making activities or other trading activities.
Exchanging Dealer
          "" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Securities and the Unrestricted Global Securities.
Global Securities
          "" means the legend set forth in Section 4.07(c) which is required to be placed on all Global Securities issued under this First Supplemental Indenture.
Global Security Legend
          "" means the Original Indenture as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, as either may be amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof or hereof, including the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part thereof or hereof.
Indenture
          "" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
          "" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Security through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
          "" means, with respect to the Initial Securities, the initial purchasers named in the Purchase Agreement, as initial purchasers of the Initial Securities in the Offering.
Initial Purchasers
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02. The Initial Securities constitute the Notes issued on the date hereof.
Initial Securities
          "" means August 17, 2011, the first date on which the Notes are issued under this First Supplemental Indenture.
Issue Date
          "" means the letter of transmittal prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of Initial Securities or Additional Securities, as the case may be, for use by such Holders in connection with a Registered Exchange Offer.
Letter of Transmittal
          "" means a Person who is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Person
 
          " means the 3.20% Senior Notes due 2021 of the Company issued pursuant to the Indenture and shall include the Initial Securities and any Exchange Securities or Additional Securities authenticated and delivered in accordance with Section 2.02.
"Notes
          "" means the offering of the Initial Securities pursuant to the Offering Memorandum.
Offering
          "" means the final Offering Memorandum of the Company, dated August 10, 2011, relating to the Offering.
Offering Memorandum
          "" means a Global Security substantially in the form of hereto bearing the Global Security Legend and the Private Placement Legend, that has the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Security
Exhibit A
          "" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
          "" means any real property, manufacturing plant, warehouse, office building or other physical facility, or any item of marine, transportation or construction equipment or other like depreciable assets of the Company or of any Restricted Subsidiary, whether owned at or acquired after August 17, 2011, unless, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, such plant or facility or other assets is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Principal Property
          "" means the legend set forth in Section 4.07(a) which is required to be placed on all Notes issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
          "" means the Purchase Agreement, dated August 10, 2011, among the Company and the Initial Purchasers.
Purchase Agreement
          "" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
          "" means each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and four other primary U.S. Government securities dealers in the United States (each, a "") appointed by the Trustee in consultation with the Company; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
          "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day preceding that Redemption Date.
          "" means an offer to exchange Exchange Securities for either Initial Securities or Additional Securities pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement as required by a Registration Rights Agreement.
Registered Exchange Offer
          "" means, with respect to the Initial Securities, the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of the Issue Date, among the Company and the Initial Purchasers, or any similar registration rights agreement with respect to Additional Securities.
Registration Rights Agreement
          "" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act, as such may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Regulation S
          "" means a permanent Global Security substantially in the form of hereto bearing the Global Security Legend and the Private Placement Legend, that has the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Regulation S Global Security
Exhibit A
          "" means with respect to any Notes, (x) in the case of Notes offered and sold to QIBs in reliance on Rule 144A, the date which is one year (or such other date when resales of securities by non-affiliates are first permitted under Rule 144(d)) or, in the case of Notes offered and sold in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S, 40 days, in each case, after the Issue Date or the date of any subsequent reopening of the Notes and the last date on which the Company or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) were the owner of such Notes (or any predecessor thereto) or (y) in any case, such later date, if any, as may be required by applicable law.
Resale Restriction Termination Date
          "" means a Definitive Security bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Security
          "" means a Regulation S Global Security or a 144A Global Security.
Restricted Global Security
          "" means the "distribution compliance period" as defined in Regulation S in respect of the Offering of the Initial Notes.
Restricted Period
          "" means: (i) any Subsidiary of the Company the principal assets and business of which are located in the United States or Canada, except Subsidiaries the principal business of which consists of providing sales and acquisition financing of the products of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or owning, leasing, dealing in or developing real estate; (ii) any Subsidiary of the Company that owns, indirectly through ownership of another Subsidiary of the Company, a Principal Property located in the United States or Canada; or (iii) any other Subsidiary of the Company that the Company designates as a Restricted Subsidiary.
Restricted Subsidiary
 
          "" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144A) or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC providing for offers and sales of securities made in compliance therewith resulting in offers and sales by subsequent holders that are not affiliates of the issuer of such securities being free of the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act.
Rule 144
          "" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144) or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 144A
          "" means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 903
          "" means Rule 904 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 904
          "" means any arrangement with any Person under which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary leases for a term of more than three years any Principal Property that the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary has sold or transferred or will sell or transfer to that Person. This term excludes leases of any Principal Property the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary acquires or places in service within 180 days prior to the arrangement.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
          "" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
          "" means the Trustee, as custodian on behalf of the Depositary with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
Securities Custodian
          "" means a registration statement of the Company used by a Holder in connection with its offer and sale of Notes pursuant to a Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
          "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Notes, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue with respect to the Notes (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity for the Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (ii) if that release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable
Treasury Rate
 
Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
          "" means a Definitive Security that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Security
          "" means a permanent Global Security substantially in the form of attached hereto that bears the Global Security Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Securities" attached thereto and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, representing Notes that do not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Security
Exhibit A
          "" means an Unrestricted Definitive Security or Unrestricted Global Security.
Unrestricted Security
          "" means a "U.S. person" as defined in Rule 902(k) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
          Other Definitions
          SECTION 2.01. . There is hereby created pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture a series of Securities that shall have the title of "3.20% Senior Notes due 2021".
Title
          SECTION 2.02. . (a) The aggregate principal amount of Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under this First Supplemental Indenture is not limited. The aggregate principal amount of Notes initially authorized for authentication and delivery pursuant to this First Supplemental Indenture (the "") is limited to $750,000,000 except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 of the Indenture or Article IV of this First Supplemental Indenture.
Aggregate Principal Amount; Execution and Authentication
Initial Securities
 
          (b) The Company may forthwith execute, and upon a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Initial Securities for original issue in accordance with the provisions of Section 303 of the Original Indenture.
          (c) In connection with any Registered Exchange Offer, the Company may execute, and upon a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, Exchange Securities for issuance solely in exchange for Initial Securities or Additional Securities of a like aggregate principal amount.
          (d) At any time and from time to time after the Issue Date, in accordance with Section 2.08, the Company may execute, and upon a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, any Additional Securities for original issue in accordance with the provisions of Section 303 of the Original Indenture in an aggregate principal amount determined at the time of issuance and specified in such Company Order. Such Company Order shall specify the principal amount of the Additional Securities to be authenticated, the date on which the original issue of such Additional Securities is to be authenticated and the additional information set forth in Section 2.08(b).
          (e) The Initial Securities, any Exchange Securities and any Additional Securities shall be considered collectively as a single series for all purposes of the Indenture. Holders of the Initial Securities, any Exchange Securities and any Additional Securities will vote and consent together on all matters to which such Holders are entitled to vote or consent as one series, and none of the Holders of the Initial Securities or any Exchange Securities or any Additional Securities shall have the right to vote or consent as a separate series or class on any matter to which such Holders are entitled to vote or consent.
          SECTION 2.03. . (a)  The principal of the Notes shall be payable on August 15, 2021.
Maturity; Interest Rate; and Denomination of Notes
          (b) The Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 3.20% per annum from August 17, 2011 or the most recent February 15 or August 15 to which interest has been paid or duly provided for on the Notes. Each February 15 or August 15 in each year, commencing February 15, 2012, shall be an "" for the Notes. The February 1 or August 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding an Interest Payment Date shall be the "" for the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date. Interest shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months.
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
          (c) The Notes shall be issuable in minimum denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
          SECTION 2.04. . The principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Notes shall be payable (x) if the Notes are Global Securities, through the relevant Depositary or (y) if the Notes are not Global Securities, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in New York, New York, against surrender of such Note in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal thereof or any payment of interest that becomes payable on a day other than an Interest Payment Date, and in the case of clause (x) or clause (y), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at
Place and Method of Payment
 
the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that if the Notes are not Global Securities, (i) payment of interest on an Interest Payment Date will be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; and all other payments will be made by check against surrender of such Notes; (ii) all payments by check will be made in next-day funds (i.e., funds that become available on the day after the check is cashed); and (iii) notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii) above, with respect to any payment of any amount due on the Notes, if such Note is in a denomination of at least $1,000,000 and the Holder thereof at the time of surrender thereof or, in the case of any payment of interest on any Interest Payment Date, the Holder thereof on the related Regular Record Date delivers a written request to the Paying Agent to make such payment by wire transfer at least five Business Days before the date such payment becomes due, together with appropriate wire transfer instructions specifying an account at a bank in New York, New York, the Company shall make such payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account at such bank in New York City, any such wire instructions, once properly given by a Holder as to such Notes, remaining in effect as to such Holder and such Notes unless and until new instructions are given in the manner described above and , that notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, if the Notes are Global Securities, payment shall be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the relevant Depositary. In accordance with Section 1002 of the Indenture, the "" with respect to the Notes shall be New York, New York.
provided
however
provided
further
Place of Payment
          SECTION 2.05. .
Optional Redemption
          (a) The Notes shall be subject to redemption, as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the option of the Company.
          (b) If Notes are redeemed prior to May 15, 2021 (the date three months prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes), the Redemption Price will be equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the date on which the Notes are to be redeemed on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points, plus any interest accrued but not paid on the Notes to be redeemed to the date on which the Notes are to be redeemed (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
          (c) If Notes are redeemed on or after May 15, 2021, the Redemption Price for the Notes will equal 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus any interest accrued but not paid on the Notes to be redeemed to the date on which the Notes are to be redeemed (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
          (d) Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
 
          (e) If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee will select Notes for redemption on a pro rata basis. No Notes of $2,000 or less can be redeemed in part.
          (f) Notices of redemption will be delivered at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at its registered address, except that notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if the notice is issued in connection with a Covenant Defeasance or Defeasance with respect to the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture with respect to the Notes. Notice of any redemption may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to one or more conditions precedent. A notice of redemption need not set forth the exact Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.
          SECTION 2.06. . The Notes shall not have the benefit of or be subject to any sinking fund requirement and shall not be subject to redemption at the option of the Holders.
No Sinking Fund or Holder Redemption Right
          SECTION 2.07.
Forms of Notes.
          (a) . Notes issued in global form shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto (including the Global Security Legend thereon and the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security attached thereto). Notes issued in definitive form shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto (but without the Global Security Legend thereon and without the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security attached thereto).
Forms Generally
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
          (b) . The Initial Securities shall initially be issued and authenticated solely in the form of Global Securities (as more fully set forth below). The Initial Securities will be offered and sold by the Company to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. The Initial Securities will be resold by the Initial Purchasers under the Purchase Agreement only to QIBs in reliance on Rule 144A, or to, among others, QIBs and Persons other than U.S. Persons (as defined in Regulation S) in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S, subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein.
Initial Securities
          (c) . Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein, and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. In the event of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented by any Global Security, the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Article IV, shall endorse such Global Security to reflect such increase or decrease and the Security Registrar shall also reflect on the Security Register the date and amount of any such increase or decrease.
Global Securities
          (d) . Any Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of a Regulation S Global Security, which shall
Regulation S Global Securities
 
be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, and registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. Prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, any resale or transfer of beneficial interests in a Regulation S Global Security to U.S. Persons shall not be permitted unless such resale or transfer is made pursuant to Rule 144A or Regulation S.
          (e) . Any Notes offered and sold in reliance on Rule 144A shall be issued initially in the form of a 144A Global Security, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, and registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided.
144A Global Securities
          (f) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article II, any issuance of Definitive Securities shall not occur, and owners of beneficial interests in Global Securities shall not be entitled to receive Definitive Securities in exchange therefor, until a Definitive Securities Issuance Date shall occur in the specific circumstances set forth in Section 4.01.
Definitive Securities
          SECTION 2.08. .
Additional Securities
          (a) The Company shall be entitled at any time or from time to time to issue Additional Securities that have identical terms as the Initial Notes except for the issue date, issue price and the date from which interest shall accrue.
          (b) With respect to any Additional Securities, the Company Order referred to in Section 2.02(d) shall specify:
     (A) the issue price and the issue date of such Additional Securities, including the date from which interest shall accrue and the first Interest Payment Date therefor; and
     (B) whether such Additional Securities shall bear the Private Placement Legend.
          (c) Additional Securities issued before the Definitive Securities Issuance Date shall be issued solely in the form of Global Securities; and any Additional Securities issued from and after the Definitive Securities Issuance Date shall be issued solely in the form of Definitive Securities.
          SECTION 2.09. . For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of Section 1302 and Section 1303 of the Indenture with respect to Defeasance of the Securities of a series and Covenant Defeasance of the Securities of a series, respectively, shall be applicable to the Notes.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
          SECTION 2.10. . The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Securities.
Depositary
DTC
 
          SECTION 2.11. . The Notes shall have and be subject to such other terms as provided in the Original Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture. The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of hereto, which is hereby incorporated in and expressly made a part of this First Supplemental Indenture.
Other Terms and Form of the Notes
Exhibit A
          SECTION 2.12. . The provisions of this Article II shall apply only to the Notes.
Applicability
          SECTION 3.01. . At any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, so long as any Notes remain outstanding, upon the request of a holder of the Notes, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished the information specified under Rule 144A(d)(4) of the Securities Act to such holder.
Rule 144A Information
          SECTION 3.02. .
Restriction on Liens; Restriction on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions
          (a) So long as any of the Notes remain outstanding, subject to Section 3.02(c) below, the Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, assume or guarantee any debt for money borrowed ("debt") if that debt is secured by a mortgage on any Principal Property, or on any shares of stock or indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary (whether the Principal Property, shares of stock or indebtedness is owned at or acquired after August 17, 2011), without in any such case effectively providing that the Notes shall be secured equally and ratably with or prior to such debt until such time as such debt is no longer so secured by such mortgage. This restriction, however, shall not apply to: (i) mortgages on property of any corporation or other Person existing at the time such corporation or other Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary; (ii) mortgages on property of a corporation or other Person existing at the time that corporation or other Person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, transfer, conveyance or the disposition of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of that corporation or other Person to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary; (iii) mortgages on any property the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary acquires, constructs or improves that secure debt issued, assumed or guaranteed (or issued, assumed or guaranteed pursuant to a commitment entered into) prior to, at the time of or within 12 months after the acquisition or completion of construction or improvement of the property (or, in the case of property constructed or improved, if later, the commencement of commercial operation of the property) for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price of the property or the cost of the construction or improvement (together with, in the case of construction or improvement, mortgages on property previously owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to the extent constituting unimproved real property on which the property being constructed or the improvement is located); (iv) mortgages securing debt owing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary; (v) mortgages on property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in favor of the United States of
 
America or any State thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any State thereof, or in favor of any other country, or any political subdivision thereof, to secure any debt incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of construction or improvement of the property subject to such mortgages, including mortgages incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financings; (vi) mortgages existing at the Issue Date; (vii) mortgages on inventory to secure current liabilities of debt; and (viii) any extension, renewal or replacement or successive extensions, renewals or replacements, in whole or in part, of any mortgage referred to in the clauses immediately above if the amount of debt secured by the extended, renewed or replacement mortgage does not exceed the amount of the debt refinanced (plus accrued interest and premiums with respect thereto) plus transaction expenses related thereto and such mortgage is limited to the property secured by the original mortgage plus improvements thereon.
          (b) So long as any of the Notes remain outstanding, subject to Section 3.02(c) below, the Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction of any Principal Property unless (i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled to issue, assume or guarantee debt secured by a mortgage upon the Principal Property involved in amount at least equal to the Attributable Debt for that transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes, (ii) an amount in cash equal to the Attributable Debt for that transaction is applied prior to, at the time of or within 12 months after that transaction to the retirement of Notes or other debt of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, which by its terms matures at or is extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor to a date more than 12 months after its creation and which, in the case of such debt of the Company, is not subordinate in right of payment to the Notes or (iii) prior to, at the time of or within 12 months after such transaction, the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary uses an amount equal to the Attributable Debt for the purchase of any asset or any interest in an asset which would qualify, after purchase, as Principal Property. This Section 3.02(b) does not apply to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction (i) entered into in connection with an industrial revenue, pollution control or similar financing or any Sale and Leaseback Transaction or (ii) in which the only parties involved are the Company and any Subsidiary or Subsidiaries. When calculating the amount of Attributable Debt, any Attributable Debt for these Sale and Leaseback Transactions will be excluded.
          (c) In addition to the exceptions set forth under Sections 3.02(a) and 3.02(b) above, the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary may incur debt secured by mortgages and enter into additional Sale and Leaseback Transactions otherwise prohibited by (and not permitted under the exceptions to) Sections 3.02(a) or 3.02(b) as long as the total of such debt secured by mortgages plus the Attributable Debt in respect of such Sale and Leaseback Transactions does not exceed 15% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
          SECTION 3.03. . The covenants set forth in Sections 3.01 and 3.02 are applicable only to the Securities of the series of the Notes and are solely for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes.
Applicability
 
          SECTION 4.01. . (a) The provisions of clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) below shall apply only to Global Securities:
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities; Limited Rights of Beneficial Owners
          (1) Each Global Security authenticated under this First Supplemental Indenture shall be registered in the name of the Depositary designated for such Global Security or a nominee thereof and delivered to such Depositary or a nominee thereof or custodian therefor, and each such Global Security shall constitute a single Note for all purposes of the Indenture.
          (2) Notwithstanding any other provision in the Original Indenture or this First Supplemental Indenture, no Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Notes registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof unless
     (A) such Depositary has notified the Company that it (i) is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or (ii) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, or
     (B) the Company has executed and delivered to the Trustee a Company Order stating that such Global Security shall be exchanged in whole for Definitive Securities.
If the Company receives a notice of the kind specified in clause (A) above, the Company may, in its sole discretion, designate a successor Depositary for such Global Security within 90 days after receiving such notice. If the Company designates a successor Depositary as aforesaid, such Global Security shall promptly be exchanged in whole for one or more other Global Securities registered in the name of the successor Depositary, whereupon such designated successor shall be the Depositary for such successor Global Security or Global Securities and the provisions of clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this provision shall continue to apply thereto.
          (3) Subject in all cases to clause (2) above, any exchange of a Global Security for other Notes may be made in whole or in part, and all Notes issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be registered in such names as the Depositary for such Global Security shall direct.
          (4) Every Note authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, whether pursuant to Section 304, 306, 906 or 1107 of the Original Indenture or this Article IV orotherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security, unless upon a Definitive Securities Issuance Date such Note is issued as a Definitive Security.
 
          (b) Upon the date 90 days after the Company has received notice from the Depositary pursuant to Section 4.01(a)(2)(A) and has not appointed a successor Depositary or
 
has delivered a Company Order to the Trustee pursuant to Section 401(a)(2)(B) or, in either case, such earlier date as the Company elects by written notice to the Trustee (the ""), (x) the Company shall promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Definitive Securities in definitive, fully registered form without interest coupons; (y) the Company shall execute, and upon a Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, Definitive Securities in a like aggregate principal amount as the outstanding Global Securities registered, Definitive Securities in such names and authorized denominations as the Depositary shall instruct the Security Registrar in accordance with the Applicable Procedures; and (2) the Security Registrar shall cause the aggregate principal amount of such outstanding Global Securities to be reduced to zero pursuant to Section 4.08. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Securities to the Persons in whose names such Definitive Securities are so registered. Any Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security pursuant to this Section 4.01 shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security may not be exchanged for a Definitive Security prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period. Neither the Company nor the Security Registrar will be liable for any delay by the Depositary in identifying the owners of beneficial interests in a Global Security, and each of the Company and the Security Registrar may conclusively rely on, and will be protected in relying on, instructions from the Depositary for all purposes of the Indenture.
Definitive Securities Issuance Date
          (c) The Company, the Trustee and every Person who takes or holds any beneficial interest in a Global Security agree that:
          (1) the Company and the Trustee may deal with the Depositary as sole owner of the Global Security and as the authorized representative of such Person;
          (2) such Person's rights in the Global Security shall be exercised only through the Depositary and shall be limited to those established by law and agreement between such Person and the Depositary and/or Participants and Indirect Participants of the Depositary;
          (3) the Depositary and its participants make book-entry transfers of beneficial ownership among, and receive and transmit distributions of principal and interest on the Global Securities to, such Persons in accordance with the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary;
          (4) none of the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests; and
          (5) notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) subject to the provisions of Section 4.01(c)(2), the Holder of a Global Security shall be entitled to grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Participants and Indirect Participants and Persons that may hold interests through Participants and Indirect Participants, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under the Indenture or the Notes; and (y) nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any
 
written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Participants, the operation of customary practices of such Depositary governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of a beneficial interest in any Global Security.
          SECTION 4.02. . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities will be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (a) or (b) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following provisions of this Article IV, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Securities
          (a) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Security in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Security may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser), except pursuant to Rule 144A. Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Security may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in such Unrestricted Global Security. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Security Registrar to effect the transfers described in the preceding sentence of this Section 4.02(a).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Security
provided
however
          (b) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 4.02(a) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Security Registrar either:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
     (A) (i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
      (ii) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or
     (B) upon the Definitive Securities Issuance Date; both
(i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
(ii) instructions given by the Depositary to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Security shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in Section 4.02(b)(B)(i) above.
Upon consummation of a Registered Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 4.06, the requirements of this Section 4.02(b) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities (or transmitted to the Security Registrar via the Depositary's book-entry system). Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities contained in the Indenture, the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of each relevant Global Security pursuant to Section 4.08.
          (c) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Security if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 4.02(b) above and the Security Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Security
     (i) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
Exhibit B
     (ii) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
Exhibit B
          (d) A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 4.02(b) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Beneficial Interests in the Unrestricted Global Security.
          (i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to a Registered Exchange Offer in accordance with the applicable Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal (or via the Depositary's book-entry system) that, among other things, it is not (i) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (ii) an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company and that any Exchange Securities to be acquired by such holder will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business;
          (ii) such transfer is effected pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the applicable Registration Rights Agreement;
 
          (iii) such transfer is effected by an Exchanging Dealer pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the applicable Registration Rights Agreement; or
          (iv) the Security Registrar receives the following:
          (A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; or
Exhibit C
          (B) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (iv), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (ii) or (iv) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 303 of the Original Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (ii) or (iv) above.
          (e) Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Security cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security.
Exchange or Transfer Prohibited.
          SECTION 4.03. . Inasmuch as Definitive Securities will be issued only from and after a Definitive Securities Issuance Date in the limited circumstances specified in clause (2) of Section 4.01(a) whereby Notes are no longer to be represented by Global Securities, other than as and to the extent specified in Section 4.01, any holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Security will not be entitled to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Security or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Security.
No Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Securities
          SECTION 4.04. Inasmuch as Definitive Securities will be issued only from and after a Definitive Securities Issuance Date in the limited circumstances specified in clause (2) of Section 4.01(a) whereby Notes are no longer to be represented by Global Securities, the Holder of a Definitive Security will not be entitled to exchange such Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in a Global Security.
No Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Beneficial Interests.
 
          SECTION 4.05. . From and after any Definitive Securities Issuance Date, upon request by a Holder of Definitive Securities and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 4.05, the Security Registrar shall register the transfer of, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Definitive Securities, or exchange Definitive Securities for other Definitive Securities, in each case, of any authorized denominations and of like aggregate principal amount. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Security Registrar the Definitive Securities to be transferred or exchanged duly endorsed, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 4.05.
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Definitive Securities
          (a) . Any Restricted Definitive Security may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security if the Security Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
          (i) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
Exhibit B
          (ii) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
Exhibit B
          (iii) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of hereto, including the certifications required by item (3) thereof.
Exhibit B
          (b) . Any Restricted Definitive Security may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Security or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security if:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
          (i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to a Registered Exchange Offer in accordance with the applicable Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal (or via the Depositary's book-entry system) that, among other things, it is not (a) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (b) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company and that any Exchange Securities to be acquired by such holder will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business;
          (ii) any such transfer is effected pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the applicable Registration Rights Agreement;
 
          (iii) any such transfer is effected by an Exchanging Dealer pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the applicable Registration Rights Agreement; or
          (iv) the Security Registrar receives the following:
          (A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to exchange such Securities for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; or
Exhibit C
          (B) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security proposes to transfer such Securities to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
Exhibit B
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (iv), if the Security Registrar so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
          (c) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Securities may transfer such Securities to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Security Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Security pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
          SECTION 4.06. . Upon the occurrence of a Registered Exchange Offer in accordance with the applicable Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 2.02, the Trustee shall authenticate:
Registered Exchange Offer
          (a) one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal (or via the Depositary's book-entry system), among other things, that (i) any Exchange Securities to be acquired by such Persons will be acquired in the ordinary course of business, (ii) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (iii) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Registered Exchange Offer; and
          (b) Unrestricted Definitive Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of any Restricted Definitive Securities tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify as specified in clause (a), and accepted for exchange in the Registered Exchange Offer.
     Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Security Registrar shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Securities beneficial interests in
 
which were so accepted to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate, and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of any Restricted Definitive Securities so accepted, against surrender of such exchanged Restricted Definitive Securities so accepted, Unrestricted Definitive Securities in the appropriate principal amount.
     Upon the consummation of a Registered Exchange Offer with respect to any Restricted Securities, (x) all requirements in this Article IV pertaining to Restricted Securities will apply with respect to Holders of such Restricted Securities that do not exchange their Restricted Securities for Exchange Securities; and (y) Exchange Securities constituting a Global Security (if the exchanged Note was a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security) or a Definitive Security (if the exchanged Note was a Restricted Definitive Security) will be available to holders of such exchanged beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Security or to Holders of the exchanged Restricted Definitive Securities in such Registered Exchange Offer.
          SECTION 4.07. . The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Securities and Definitive Securities issued under this First Supplemental Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture.
Legends
          (a) .
Private Placement Legend
          (i) Except as provided in Section 4.07(a)(ii) or 4.07(b) below or as otherwise agreed between the Company and the Holder, each Global Security and each Definitive Security (and all Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
     
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
     
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A")), OR (B) IT IS A NON-U.S. PURCHASER AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, PURSUANT TO RULE 904 OF REGULATION S, AND (2) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE), ONLY (A) TO BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT
 
WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED OR BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, PURSUANT TO RULE 904 OF REGULATION S, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION, INCLUDING ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM AND/OR A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER OR EXCHANGE IN THE FORM PRESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
     
BY ITS ACQUISITION AND HOLDING OF THIS SECURITY THE HOLDER THEREOF WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED, WARRANTED AND AGREED THAT EITHER (I) IT IS NOT AND WILL NOT BE FOR SO LONG AS IT HOLDS ANY SECURITY (OR INTEREST IN A SECURITY) AN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN OR ARRANGEMENT SUBJECT TO THE FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENT OF TITLE I OF U.S. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), A "PLAN" OR ARRANGEMENT SUBJECT TO SECTION 4975 OF THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE"), OR AN ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS INCLUDE PLAN ASSETS BY REASON OF SUCH EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN OR PLAN'S INVESTMENT IN THE ENTITY, OR A GOVERNMENTAL, NON-U.S., CHURCH OR OTHER PLAN WHICH IS SUBJECT TO ANY FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL, NON-U.S. OR OTHER LAWS OR REGULATIONS THAT ARE SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR TO SUCH PROVISIONS OF ERISA OR THE CODE ("SIMILAR LAWS"), OR (II) THE PURCHASE, HOLDING AND DISPOSITION OF THIS SECURITY WILL NOT CONSTITUTE A NON-EXEMPT PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER SECTION 406 OF ERISA OR SECTION 4975 OF THE CODE OR, IN THE CASE OF A GOVERNMENTAL, NON-U.S., CHURCH OR OTHER PLAN, A SIMILAR VIOLATION UNDER ANY APPLICABLE SIMILAR LAWS.
 
     (ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Security or Definitive Security issued pursuant to Sections 4.02(d), 4.05(b), 4.05(c) or 4.06 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
          (b) (i) The Company, acting in its discretion, may remove (and, at the request of any Holder in accordance with Sections 4.07(b)(v) or (vi), as applicable, will remove) the Private Placement Legend from any Restricted Security at any time on or after the Resale Restriction Termination Date applicable to such Restricted Security. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, the Company may effect such removal by issuing and delivering, in exchange for any Restricted Security, an Unrestricted Security without the Private Placement Legend, registered to the same Holder and in an equal principal amount and constituting a Global Security (if the exchanged Security was a Restricted Global Security) or a Definitive Security (if the exchanged Security was a Restricted Definitive Security) or, in lieu of issuance and delivery of a new Unrestricted Global Security for a Restricted Global Security, causing the Trustee to endorse an increase in aggregate principal amount of any then outstanding Unrestricted Global Security equal to the aggregate principal amount of such Restricted Global Security; and upon receipt by the Trustee of a Company Order stating that the Resale Restriction Termination Date applicable to such Restricted Security has occurred and requesting the authentication and delivery of an Unrestricted Security (or endorsement of an increase in aggregate principal amount of any then outstanding Unrestricted Global Security as aforesaid) in exchange therefor (which Company Order shall not be required to be accompanied by any Opinion of Counsel or any other document) given at least three Business Days in advance of the proposed date of exchange specified therein (which shall be no earlier than such Resale Restriction Termination Date),
     (A) if such exchanged Security is a Restricted Global Security, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Unrestricted Security to the Depositary or pursuant to such Depositary's instructions or hold such Unrestricted Global Security as Securities Custodian for the Depositary (or endorse an increase in aggregate principal amount of any then outstanding Unrestricted Global Security as aforesaid) and shall request the Depositary to, or, if the Trustee is Securities Custodian of such Restricted Security, shall itself, surrender such Restricted Security in exchange for such Unrestricted Security without the Private Placement Legend and thereupon cancel such Restricted Security so surrendered; or
     (B) if such exchanged Security is a Restricted Definitive Security, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person exchanging such Restricted Definitive Security such Unrestricted Definitive Security against surrender of such Restricted Definitive Security,
all as directed in such Company Order. For purposes of determining whether the Resale Restriction Termination Date has occurred with respect to any Restricted Security or delivering any Company Order pursuant to this Section 4.07(b) with respect to such Restricted Security, (i) only those Notes which a Principal Officer of the Company actually knows (after reasonable inquiry) to be or to have been owned by an Affiliate of the Company shall be deemed to be or to have been, respectively, owned by an Affiliate of the Company; and (ii) "" means the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the treasurer or the principal accounting officer of the Company.
Principal Officer
 
     (ii) For purposes of this Section 4.07(b), all provisions relating to the removal of the Private Placement Legend above shall relate, if the Resale Restriction Termination Date has occurred only with respect to a portion of the Notes evidenced by a Restricted Global Security, to such portion of the Notes so evidenced as to which the Resale Restriction Termination Date has occurred.
     (iii) Each owner of a beneficial interest in any Note evidenced by any Restricted Global Security, by its acceptance thereof, (A) authorizes and consents to, (B) appoints the Company as its agent for the sole purpose of delivering such electronic messages, executing and delivering such instruments and taking such other actions, on such owner's behalf, as the Depositary or the Trustee may require to effect, and (C) upon the request of the Company, agrees to deliver such electronic messages, execute and deliver such instruments and take such other actions as the Depositary or the Trustee may require, or as shall otherwise be necessary to effect, the removal of the Private Placement Legend (including by means of the exchange of all or the portion of such Restricted Global Security evidencing such Note for a certificate evidencing such Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend) at any time after the Resale Restriction Termination Date with respect to such Note.
     (iv) After a transfer of any Restricted Security pursuant to and during the period of the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such Restricted Security, (x) all requirements pertaining to the Private Placement Legend will cease to apply to such Restricted Security; and (y) Unrestricted Securities constituting an Unrestricted Global Security (if the transferred Note was a Restricted Global Security) or an Unrestricted Definitive Security (if the transferred Note was a Definitive Security), in each case without the Private Placement Legend, will be available to the transferee of the holder of beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Security or to the Holder of the transferred Restricted Definitive Security upon directions to transfer such Holder's beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security or surrender of such transferring Holder's Restricted Definitive Security, as applicable.
     (v) On and after the Resale Restriction Termination Date with respect to a Restricted Global Security, promptly upon request to the Company by the Holder of such Restricted Global Security or owner of beneficial interests therein, in exchange for such Restricted Global Security, either (x) the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of such Restricted Global Security or (y) the Trustee shall endorse an increase in aggregate principal amount of any then outstanding Unrestricted Global Security equal to the aggregate principal amount of such Restricted Global Security, and thereupon the Trustee shall cancel such Restricted Global Security.
     (vi) On and after the Resale Restriction Termination Date with respect to a Restricted Definitive Security, promptly upon request to the Company by the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security and upon surrender to the Trustee of such Restricted Definitive Security, in exchange for such Restricted Definitive Security, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, an Unrestricted Definitive Security in the same aggregate principal
 
amount as such Restricted Definitive Security, and thereupon the Trustee shall cancel such Restricted Definitive Security.
     (c) . Each Global Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Security Legend
THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE SECURITY REGISTRAR MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO ARTICLE IV OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 4.01 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND (III) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 4.08 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND SECTION 309 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE.
     
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
          SECTION 4.08. . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Security have been exchanged for Definitive Securities or a particular Global Security has been redeemed or canceled in whole and not in
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Securities
 
part, each such Global Security shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 309 of the Original Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Security is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security or for Definitive Securities:
          (x) the Security Registrar shall reflect on the Security Register for the Notes the date and a corresponding decrease in the principal amount of such Global Security;
          (y) the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Security shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Security by the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and
          (z) if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security, (1) the Security Registrar shall reflect on the Security Register for the Notes the date and a corresponding increase in the principal amount of such other Global Security and (2) such other Global Security shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Security by the Trustee to reflect such increase.
          SECTION 4.09. .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
          (a) To permit registrations of transfer and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Securities and Definitive Securities at the Security Registrar's request in accordance with provisions providing for such registrations of transfer and exchange in this Article IV and Sections 304, 306, 906 and 1107 of the Original Indenture.
          (b) No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 306, 906 or 1107 of the Original Indenture or Article IV of this First Supplemental Indenture not involving any transfer.
          (c) All Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under the Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
          (d) If the Notes are to be redeemed in whole or in part, the Company shall not be required (A) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of selection of any such Notes for redemption in part under Section 1103 of the Original Indenture and ending at the close of business on the day of such selection, or (B) to register the transfer of or exchange any Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
          (e) Prior to due presentment of a Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name
 
such Note is registered as the owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 307 of the Original Indenture) any interest on such Note and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          (f) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Security Registrar pursuant to this Article IV to effect a transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
          (g) The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this First Supplemental Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Global Security or Definitive Security other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as is expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this First Supplemental Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to conformity with the express requirements hereof.
          (h) Neither the Trustee nor any Agent shall have any responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
          SECTION 4.10. . The provisions of this Article IV shall apply in lieu of the second through eighth paragraphs of Section 305 of the Original Indenture and shall apply only to the Notes.
Applicability
          SECTION 5.01. . Except as expressly amended hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This First Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Original Indenture for all purposes, and every Holder of Notes shall be bound hereby.
Ratification of Original Indenture; First Supplemental Indenture Part of Original Indenture
          SECTION 5.02. . The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except with respect to the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture or of the Notes. At all times the Trustee shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
Concerning the Trustee
          SECTION 5.03. . This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          SECTION 5.04. . THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE
Governing Law
 
PARTIES HERETO AND THERETO, INCLUDING THE INTERPRETATION, CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND ENFORCEABILITY THEREOF, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
          SECTION 5.05. . The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
          SECTION 5.06. . Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture or the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and thereto and their successors hereunder and thereunder and the Holders of the Notes, any benefit of any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under the Original Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture or the Notes.
Benefits under First Supplemental Indenture, etc
          SECTION 5.07. . All agreements of the Company in this First Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this First Supplemental Indenture shall bind its successor.
Successors
          SECTION 5.08. . The changes, modifications and supplements to the Original Indenture effected by this First Supplemental Indenture shall be applicable only with respect to, and shall only govern the terms of, and shall be deemed expressly included in this First Supplemental Indenture solely for the benefit of, the Notes which may be issued from time to time, and shall not apply to any other Securities that may be issued under the Original Indenture unless a supplemental indenture with respect to such other Securities specifically incorporates such changes, modifications and supplements.
Scope of Supplemental Indenture
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
     
THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE SECURITY REGISTRAR MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO ARTICLE IV OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 4.01 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND (III) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 4.08 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND SECTION 309 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE.*
     
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.*
     
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS
 
 
EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
     
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A")), OR (B) IT IS A NON-U.S. PURCHASER AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, PURSUANT TO RULE 904 OF REGULATION S, AND (2) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE), ONLY (A) TO BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED OR BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, PURSUANT TO RULE 904 OF REGULATION S, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION, INCLUDING ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM AND/OR A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER OR EXCHANGE IN THE FORM PRESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.**
     
BY ITS ACQUISITION AND HOLDING OF THIS SECURITY THE HOLDER THEREOF WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE REPRESENTED, WARRANTED AND AGREED THAT EITHER (I) IT IS NOT AND WILL NOT BE FOR SO LONG AS IT HOLDS ANY SECURITY (OR INTEREST IN A SECURITY) AN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN OR ARRANGEMENT SUBJECT TO THE FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENT OF TITLE I OF U.S. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), A "PLAN" OR ARRANGEMENT SUBJECT TO SECTION 4975 OF THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE"), OR AN ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS INCLUDE PLAN ASSETS BY REASON OF SUCH EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN OR PLAN'S INVESTMENT IN THE ENTITY, OR A GOVERNMENTAL, NON-U.S., CHURCH OR OTHER PLAN WHICH IS SUBJECT TO ANY FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL, NON-U.S. OR OTHER LAWS OR REGULATIONS THAT ARE SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR TO SUCH PROVISIONS OF ERISA OR THE
 
CODE ("SIMILAR LAWS"), OR (II) THE PURCHASE, HOLDING AND DISPOSITION OF THIS SECURITY WILL NOT CONSTITUTE A NON-EXEMPT PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER SECTION 406 OF ERISA OR SECTION 4975 OF THE CODE OR, IN THE CASE OF A GOVERNMENTAL, NON-U.S., CHURCH OR OTHER PLAN, A SIMILAR VIOLATION UNDER ANY APPLICABLE SIMILAR LAWS.**
 
     BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of ___________________ Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as is indicated on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security attached to this Security]* on August 15, 2021, and to pay interest thereon from August 17, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year, commencing February 15, 2012, and at the Maturity thereof, at the rate of 3.20% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the February 1 or August 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest so payable, but not punctually paid or duly provided for, will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Security may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Company
     Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made (x) if this Security is a Global Security, through the Depositary or (y) if this Security is not a Global Security, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in New York, New York, against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal thereof or any payment of interest that becomes payable on a day other than an Interest Payment Date, and in the case of clause (x) or clause (y), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that if this Security is not a Global Security, (i) payment of interest on an Interest Payment Date will be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; and all other payments will be made by check against surrender of this Security; (ii) all payments by check will be made in next-day funds (, funds that become available on the day after the check is cashed); and (iii) notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii) above, with respect to any payment of any amount due on this Security, if this Security is in a denomination of at least $1,000,000 and the Holder hereof at the time of surrender hereof or, in the case of any payment of interest on any
provided
however
i.e.
 
Interest Payment Date, the Holder thereof on the related Regular Record Date delivers a written request to the Paying Agent to make such payment by wire transfer at least five Business Days before the date such payment becomes due, together with appropriate wire transfer instructions specifying an account at a bank in New York, New York, the Company shall make such payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account at such bank in New York City, any such wire instructions, once properly given by a Holder as to this Security, remaining in effect as to such Holder and this Security unless and until new instructions are given in the manner described above and , that notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, if this Security is a Global Security, payment shall be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as permitted in said Indenture.
provided further
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Attest:
                     
                     
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
                    
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of senior securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2008, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (herein so called) thereto, dated as of August 17, 2011 (herein called the "", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such First Supplemental Indenture), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, the aggregate principal amount of which is not limited. The aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series authorized for issuance pursuant to the Indenture is limited to the $750,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series initially authorized for issuance on the Issue Date plus such additional amounts of Securities of this series as may be authorized for issuance from time to time thereafter in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture (except for Securities of this series authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of this series pursuant to the Indenture).
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
     The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon prior notice, as provided below, at any time, as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company. If the Securities of this series are redeemed prior to May 15, 2021, the Redemption Price will be equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities of this series to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities of this series to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Securities of this series to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the date on which the Securities of this series are to be redeemed on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points, plus any interest accrued but not paid on the Securities of this series to be redeemed to the date on which the Securities of this series are to be redeemed (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). If the Securities of this series are redeemed on or after May 15, 2021, the Redemption Price will be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities of this series to be redeemed, plus any interest accrued but not paid on the Securities of this series to be redeemed to the date on which the Securities of this series are to be redeemed (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Securities of this series or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Securities of this series are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee will select Securities of this series for redemption on a pro rata basis. No Securities of this series of $2,000 or less can be redeemed in part. Notices of redemption will be delivered at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Securities of this series to be redeemed at its registered address, except that notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if the notice is
 
issued in connection with a Covenant Defeasance or Defeasance with respect to the Securities of this series or a satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture with respect to Securities of this series. Notice of any redemption, may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to one or more conditions precedent. A notice of redemption need not set forth the exact Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.
     "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Securities of this series, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue with respect to Securities of this series (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity for the Securities of this series, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (ii) if that release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
     "Comparable Treasury Issue" means, with respect to the Securities of this series, the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities of this series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities of this series to be redeemed. "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
     "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for any Securities of this series (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and four other primary U.S. Government securities dealers in the United States (each, a "Primary Treasury Dealer") appointed by the Trustee in consultation with the Company; , , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
provided
however
 
     "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day preceding that Redemption Date.
     In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared, or shall automatically become, due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected (considered together as one class for this purpose). The Indenture also contains provisions (i) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected under the Indenture (considered together as one class for this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and (ii) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of any series to be affected under the Indenture (with each such series considered separately for this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default
 
as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith, except as provided in Section 4.09(b) of the First Supplemental Indenture.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     In addition to the rights provided to Holders of Securities of this series under the Indenture, Holders of Securities of this series will have the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 17, 2011, among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof. All references in this Security to "interest" shall be deemed to include "Additional Interest" as defined in and to the extent required by the Registration Rights Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires.**
 
     Each owner of beneficial interests in this Restricted Global Security, by its acceptance thereof, (A) authorizes and consents to, (B) appoints the Company as its agent for the sole purpose of delivering such electronic messages, executing and delivering such instruments and taking such other actions, on such owner's behalf, as the Depository or the Trustee may require to effect, and (C) upon the request of the Company, agrees to deliver such electronic messages, execute and deliver such instruments and take such other actions as the Depository or the Trustee may require, or as shall otherwise be necessary to effect, the removal of the Private Placement Legend hereon (including by means of the exchange of all or the portion of this Restricted Global Security for a certificate evidencing the Note evidenced hereby that does not bear the Private Placement Legend) at any time after the Resale Restriction Termination Date with respect to this Security.
***
     This Security and the Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
     All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
 
     The following increases or decreases in the principal amount of this Global Security have been made:
 
 
Baker Hughes Incorporated 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100 Houston, Texas 77019
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. 601 Travis Street, 18 Floor Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
th
          Re:   3.20% Senior Notes due 2021
     Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2008, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of August 17, 2011 (the "Indenture"), between Baker Hughes Incorporated, as issuer (the "Company") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
     ______________ (the "Transferor") owns and proposes to transfer the Security[ies] or beneficial interest in such Security[ies] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $___________ (the "Transfer"), to __________ (the "Transferee"), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
[CHECK ALL THAT APPLY]
     1.  CHECK IF TRANSFEREE IS A QIB IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 144A. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Security is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Security for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Security or the Restricted Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
     2.  CHECK IF TRANSFEREE WILL TAKE DELIVERY PURSUANT TO REGULATION S. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was
o
 
originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the Transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the Transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser), except pursuant to Rule 144A. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Security or the Restricted Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
     3.  CHECK IF TRANSFEREE WILL TAKE DELIVERY PURSUANT TO ANY PROVISION OF THE SECURITIES ACT OTHER THAN RULE 144A OR REGULATION S. The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities and Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act (other than Rule 144A or Regulation S) and any applicable "blue sky" securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
     4.  CHECK AND COMPLETE IF TRANSFEREE WILL TAKE DELIVERY OF (i) A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN AN UNRESTRICTED GLOBAL SECURITY OR (ii) AN UNRESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SECURITY:
o
          (a) CHECK IF TRANSFER IS PURSUANT TO RULE 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
o
          (b) CHECK IF TRANSFER IS PURSUANT TO REGULATION S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
o
 
          (c) CHECK IF TRANSFER IS PURSUANT TO OTHER EXEMPTION. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
o
     This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
Dated: ,
                    
          
 
          [CHECK ONE OF (a) OR (b)]
2. After the Transfer the Transferee will hold:
          [CHECK ONE]
 
Baker Hughes Incorporated 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100 Houston, Texas 77019
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. 601 Travis Street, 18 Floor Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
th
     Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2008, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of August 17, 2011 (the "Indenture"), between Baker Hughes Incorporated, as issuer (the "Company") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
     ____________ (the "Owner") owns and proposes to exchange the Security[ies] or beneficial interest in such Security[ies] specified herein, in the principal amount of $____________ (the "Exchange"). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
     1.  CHECK IF EXCHANGE IS FROM BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN A RESTRICTED GLOBAL SECURITY TO BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN AN UNRESTRICTED GLOBAL SECURITY. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable "blue sky" securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
     2.  CHECK IF EXCHANGE IS FROM RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SECURITY TO UNRESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SECURITY. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of
o
 
 
a Restricted Definitive Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable "blue sky" securities laws of any state of the United States.
     This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
Dated: ,
                    
          

Exhibit 10.1
Execution Version
New York, New York August 17, 2011
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
INCORPORATED
As Representatives of the Initial Purchasers named in the attached Schedule A
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 270 Park Avenue New York, New York 10017
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Baker Hughes Incorporated, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several initial purchasers named in Schedule A hereto (the ""), upon the terms set forth in a purchase agreement, dated August 10, 2011 (the ""), $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.20% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "") relating to the initial placement of the Notes (the ""). To satisfy a condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers under the Purchase Agreement, the Company hereby agrees with the Initial Purchasers for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Notes (including the Initial Purchasers) and the New Notes (as defined herein) (each a "" and, together, the ""), as follows:
Company
Initial Purchasers
Purchase Agreement
Notes
Initial Placement
Holder
Holders
          1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Registration Rights Agreement (this ""), the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
Agreement
          "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Act
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the last paragraph of Section 5 hereof.
Advice
          "" of any specified Person shall have the same meaning as in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D of the Act.
Affiliate
 
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.
Agreement
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b)(ii) hereof.
Blackout Period
          "" shall mean any broker or dealer registered as such under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer
          "" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City.
Business Day
          "" shall mean August 17, 2011, the date on which the Notes are initially issued.
Closing Date
          "" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
          "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
          "" shall mean the 180-day period following the effective date of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, exclusive of any period during which any stop order shall be in effect suspending the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, or such shorter period as will terminate when (i) all New Notes held by Exchanging Dealers or Initial Purchasers have been sold pursuant thereto or (ii) Exchanging Broker-Dealers are no longer required to deliver a Prospectus in connection with market-making or other trading activities, whichever occurs first.
Exchange Offer Registration Period
          "" shall mean a registration statement of the Company on an appropriate form under the Act with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer, all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments thereto, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
          "" shall mean any Holder (which may include any of the Initial Purchasers) that is a Broker-Dealer and elects to exchange for New Notes any Notes that it acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (but not directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company).
Exchanging Dealer
          "" shall mean each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Act) prepared by or on behalf of the Company (or any of its agents or representatives) or used or referred to by the Company (or any of its agents or representatives) in connection with the sale of the Notes or the New Notes.
Free Writing Prospectus
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Holder
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof.
Indemnified Holder
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(d) hereof.
Indemnified Person
 
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(d) hereof.
Indemnifying Person
          "" shall mean the Indenture dated as of October 28, 2008, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of the date hereof, as the same may be further supplemented and amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Initial Placement
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Initial Purchasers
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof.
Losses
          "" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Notes or New Notes, as applicable, registered under a Registration Statement.
Majority Holders
          "" shall mean the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that shall administer an underwritten offering.
Managing Underwriters
          "" or "" shall mean the promissory notes of the Company that are identical in all material respects to the Notes (except that the interest rate step-up provisions and the transfer restrictions shall be eliminated) and to be issued under the Indenture or the New Notes Indenture.
New Notes
Exchange Notes
          "" shall mean an indenture between the Company and the New Notes Trustee, identical in all material respects to the Indenture (except that the interest rate step-up provisions and the transfer restrictions shall be eliminated).
New Notes Indenture
          "" shall mean The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. or another bank or trust company serving as trustee with respect to the New Notes under the New Notes Indenture.
New Notes Trustee
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Notes
          "" shall mean the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Notes or the New Notes covered by such Registration Statement, and all amendments and supplements thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Purchase Agreement
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.
Registration Default
 
          "" shall mean the proposed offer of the Company to issue and deliver to the Holders of the Notes that are not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in such offer, in exchange for the Notes, a like aggregate principal amount of the Exchange Notes.
Registered Exchange Offer
          "" shall mean any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement that covers any of the Notes or the New Notes pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, any amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments (in each case including the Prospectus contained therein), all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
          "" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
Shelf Registration
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b)(ii) hereof.
Shelf Registration Period
          "" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 3 hereof which covers some or all of the Notes or New Notes, as applicable, on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 hereof.
Special Interest
          "" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder and any successor act, rules and regulations.
Trust Indenture Act
          "" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Notes and New Notes under the Indenture.
Trustee
          "" shall mean any underwriter of Notes or New Notes in connection with an offering thereof under a Registration Statement.
Underwriter
          2. .
Registered Exchange Offer
          (a) Except as set forth in Section 3 below, the Company shall prepare, at its cost, and shall file with the Commission the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective under the Act.
          (b) Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offer.
          (c) In connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
 
          (i) deliver to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
          (ii) commence and use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Registered Exchange Offer no later than August 17, 2012, and hold the Registered Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 Business Days;
          (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective under the Act, supplemented and amended as required under the Act to ensure that it is available for sales of New Notes by Exchanging Dealers or the Initial Purchasers during the Exchange Offer Registration Period;
          (iv) utilize the services of a depositary for the Registered Exchange Offer, which may be the Trustee, the New Notes Trustee or an Affiliate of either of them;
          (v) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Notes at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last Business Day on which the Registered Exchange Offer is open; and
          (vi) comply in all material respects with all applicable laws.
          (d) As soon as practicable after the close of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
          (i) accept for exchange all Notes tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer;
          (ii) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation in accordance with Section 5(r) all Notes so accepted for exchange; and
          (iii) cause the Trustee or New Notes Trustee, as the case may be, promptly to authenticate and deliver to each Holder of Notes a principal amount of New Notes equal to the principal amount of the Notes of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
          (e) Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Registered Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the New Notes (x) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission in (pub. avail. June 5, 1991) and (pub. avail. May 13, 1988), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993 and similar no-action letters; and (y) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with any secondary resale transaction which must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc.
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
 
under the Act if the resales are of New Notes obtained by such Holder in exchange for Notes acquired by such Holder directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates. Accordingly, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer shall be required to represent to the Company that, at the time of the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer:
          (i) any New Notes received by such Holder will be acquired in the ordinary course of business;
          (ii) such Holder will have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution of the Notes or the New Notes within the meaning of the Act;
          (iii) such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company or if it is an Affiliate, such Holder will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act to the extent applicable;
          (iv) if such Holder is not a Broker-Dealer, that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, the distribution of the New Notes; and
          (v) if such Holder is a Broker-Dealer, that it will receive New Notes for its own account in exchange for Notes that were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Notes.
          3. .
Shelf Registration
          (a) If (i) due to any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Commission's staff, the Company determines that it is not permitted to effect the Registered Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2 hereof; (ii) for any other reason the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated by August 17, 2012; (iii) the Initial Purchasers determine upon advice of their counsel that a Shelf Registration Statement must be filed in connection with any public offering or sale of Notes that are not eligible to be exchanged for New Notes in the Registered Exchange Offer and that are held by them following consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer; or (iv) any Holder (other than the Initial Purchasers) is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer or does not receive freely tradeable New Notes in the Registered Exchange Offer other than by reason of such Holder being an Affiliate of the Company (it being understood that the requirement that a participating Broker-Dealer deliver the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in connection with sales of New Notes shall not result in such New Notes being not "freely tradeable"), and, in the case of clause (iii) or (iv), the Company is notified in writing of such determination, non-eligibility or failure, as the case may be, no more than 30 days after the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall effect a Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with subsection (b) below.
          (b) If required pursuant to subsection (a) above,
 
          (i) the Company, at its cost, shall as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than 90 days after such obligation to file arises, file with the Commission and use its reasonable best efforts to cause to become effective under the Act on or prior to August 17, 2012, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Notes or the New Notes, as applicable, by the Holders thereof from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by such Holders and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement; , , that no Holder (other than the Initial Purchasers) shall be entitled to have the Notes or New Notes held by it covered by such Shelf Registration Statement unless such Holder agrees in writing to be bound by all of the provisions of this Agreement applicable to such Holder; and , that with respect to New Notes received by the Initial Purchasers in exchange for Notes constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, the Company may, if permitted by current interpretations by the Commission's staff, file a post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement containing the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in satisfaction of their obligations under this subsection with respect thereto, and any such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as so amended, shall be referred to herein as, and governed by the provisions herein applicable to, a Shelf Registration Statement;
provided
however
provided
further
          (ii) the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the Act, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders until the earliest of (A) the time when all of the Notes or New Notes, as applicable, covered by the Shelf Registration Statement can be sold pursuant to Rule 144 without limitation by non-affiliates of the Company under clause (d) of Rule 144, (B) the date on which all the Notes or New Notes, as applicable, covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, and (C) one year from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission (in any such case, such period being called the ""); it being understood that the Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the requisite period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Notes or New Notes covered thereby not being able to offer and sell such Notes or New Notes during that period, unless (A) such action is required by applicable law or Commission policy; or (B) such action is taken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including, but not limited to, the acquisition or divestiture of assets (the period during which the Shelf Registration Statement is not available under clause (A) or (B), the ""), so long as the Company promptly thereafter complies with the requirements of Section 5(k) hereof, if applicable; and
Shelf Registration Period
Blackout Period
          (iii) the Company shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the
 
effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or such amendment or supplement, to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission.
          4. . If (a) on or prior to August 17, 2012, (x) the Registered Exchange Offer has not been consummated and (y) a Shelf Registration Statement is not then effective under the Securities Act, or (b) after either the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement has been become effective, such Registration Statement thereafter ceases to be effective or usable in connection with resales of Notes or New Notes in accordance with and during the periods specified in this Agreement, other than a Shelf Registration Statement during any Blackout Period to the extent such Blackout Period does not exceed 60 days in any three-month period or 90 days in any 12-month month period (each such event referred to in clauses (a) and (b), a ""), then, as liquidated damages, interest ("") will accrue on the principal amount of the affected Notes and the New Notes (in addition to the stated interest on the Notes and New Notes) from and including the date on which any such Registration Default shall occur to but excluding the date on which all Registration Defaults have been cured (such cure to include, for the avoidance of doubt, consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer or an effective Shelf Registration Statement in the case of (x) and (y) of clause (a) even if such consummation or effectiveness occurs after August 17, 2012). Special Interest will accrue at a rate of 0.25% per annum. The Company will pay Special Interest on the regular interest payment dates specified in the Indenture and in the same manner as other interest. In no event will Special Interest accrue under more than one of the foregoing clauses (a) or (b) at any one time or exceed 0.25% per annum in any event.
Special Interest
Registration Default
Special Interest
     Any Special Interest that is accrued and unpaid on any Note at the time such Note is exchanged for a New Note shall be deemed to have accrued on such New Note.
          5. . In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement and, to the extent applicable, any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply.
Additional Registration Procedures
               (a) The Company shall:
               (i) furnish to the Representatives of the Initial Purchasers, if so requested, not less than five Business Days prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, a draft copy of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any Shelf Registration Statement, and each amendment thereof and each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein (including all documents incorporated by reference in any Shelf Registration Statement) and shall use its reasonable best efforts to reflect in each such document (excluding any documents incorporated by reference after such filing), when so filed with the Commission, such comments as the Initial Purchasers reasonably propose within such five Business Day period;
               (ii) include the information to the effect of that set forth in:
 
          (A) Annex A and Annex B hereto in the forepart of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement,
          (B) Annex C hereto in the underwriting or plan of distribution section of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, and
          (C) Annex D hereto in the letter of transmittal delivered pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer;
               (iii) if requested by the Initial Purchasers, include the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, subject to Section 5(o); and
               (iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, include the names of the Holders that propose to sell Notes or New Notes, as applicable, pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement as selling Note holders, subject to Section 5(o).
               (b) The Company shall ensure that:
               (i) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder; and
               (ii) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective (within the meaning of Rule 430B under the Act), contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
               (c) The Company shall advise the Initial Purchasers in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement and the Holders of Notes or New Notes covered by any Shelf Registration Statement and any Exchanging Dealer under any Exchange Offer Registration Statement that has provided in writing to the Company a telephone or facsimile number and address for notices, and, if requested by the Initial Purchasers or any such Holder or Exchanging Dealer, the Company shall confirm such advice in writing (which notice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) hereof shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the Company shall have remedied the basis for such suspension):
               (i) when a Registration Statement and any amendment thereto has been filed with the Commission and when the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective;
 
               (ii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or for additional information;
               (iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose;
               (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Notes or New Notes included therein for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose; and
               (v) of the happening of any event that requires any change in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus so that, as of such date, the statements therein are not misleading and do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein (in the case of the Registration Statement) or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
               (d) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or the qualification of the Notes or New Notes therein for sale in any jurisdiction as soon as practicable.
               (e) The Company shall furnish to each Holder of Notes or New Notes covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, if the Holder so requests, at least one copy of such Shelf Registration Statement, any post-effective amendment thereto, all material incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
               (f) The Company shall, during the Shelf Registration Period, deliver to each Holder of Notes or New Notes covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary Prospectus) included in such Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Holder may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Notes or New Notes in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes or New Notes covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Shelf Registration Statement, subject to the last paragraph of Section 5.
               (g) The Company shall furnish to each Exchanging Dealer and to each of the Initial Purchasers that so requests, without charge, at least one copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, excluding all material incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits thereto.
               (h) The Company shall promptly deliver to the Initial Purchasers, each Exchanging Dealer and each other Person required to deliver a Prospectus during the
 
Exchange Offer Registration Period, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus included in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as any such Person may reasonably request (excluding documents incorporated by reference). The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by the Initial Purchasers, any Exchanging Dealer and any such other Person that may be required to deliver a Prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer in connection with the offering and sale of the New Notes covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, subject to the last paragraph of Section 5.
               (i) Prior to the Registered Exchange Offer or any other offering of Notes or New Notes pursuant to any Registration Statement, the Company shall arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Notes or the New Notes for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder shall reasonably request and will maintain such qualification in effect so long as required; that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits or taxation, other than as required in connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
               (j) The Company shall cooperate with the Holders of Notes and New Notes to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing New Notes or Notes to be issued or sold pursuant to any Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such authorized denominations and registered in such names as Holders may request, to the extent permitted by the Indenture or New Notes Indenture, as applicable, or otherwise in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for the Depositary (as defined in the Purchase Agreement) or such other nominee.
               (k) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by subsections (c)(ii) through (v) above, the Company shall promptly (subject to permitted Blackout Periods in the case of any Shelf Registration Statement) prepare a post-effective amendment to the applicable Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the Initial Purchasers or Exchanging Dealers, the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. In such circumstances, the period of effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement provided for in Section 2 and the Shelf Registration Statement provided for in Section 3(b) shall each be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of a notice of suspension pursuant to Section 5(c) to and including the date when the Initial Purchasers, the Holders of the Notes or New Notes and any known Exchanging Dealer shall have received the Advice or such amended or supplemented Prospectus pursuant to this Section.
               (l) Not later than the effective date of any Registration Statement, the Company shall provide a CUSIP number for the New Notes.
 
               (m) The Company shall comply in all material respects with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and shall make generally available to the Holders of Notes or New Notes as soon as practicable after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act.
               (n) The Company shall cause the Indenture or the New Notes Indenture, as the case may be, to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in a timely manner.
               (o) The Company may require each Holder of Notes or New Notes to be sold pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the distribution of such Notes as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in such Registration Statement. The Company may exclude from such Shelf Registration Statement the Notes or New Notes of any Holder that fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
               (p) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall enter into such customary agreements and take all other appropriate actions reasonably requested (including if requested an underwriting agreement in customary form) in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of the Notes or New Notes, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting agreement is entered into, use its reasonable best efforts to cause the same to contain indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable than those set forth in Section 7 with respect to the selling Holders (or such other provisions and procedures acceptable to a majority in aggregate principal amount of Notes or New Notes, as applicable, held by Holders selling securities pursuant to such offering and the Managing Underwriters, if any).
               (q) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to, if requested by a selling Holder or the Managing Underwriters, if any:
               (i) make reasonably available for inspection by the Holders of Notes or New Notes to be registered thereunder, any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the Holders or any such Underwriter all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries; , , that any information that is designated in writing by the Company, in good faith, as confidential at the time such information is made available for inspection shall be kept confidential by the Holders or any such Underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent, unless such disclosure is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, or such information becomes available to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality;
provided
however
               (ii) cause the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the Holders or any such
 
Underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent in connection with any such Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations; , , that any information that is designated in writing by the Company, in good faith, as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by the Holders or any such Underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent, unless such disclosure is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, or such information becomes available to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality;
provided
however
               (iii) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of Notes or New Notes registered thereunder and the Underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to Underwriters in primary underwritten offerings;
               (iv) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Managing Underwriters, if any) addressed to each selling Holder and the Underwriters, if any, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and Underwriters;
               (v) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Shelf Registration Statement), addressed to each selling Holder of Notes or New Notes registered thereunder and the Underwriters, if any, in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, that to be an addressee of the comfort letter, if requested by the applicable accountant, each Underwriter and selling Holder may be required to confirm that it is in the category of person to whom a comfort letter may be delivered in accordance with applicable accounting literature; and
provided
               (vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Majority Holders and the Managing Underwriters, if any, including those to evidence compliance with Section 5(k) and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company .
The actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of this clause (q) shall be performed at (A) the effectiveness of such Shelf Registration Statement and each post-effective amendment thereto or, if later, at the time of any "take-down" under such Shelf Registration Statement, to the extent reasonably requested by a selling Holder or the Managing Underwriters, if any; and (B)
 
each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder.
               (r) If a Registered Exchange Offer is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Notes by Holders to the Company (or to such other Person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the New Notes, the Company shall mark, or caused to be marked, on the Notes so exchanged that such Notes are being canceled in exchange for the New Notes. In no event shall the Notes be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
               (s) If any Broker-Dealer shall underwrite any Notes or New Notes or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the Rules of Fair Practice and the By-Laws of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.) thereof, whether as a Holder of such Notes or New Notes or as an Underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, will assist such Broker-Dealer in complying with the requirements of such Rules and By-Laws, including, without limitation, by:
               (i) if such Rules or By-Laws shall so require, engaging a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in such Rules) to participate in the preparation of the Registration Statement, to exercise usual standards of due diligence with respect thereto and, if any portion of the offering contemplated by such Registration Statement is an underwritten offering or is made through a placement or sales agent, to recommend the yield of such Notes or New Notes;
               (ii) indemnifying any such qualified independent underwriter to the extent of the indemnification of Underwriters provided in Section 7 hereof; and
               (iii) providing such information to such Broker-Dealer as may be required in order for such Broker-Dealer to comply with the requirements of such Rules.
               (t) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Notes or the New Notes, as the case may be, covered by a Registration Statement.
          Each Holder agrees by acquisition of a Note that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section 5(c)(ii)-(v) or any Blackout Period, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Notes or New Notes pursuant to the applicable Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 5 hereof, or until it is advised in writing (the "") by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the Prospectus. If so directed by the Company in writing, each Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Notes or New Notes that was current at the time of receipt of such notice.
Advice
 
          6. . The Company shall bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 2, 3 and 5 hereof and, in the event of any Shelf Registration Statement, will reimburse the Holders for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm or counsel designated by the Majority Holders to act as counsel for the Holders in connection therewith, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders, all agency fees and commissions, underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes attributable to the sale or disposition of Notes or New Notes by a Holder.
Registration Expenses
          7. .
Indemnification and Contribution
          (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless (i) the Initial Purchasers, (ii) each Holder of Notes or New Notes, as the case may be, covered by any Registration Statement (including with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in Section 5(h) hereof, each Exchanging Dealer, but subject in all cases to the first sentence of the last paragraph of Section 5), (iii) each Person, if any, who controls (within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) any of the foregoing (any of the Persons referred to in this clause (iii) being hereinafter referred to as a ""), and (iv) the respective officers, directors, partners, employees, representatives and agents of the Initial Purchasers or the Holders (including predecessor Holders) (any person referred to in clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) may hereinafter be referred to as an ""), from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities, including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted (collectively ""), caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement, preliminary Prospectus, Prospectus, Free Writing Prospectus or any "issuer information" (as defined in Rule 433 of the Act) filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Act, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such Losses are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Indemnified Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Indemnified Holder expressly for use therein.
controlling person
Indemnified Holder
Losses
          (b) Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each controlling person and each of the Company's officers and directors to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Holder, but only with reference to such Losses that are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to a Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement, preliminary Prospectus, Prospectus, Free Writing Prospectus or any "issuer information" (as defined in Rule 433 of the Act) filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Act, or any amendment or supplement thereto. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which any such Holder may otherwise have.
 
          (c) Each of the Initial Purchasers, severally and not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each controlling person and each of the Company's officers and directors to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to the Initial Purchasers, but only with reference to such Losses that are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to the Initial Purchasers furnished to the Company in writing by the Initial Purchasers expressly for use in any Registration Statement, preliminary Prospectus, Prospectus, Free Writing Prospectus or any "issuer information" (as defined in Rule 433 of the Act) filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Act, or any amendment or supplement thereto. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Initial Purchasers may otherwise have.
          (d) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either of the three preceding paragraphs, such Person (the "") shall promptly notify the Person or Persons against whom such indemnity may be sought (each an "") in writing, and such Indemnifying Person, upon request of the Indemnified Person, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 7 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, the Indemnifying Person shall be able to participate in such proceeding and, to the extent that it so elects, jointly with any other similarly situated Indemnifying Person, to assume the defense thereof, subject to the right of the Indemnified Person to be separately represented and to direct its own defense if the named parties to any such proceeding include both the Indemnified Person and the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person has been advised by counsel that representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) such Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary or (ii) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include an Indemnifying Person and an Indemnified Person and the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that an Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for the Indemnified Holders shall be designated in writing by the Holders of the majority in aggregate principal amount of Notes and New Notes offered in the Prospectus to which the claim relates, and any such separate firm for the Company, its directors, officers and such control Persons of the Company shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its
Indemnified Person
Indemnifying Person
 
written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, such Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify any Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding.
          (e) If the indemnification provided for in the first, second and third paragraphs of this Section 7 is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any Losses referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such Losses (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Indemnifying Person on the one hand and the Indemnified Person on the other hand pursuant to the Purchase Agreement or from the offering of the Notes or New Notes pursuant to any Registration Statement that resulted in such Losses or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Indemnifying Person on the one hand and the Indemnified Person on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and any Indemnified Holder on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the Initial Placement received by the Company bear to the total net proceeds received by such Indemnified Holder from sales of Notes or New Notes giving rise to such obligations. The relative fault of the parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or such Indemnified Holder and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. Each director, officer, employee and agent of an Initial Purchaser or a Holder and each person, if any, who controls an Initial Purchaser or a Holder within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Indemnified Holder, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
          (f) Each of the Company and the Initial Purchasers agrees that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the Losses referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified
pro
rata
 
Person in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no event shall any Holder of any Notes or New Notes be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the net proceeds received by such Holder from the sale of the Note pursuant to a Registration Statement or New Note exceeds the amount of damages which such Holder would have otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
          (g) The remedies provided for in this Section 7 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any indemnified party at law or in equity.
          (h) The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section 7 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or any Person controlling any Holder or by or on behalf of the Company, its officers or directors or any other Person controlling the Company and (iii) acceptance of and payment for any of the Notes or New Notes.
          8. .
Underwritten Registrations
          (a) If any of the Notes or New Notes, as the case may be, covered by any Shelf Registration Statement is to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Managing Underwriters shall be selected by the Majority Holders and shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
          (b) No Person may participate in any underwritten offering pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement, unless such Person (i) agrees to sell such Person's Notes or New Notes, as the case may be, on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements; and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
          9. . The Company has not, as of the date hereof, entered into, nor shall it, on or after the date hereof, enter into, any agreement with respect to its Notes that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements
          10. . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the consent of the Majority Holders (or, after the consummation of any Registered Exchange Offer in accordance with Section 2 hereof, of New Notes); , , that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of the Initial
Amendments and Waivers
provided
however
 
Purchasers hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of the Representatives of the Initial Purchasers. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing proviso), a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Notes or New Notes, as the case may be, are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of Notes or New Notes, as the case may be, being sold rather than registered under such Registration Statement.
          11. . All notices and other communications (including without limitation any notices or other communications to a Holder) provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, next-day air courier or facsimile:
Notices
     (1) if to a Holder, at the most current address of such Holder set forth on the records of the registrar under the Indenture;
     (2) if to the Initial Purchasers:
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated As Representatives of the Initial Purchasers named on Schedule A attached to the Registration Rights Agreement
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 383 Madison Avenue New York, New York 10179 Attention: High Grade Syndicate Desk Facsimile No.: (212) 834-6081
          with copies (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Vinson & Elkins L.L.P. First City Tower 1001 Fannin Street, Suite 2500 Houston, Texas 77002-6760 Attention: Stephen M. Gill Facsimile No.: (713) 615-5956; and
          (3) if to the Company, at the addresses as follows:
Baker Hughes Incorporated 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100 Houston, Texas 77019 Attention: William D. Marsh Facsimile No.: (713) 439-8472
          with copies (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
Baker Hughes Incorporated 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100 Houston, Texas 77019 Attention: Will Marsh Facsimile No.: (713) 439-8472
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP 1111 Louisiana, 44 Floor Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Christine B. LaFollette Facsimile No.: (713) 236-0822
th
          All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: when delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; one Business Day after being timely delivered to a next-day air courier; and when the addressor receives facsimile confirmation, if sent by facsimile.
          The Initial Purchasers or the Company by notice to the other parties may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
          12. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including, without the need for an express assignment or any consent by the Company thereto, subsequent Holders of Notes or New Notes. The Company hereby agrees to extend the benefits of this Agreement to any Holder of Notes and the New Notes, and any such Holder may specifically enforce the provisions of this Agreement as if an original party hereto so long as such Holder complies with its obligations hereunder.
Successors
          13. . This Agreement may be executed (including by facsimile) in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
          14. . The headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
          15. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AS APPLIED TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED WHOLLY WITHIN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Applicable Law
          16. . If any one of more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
          17. . The Company hereby acknowledges that (a) the Initial Purchasers are acting as principal and not as an agent or fiduciary of the Company and (b) the Company's engagement of the Initial Purchasers in connection with the offering and the process leading up to the offering pursuant to the Purchase Agreement is as independent contractors and not in any other capacity. Furthermore, the Company agrees that it is solely responsible for making its own judgments in connection with the Initial Placement, the Registered Exchange Offer or a Shelf Registration (irrespective of whether any of the Initial Purchasers has advised or is currently advising the Company on related or other matters). The Company agrees that it will not claim that the Initial Purchasers have rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owe an agency, fiduciary or similar duty to the Company, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
No Fiduciary Duty
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this Agreement and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and you.
 
Initial Purchasers
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC Barclays Capital Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Goldman, Sachs & Co. Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc. RBS Securities Inc. UBS Securities LLC Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. Commerz Markets LLC Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. DnB NOR Markets, Inc. RBC Capital Markets, LLC Standard Chartered Bank UniCredit Capital Markets LLC U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc.
 
ANNEX A
          Each broker or dealer that receives new notes for its own account in exchange for old notes that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities must acknowledge that it will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with any offer, resale, or other transfer of the new notes issued in the exchange offer, including information with respect to any selling holder required by the Act in connection with any resale of the new notes.
          Furthermore, any broker-dealer that acquired any of its old notes directly from us:
 
ANNEX B
          Each broker-dealer that receives new notes for its own account in exchange for old notes, where such old notes were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, must acknowledge that it will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with any offer, resale or other transfer of such new notes, including information with respect to any selling holder required by the Act in connection with the resale of the new notes. We have agreed that for a period of 180 days after the effective date of the registration statement of which this prospectus is a part (or for such shorter period during which broker-dealers are required by law to deliver such prospectus), we will make this prospectus available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. See "Plan of Distribution."
 
ANNEX C
          Each broker-dealer that receives New Notes for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Notes. This prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of New Notes received in exchange for Notes where such Notes were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. We have agreed that, starting on the effective date of the registration statement of which this prospectus is a part and ending on the close of business 180-days after such date or such shorter period as will terminate when all New Notes held by Exchanging Dealers or Initial Purchasers have been sold pursuant hereto (or for such shorter period during which broker-dealers are required by law to deliver such prospectus), we will make this prospectus, as amended or supplemented, available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. In addition, until , 20 , all dealers effecting transactions in the New Notes may be required to deliver a prospectus.
            
    
          We will not receive any proceeds from any sale of New Notes by brokers-dealers. New Notes received by broker-dealers for their own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be sold from time to time in one or more transactions in the over-the-counter market, in negotiated transactions, through the writing of options on the New Notes or a combination of such methods of resale, at market prices prevailing at the time of resale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices or negotiated prices. Any such resale may be made directly to purchasers or to or through brokers or dealers who may receive compensation in the form of commissions or concessions from any such broker-dealer or the purchasers of any such New Notes. Any broker-dealer that resells New Notes that were received by it for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer and any broker or dealer that participates in a distribution of such New Notes may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act and any profit of any such resale of New Notes and any commissions or concessions received by any such Persons may be deemed to be underwriting compensation under the Act. The Letter of Transmittal states that by acknowledging that it will deliver and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
          Furthermore, any broker-dealer that acquired any of the old notes directly from us:
 
          For a period of 180-days after the effective date of the registration statement of which this prospectus is a part or such shorter period as will terminate when all New Notes held by Exchanging Dealers or Initial Purchasers have been sold pursuant hereto (or for such shorter period during which broker-dealers are required by law to deliver such prospectus), we will promptly send additional copies of this prospectus and any amendment or supplement to this prospectus to any broker-dealer that requests such documents in the Letter of Transmittal. We have agreed to pay all expenses incident to the Exchange Offer (including the expenses of one counsel for the holder of the Notes) other than commissions or concessions of any brokers or dealers and will indemnify the holders of the Notes (including any broker-dealers) against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Act.
          If applicable, add information required by Regulation S-K Items 507 or 508.
[
]
 
ANNEX D
CHECK HERE IF YOU ARE A BROKER-DEALER AND WISH TO RECEIVE 10 ADDITIONAL COPIES OF THE PROSPECTUS AND 10 COPIES OF ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO.
o
If the undersigned is not a broker-dealer, the undersigned represents that it acquired the New Notes in the ordinary course of its business, it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of New Notes and it has no arrangements or understandings with any Person to participate in a distribution of the New Notes. If the undersigned is a broker-dealer that will receive New Notes for its own account in exchange for Notes, it represents that the Notes to be exchanged for New Notes were acquired by it as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Notes; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.


