FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20110503102745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     (b) On April 28, 2011, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") announced that in accordance with the Company's established succession plan, Chad C. Deaton will transition from Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer to Executive Chairman of the Company effective January 1, 2012.
     (c) (1) On April 28, 2011, the Company also announced that Martin S. Craighead will assume the position of Chief Executive Officer in addition to his role as President of the Company effective January 1, 2012.
          (2) Mr. Craighead, age 51, has served as President since July 2010 and Chief Operating Officer since May 2009. During his career at the Company, he served as Senior Vice President of the Company, President of the Company Drilling & Evaluation Group and as President of Baker Atlas and INTEQ. He joined the Company in 1986 and has worked in engineering, operational and managerial positions throughout North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific. Mr. Craighead earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum and Natural Gas Engineering from Pennsylvania State University and a Master of Business Administration degree from Vanderbilt University.
     (e) On April 28, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company entered into a Restated and Superseding Employment Agreement with Chad C. Deaton (the "Employment Agreement") in connection with his transition from Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer to Executive Chairman, effective January 1, 2012. The Employment Agreement generally provides that starting on January 1, 2012 and continuing through January 31, 2013, subject to annual renewals thereafter, Mr. Deaton will serve as Executive Chairman of the Company. His duties will consist of chairing the Board of Directors and conducting general oversight, on behalf of the Board, of the Company's operations as carried by senior executive management, including supporting the new CEO. During Mr. Deaton's service as the Executive Chairman of the Company, the Company will pay Mr. Deaton a base salary, annualized, of $750,000 ("Base Salary"), and Mr. Deaton will be eligible to participate in the Company's Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (or any successor) with a target bonus percentage, expressed as a percentage of his Base Salary, of 120 percent, and other benefits available on the same basis as the other senior executive employees and officers. In addition to other terms with respect to his employment, Mr. Deaton's restricted stock awards, stock options and performance units currently outstanding will vest and become non-forfeitable on January 31, 2013, subject to his continued employment through January 31, 2013. As Executive Chairman he will be granted a new restricted stock unit award that provides 37,500 shares will vest on each of January 31, 2013, subject to his continued employment and the second anniversary of his termination of employment, subject to compliance with certain non-compete requirements, death or disability. Pursuant to the Employment Agreement, the existing Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between the Company and Mr. Deaton, effective January 1, 2009, and the Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement between Mr. Deaton and the Company, effective January 1, 2009, will continue in effect in all respects during Mr. Deaton's continued employment as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board through December 31, 2011 and terminate immediately thereafter. Mr. Deaton's Indemnification Agreement effective October 25, 2004, as amended effective January 1, 2009, will continue in accordance with its terms. The Employment Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
     The Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on April 28, 2011 (i) to elect eleven members of the Board of Directors to serve for one-year terms, (ii) to ratify Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year 2011, (iii) to reapprove the performance criteria for awards under the Company's Annual Incentive Compensation Plan, (iv) to vote on an advisory vote to approve the Company's executive compensation program, (v) to vote on the frequency of holding an advisory vote on the executive compensation program, and (vi) to vote on Stockholder Proposal No. 1 regarding a change in the manner in which the members of the Board of Directors are elected to require director nominees to be elected by the affirmative vote of the majority of votes cast at an annual meeting rather than the current plurality voting standard. Following are the final results of the Annual Meeting.
 
     The directors who were elected are Larry D. Brady, Clarence P. Cazalot, Jr., Chad C. Deaton, Anthony G. Fernandes, Claire W. Gargalli, Pierre H. Jungels, James A. Lash, J. Larry Nichols, H. John Riley, Jr., James W. Stewart and Charles L. Watson.
     The number of affirmative votes, the number of negative votes and the number of abstentions with respect to the ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for 2011 was as follows:
 
     The number of affirmative votes, the number of negative votes, the number of abstentions and the number of broker non-votes with respect to the reapproval of the performance criteria for awards under the Company's Annual Incentive Compensation Plan was as follows:
     The number of affirmative votes, the number of negative votes, the number of abstentions and the number of broker non-votes with respect to the advisory vote to approve the Company's executive compensation program was as follows:
     The vote of one, two or three years the number of abstentions and the number of broker non-votes with respect to the frequency of holding an advisory vote on the executive compensation program was as follows:
     The number of affirmative votes, the number of negative votes, the number of abstentions and the number of broker non-votes with respect to Stockholder Proposal No. 1 regarding the majority vote standard for director elections was as follows:
     As of March 1, 2011, the record date, there were 434,318,886 shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders. At the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on April 28, 2011, 363,315,180 shares of common stock were represented in person or by proxy, constituting a quorum. The information above reflects the number of votes cast by the holders of such common stock.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On April 28, 2011, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical information set forth in this document, the matters discussed in this document are forward-looking statements that involve certain assumptions and known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially. The words "will," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our expectations with regard to succession matters are subject to various factors and conditions. These forward-looking statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and those set forth from time to time in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The documents are available through the company's website at http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits. (Information furnished in this Item 9.01 is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01.)
          10.1  Restated and Superseding Employment Agreement between Chad C. Deaton and Baker Hughes Incorporated dated April 28, 2011.
          99.1  News Release of Baker Hughes Incorporated dated April 28, 2010.
 
SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Restated and Superseding Employment Agreement ("this Agreement"), dated as of April 28, 2011 (the "Effective Date"), is by and between Chad C. Deaton (the "Executive") and Baker Hughes Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company").
Whereas, the Company, through its Board of Directors (the "Board"), and the Executive have agreed on the timing and manner of the transition of his duties as Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of the Company; and
Whereas, the Board desires to retain the Executive's services as Executive Chairman for a time following his relinquishment of his duties as CEO, and the Executive is agreeable to serve in that capacity conditioned on the terms and conditions stated herein;
Now, therefore, in consideration of their respective promises and covenants herein contained, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Company, through its lawful and authorized representatives, and the Executive ("the Parties") hereby agree as follows:
     1.  The Executive agrees to continue to serve, and the Company agrees to continue to employ the Executive, as CEO through midnight on December 31, 2011. The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective January 1, 2009 ("2009 Agreement"), and the Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement, effective January 1, 2009 ("CIC Agreement"), between the Executive and the Company shall continue in effect in all respects during the Executive's continued employment as CEO of the Company. The Executive also will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board through December 31, 2011.
Continued Service as CEO.
     2.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the 2009 Agreement and the CIC Agreement shall terminate, and no longer have effect, as of midnight on December 31, 2011. The provisions of section 3.4 of the CIC Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and shall continue to apply to any payments or benefits provided for under this Agreement and any other plan or agreement with the Company.
Termination of Prior Agreements.
 
     3.  The Executive, pursuant to this Agreement and without further action on his part, will relinquish his duties as CEO of the Company as of midnight on December 31, 2011 and, as of 12:01 a.m. on January 1, 2012, pursuant to this Agreement and without further action on the part of the Parties, will become Executive Chairman of the Board. At that time, the terms and conditions of this Agreement with respect to the Executive's continued employment shall supersede those of the 2009 Agreement, except to the extent that provisions of the 2009 Agreement are incorporated herein.
Relinquishment of CEO Duties.
     4.  The Company agrees to employ the Executive, and the Executive accepts such employment on the terms and conditions herein set forth, as Executive Chairman commencing on January 1, 2012 and continuing through January 31, 2013; provided that on February 1, 2013, and each anniversary of February 1 thereafter, this Agreement automatically shall renew for a term of one year unless either of the Parties provides written notice on or before the preceding December 1 that the employment relationship and this Agreement shall terminate on the next January 31. The Executive's employment as Executive Chairman shall be subject to his re-election to the Board by the Company's stockholders at the Company's regular Annual Meetings.
Term of Employment as Executive Chairman.
     5.  The Executive's duties as Executive Chairman shall consist of chairing the Board and general oversight, on behalf of the Board, of Company operations as carried out by senior executive management and shall be consistent with the Parties' intention that he will devote his efforts to supporting the new CEO with regard to the execution of his responsibilities and providing a degree of continuity of senior executive management immediately following the transition of responsibilities to the new CEO. The Executive may perform such duties from any location that is convenient to him so long as performance from such location does not materially adversely affect such performance. The Parties agree that the Executive, except for the foregoing commitments to the Company, shall have the flexibility and freedom to pursue and engage in other business opportunities and activities outside the Company provided those activities do not constitute a conflict of interest with regard to his duties to the Company.
Duties.
     6.  The Executive shall continue as an executive employee and officer of the Company for the entire duration of his service as Executive Chairman, without any interruption in service as a result of his relinquishing CEO responsibilities, and shall be so treated for all purposes, including with respect to participation in compensation and benefits plans of the Company except to the extent as may be otherwise provided in this Agreement.
Continuation of Employment.
 
     7.  During his service as the Executive Chairman, the Executive shall receive the following compensation and benefits:
Compensation.
     (a) The Company shall pay the Executive a base salary, annualized, of $750,000 ("Base Salary") during the initial term of this Agreement commencing on January 1, 2012, payable in periodic amounts in accordance with its customary payroll practices for senior executive officers. The Parties may adjust the amount of the Base Salary by mutual agreement should this Agreement be renewed beyond its initial term.
     (b) The Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Company's Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (or any successor) on the same basis as other senior executive employees and officers, with a target bonus percentage, expressed as a percentage of his Base Salary, of 120 percent.
     (c) Except as provided herein, the Executive shall continue to be eligible for, and to receive, all compensation, benefits and perquisites available to senior executive employees and officers, including but not limited to all Company Supplemental Retirement Plan contributions, pension contributions and accruals, Company thrift plan contributions, and medical-related, life and disability insurance and other benefits and insurance coverages, on the same basis as other senior executive employees and officers. With regard to perquisites, payments will continue to be in accord with the Company's Executive Perquisite Program.
     (d) Subject to section 13(c) of this Agreement, the Executive's restricted stock awards and stock options existing as of December 31, 2011, to the extent not vested, will continue to vest pursuant to their terms during his service as Executive Chairman. If the Executive continues his employment with the Company until January 31, 2013, all restricted stock awards and stock options existing as of December 31, 2011, to the extent not vested as of January 31, 2013, shall vest in full on that date, and the Executive shall have a fully vested, non-forfeitable right to such stock and to exercise such stock options pursuant to their terms on and after that date.
     (e) Subject to section 13(c) of this Agreement, the Executive's performance unit awards existing as of December 31, 2011, will continue to vest and be earned in accordance with their terms during his service as Executive Chairman, subject to the achievement of the performance metrics applicable for such awards. If the Executive continues his employment with the Company until January 31, 2013, all of his performance unit awards existing as of December 31,
 
2011, to the extent not vested on January 31, 2013, shall vest in full and be fully earned, without any proration, as of January 31, 2013, subject to the achievement of the performance metrics applicable for such awards. Payments under such performance unit awards shall be made at the times specified in the applicable performance unit agreements.
     (f) For the avoidance of doubt, the Company confirms that (i) the Executive has fully nonforfeitable interests in his accrued benefits earned under the Baker Hughes Incorporated Pension Plan, the Baker Hughes Incorporated Thrift Plan and the Baker Hughes Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan (including with regard to any Company contributions, deferrals or accruals thereunder made after December 31, 2011), and (ii) upon termination of employment, the Executive will be deemed to have "retired" for purposes of exercising his stock options.
     (g) The Executive's accrued but unused vacation, as of December 31, 2011, shall be paid to him in a lump sum within 30 days following his relinquishment of the CEO duties. The Executive will not accrue or earn paid vacation as Executive Chairman.
     (h) In his capacity as Executive Chairman the Executive will not be eligible to participate in the Baker Hughes Incorporated Change in Control Severance Plan (or successor plan), an individual change in control severance agreement (not including this Agreement) or the Baker Hughes Incorporated Executive Severance Plan (or successor plan), it being understood that the sole severance benefits and amounts payable to the Executive in the event of his termination shall be those specified in this Agreement.
     (i) The only long-term incentive award that shall be granted to the Executive in his capacity as Executive Chairman shall be the award described in this section 7(i). The Company shall grant to the Executive a restricted stock unit award ("Award"). Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Award provided for in this section 7(i) shall vest with respect to 37,500 shares of the Company's Common Stock on each of January 31, 2013, and the second anniversary of the Executive's termination from employment, or fully upon the Executive's death or Section 409A Disability (as defined in the 2009 Agreement), if earlier; and the Award, to the extent unvested, shall be forfeited if the Executive's employment with the Company terminates prior to January 31, 2013 (other than by the Company without Cause, by the Executive for Good Reason, or by reason of death or Disability as defined herein) or if the Executive violates section 11 of this Agreement.
 
     8.  The Company shall provide the Executive with a suitable office at its principal offices in Houston, Texas and such administrative support as the Executive reasonably requires in connection with the performance of his duties under this Agreement, and shall promptly reimburse the Executive for expenses (including those related to travel) reasonably incurred in connection with such duties in accordance with the Company's expense reimbursement policy.
Administrative Support and Expenses.
     9.  The Company shall indemnify the Executive to the fullest extent permitted by law. The Executive will be entitled to the benefit of any insurance policies the Company maintains for the benefit of its officers and directors against all liabilities, claims, costs, charges and expenses incurred in connection with any action, suit or proceeding to which he may be made, or threatened to be made, a party, witness or other participant by reason of being a director, officer or employee of the Company. Additionally, the Indemnification Agreement effective October 25, 2004, as amended effective January 1, 2009, between the Executive and the Company shall continue in effect during the Executive's service as Executive Chairman and for such periods of time following the termination of his employment as Executive Chairman as are established in paragraph 21 (or elsewhere) of that Indemnification Agreement. Additionally, if the Company fails to administer any provision of this Agreement consistent with its terms and intent, the Company shall indemnify the Executive fully for any financial liability to the Executive resulting from such error.
Indemnification.
     10.  Upon the Executive's termination of employment with the Company after December 31, 2011, for any reason (including death) other than by the Company for Cause, the Executive, without further action on his part, shall be deemed and treated as having retired for all purposes including, but not limited to, eligibility to participate in the Company's retiree health plans and shall be deemed to have satisfied any related length of service requirements with respect to such health plans (if termination is due to the Executive's death, his surviving spouse shall be eligible to participate in such retiree health plans).
Retirement.
     11.  The Executive, following his termination of employment, shall comply with the restrictive covenants set out in section 9, sub-parts (a), (b) and (c), of the 2009 Agreement for the time period specified therein, and those provisions as well as sub-part (d) of the 2009 Agreement are incorporated into this Agreement as if fully set out herein.
Non-competition.
 
     12.  The Executive's employment as Executive Chairman shall continue until the earlier of the expiration of the term of this Agreement, including any renewed term as set forth in section 4 above, or until such employment terminates for any of the following reasons:
Termination.
     For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" means (i) the Company's failure to correct, within 30 business days of receiving written notice, a material breach of this Agreement or the assignment of duties or obligations to the Executive inconsistent with his duties as Executive Chairman or (ii) the Company's failure to comply with section 16.
     For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means the Executive's conviction of a criminal felony or failure to correct, within 30 business days of receiving written notice, a material breach of this Agreement; and in either instance, termination for Cause by the Company is to be effected by adoption of a written resolution of the Board, by no less than a two-thirds majority of its entire membership, finding the existence of "Cause" and terminating the employment relationship.
     13.  The Company shall be responsible for the following payments to the Executive upon a termination of the Executive's employment with the Company (other than one resulting from the expiration of the term, or a renewed term, of this Agreement).
Payments Upon Termination.
     (a) In the event of termination of the Executive's employment with the Company due to death or Disability, the Executive (or his beneficiary, heir or estate) shall receive those payments specified in section 8(b) of the 2009 Agreement at those times therein specified.
 
     (b) In the event of termination of employment for Cause, the Executive shall receive those payments specified in section 8(c) of the 2009 Agreement at those times therein specified.
     (c) In the event of termination of employment by the Executive for Good Reason or by the Company without Cause (including as a consequence of the failure of the stockholders to re-elect the Executive to the Board), the Executive shall receive those payments and benefits specified in section 8(e) of the 2009 Agreement, but without any proration as provided therein, and paid as provided at those times therein specified, except that (i) in lieu of the amount specified in section 8(e)(i)(C), the Executive shall receive (at the time specified in section 8(e) of the 2009 Agreement) an amount equal to his aggregate Base Salary that otherwise would be payable through the end of the then current term of this Agreement, (ii) section 8(e) shall be applied as if the term "Highest Bonus Amount" means an amount equal to the greater of $900,000 or the average of the annual bonuses paid to the Executive in his capacity as Executive Chairman, and (iii) in addition to the payments and benefits provided above in this section 13(c), all restricted stock awards of the Executive existing on the date of his termination of employment shall vest in full, to the extent not then vested, and be payable to the Executive on such date of termination; all stock options of the Executive existing on such date of termination shall vest in full on such date, to the extent not then vested, and shall be exercisable pursuant to their terms on and after such date; and all performance unit awards of the Executive existing on such date of termination shall be vested and earned in full on such date, without any proration, subject to the achievement of the performance metrics applicable for such awards, and payments under such performance unit awards shall be made at the times specified in the applicable performance unit agreements.
     (d) In the event of termination of employment by the Executive without Good Reason, the Executive shall receive those payments specified in section 8(d) of the 2009 Agreement at those times therein specified.
     For the avoidance of doubt, for purposes of this section 13 all references in the 2009 Agreement to "Base Salary" shall be deemed to be references to the Executive's Base Salary in effect under section 7(a) of this Agreement.
     14.  It is intended that this Agreement shall comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). The provisions of this Agreement shall be interpreted and administered by the Company in a manner that complies with Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, if any payment
Section 409A Compliance.
 
provided for in this Agreement would be subject to additional taxes and interest under Section 409A of the Code if the Executive's receipt of such payment is not delayed as provided in Section 409A(a)(2)(B) of the Code, then such payment shall not be made to the Executive until the earlier of (a) the date of the Executive's death or (b) the date that is six months after the date of the Executive's "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) with the Company. Any such delayed payments shall be paid in a lump sum without interest.
     15.  The Parties adopt by reference the Dispute Resolution provisions of section 14 of the 2009 Agreement.
Dispute Resolution.
     16.  The Company will require that any successor agree to adopt and comply in all respects with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
Successors.
     17.  No amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless reduced to writing and signed by both Parties.
Amendments and Waiver.
     18.  This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the Parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, whether they be written or oral, except as otherwise expressly stated herein. The Executive's participation, compensation and benefits under the Company's employee benefit plans and compensation arrangements shall remain subject to the terms of such plans and compensation arrangements, except to the extent otherwise provided in this Agreement, and as they may be modified from time to time by the Company; provided that no modification to any such plan or arrangement shall adversely impact the Executive unless the modification is generally applicable to senior executive employees and officers of the Company, and in no event shall any such modification adversely affect any right or benefit of the Executive provided for in this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
     19.  Notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States certified mail or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows to the respective party:
Notice.
 
Mr. Chad C. Deaton 13914 I. O. Court Willis, Texas 77318
Baker Hughes Incorporated 2929 Allen Parkway, Suite 2100 Houston, Texas 70019 Attention: General Counsel
or to such other address as either Party may have furnished the other in writing in accordance with this provision, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
     20.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas without regard to conflicts of law principles.
Governing Law.
     21.  This Agreement shall become effective as of the Effective Date upon approval of the Board following its execution. The Board shall provide to the Executive a certified copy of the written resolution of approval as soon as practicable.
Effectiveness.
     , the Parties have executed this Agreement effective for all purposes as of the Effective Date.
In witness whereof

Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes Announces CEO Succession Plan
HOUSTON, Texas  April 28, 2011. Baker Hughes Incorporated (NYSE: BHI) held its annual stockholders meeting this morning in Houston, Texas. At its regularly scheduled Board of Directors meeting following the annual meeting, the Board, acting in accordance with its established succession plan, approved the transition of Chad C. Deaton, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, to the new role of Executive Chairman beginning January 1, 2012. At that time Martin S. Craighead will assume the position of Chief Executive Officer in addition to his role as President of Baker Hughes.
Mr. Deaton said, "In October 2011, I will have served seven years as the leader of Baker Hughes. We have accomplished the major objectives I had when I joined the company in the fall of 2004 and I am very proud to have shared this success with our outstanding employees, management team and Board of Directors. We have expanded and refocused the company, building its competitive strengths while maintaining financial discipline and improving our returns. We have established a strong culture based on our Core Values of Integrity, Performance, Learning and Teamwork.
"I have tremendous respect for Martin's abilities and confidence in his leadership. As an experienced operations executive, Martin has an exceptional background for the CEO role. He has been with the company for over 25 years, including management roles in both the United States and other countries. He is one of the veterans of the company's management team who has effectively mobilized our people and technology into a new geographic alignment as a leading global supplier of oilfield services."
H. John Riley, Lead Director of the company's Board of Directors, said that "The entire board is extremely appreciative of Chad Deaton's outstanding leadership and significant contributions to the success of Baker Hughes over the past several years. He has implemented a strategy for growth and improved performance that has reenergized and broadened the horizons for the company. We look forward to Chad's active involvement in his new role as Executive Chairman.
 
Page 2
Baker Hughes Incorporated News Release
Baker Hughes Announces CEO Succession Plan
"The Board joins me in congratulating Martin for earning the opportunity to lead Baker Hughes in the future as the company continues its growth as a leader in our industry. Baker Hughes is extremely well positioned for the future."
Biographical Information
Martin Craighead, 51, has been with the company since 1986 serving as President since 2010 and Chief Operating Officer since 2009, Senior Vice President from 2009 to 2010, Group Vice President of Drilling and Evaluation beginning in 2007, Vice President of the company from 2005 until 2009, and in various officer positions with numerous Baker Hughes subsidiaries as well as leadership roles in a wide variety of product lines both in the US and foreign countries.
Forward Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release), contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "forwardlooking statement"). The words "will," and similar expressions are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. Our expectations with regard to succession matters are subject to various factors and conditions. These forward-looking statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and those set forth from time to time in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The documents are available through the company's website at or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at . We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.
http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor
http://www.sec.gov


