FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20110725070048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 25, 2011, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") issued a news release announcing its financial results for the quarter ending June 30, 2011, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     Following the issuance of the news release and the filing of this current report on Form 8-K, the Company will hold a conference call on Monday, July 25 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time, 7:30 a.m. central time, to discuss the earnings announcement. This scheduled conference call was previously announced on June 20, 2011. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at (800) 374-2469, or (706) 634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay will be available through Monday, August 8, 2011. The number for the replay is (800) 642-1687, or (706) 645-9291 for international callers, and the access code is 77447493. The conference call will be webcast simultaneously at on a listen-only basis. The call and replay will also available on our website at .
http://investor.shareholder.com/bhi/events.cfm
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
     In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") that were included in the news release, certain information discussed in the news release and to be discussed on the conference call could be considered non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G). Any non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, or superior to, net income (loss), income (loss) from continuing operations, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. Reconciliations of such non-GAAP information to the closest GAAP measures are included in the news release and can be found on the Company's website at www.bakerhughes.com/investor in the Financial Information section under the heading "Impact of Non-Operational Items" and in the applicable earnings releases under the "Earnings Releases" heading.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On July 25, 2011, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     Also, see Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
Table of Contents
(Information furnished in this Item 9.01 is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01.)
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
          99.1*  News Release of Baker Hughes Incorporated dated July 25, 2011.
 
* Filed herewith.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes Announces Second Quarter Results
HOUSTON, Texas  July 25, 2011. Baker Hughes Incorporated (NYSE: BHI) today announced net income for the second quarter 2011 of $408 million, or $0.93 per diluted share, which excludes expenses of $70 million, before and after-tax ($0.16 per diluted share) associated with increasing the allowance for doubtful accounts and reserves for inventory and certain other assets in Libya. Including these expenses, net income attributable to Baker Hughes, a GAAP measure, for the second quarter 2011 was $338 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, compared to $93 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, for the second quarter 2010 and $381 million, or $0.87 per diluted share, for the first quarter 2011.
Revenue for the second quarter 2011 was $4.74 billion, up 41% compared to $3.37 billion for the second quarter 2010 and up 5% compared to $4.53 billion for the first quarter 2011.
Results presented for the second quarter of 2010 included the results of BJ Services from the date of acquisition on April 28, 2010.
Chad C. Deaton, Baker Hughes chairman and chief executive officer, said, "Our performance was solid this quarter with steady improvement of our international profit margin. As expected, the sequential profit improvement in US Land and the Gulf of Mexico nearly offset the seasonal decline in Canada.
"International profit before tax margin now exceeds 13 percent, excluding the Libya charge, up more than 120 basis points sequentially and up 675 basis points year over year. The largest sequential improvement was in the Europe, Africa, Russia/Caspian segment.
"In North America, US Land revenue increased sequentially at a rate more than double that of the rig count, with strong incremental margins as the service intensity of the unconventional oil and gas plays continued to increase. Furthermore, demand for pressure pumping exceeds industry supply in North America. Gulf of Mexico revenue and profit increased modestly as new permits allowed only a limited resumption of deepwater activity.
Looking forward, we continue to see improvement in North America driven by increased activity in unconventional oil and gas plays and increased service intensity driving opportunities for advanced directional drilling, complex multi-stage completions and pressure pumping. The Canada rig count has already rebounded from second quarter lows and we are mobilizing for the normal seasonal increase in activities going forward. Our continued investment in products
 
and services for the unconventional resource plays supports the long-term strength of the North American market. While the increase in deepwater activity makes us optimistic, the pace of permits being issued has slowed significantly. In addition, we expect to incur incremental expenses associated with the increase in deepwater Gulf of Mexico regulation in the second half of 2011.
"Globally, spare oil production capacity is tight and we expect growing demand in China, India, developing Asia and the Middle East to support high oil prices and sustain increases in international spending. Activity is expected to increase in the second half of 2011 and into 2012 led by steady improvement in Brazil and the Middle East. If activity increases as we anticipate for 2012, conditions should support pricing improvements."
Debt decreased by $233 million to $3.61 billion and cash and short-term investments decreased by $458 million to $937 million compared to the first quarter 2011. Capital expenditures were $594 million, depreciation and amortization expense was $331 million, and dividend payments were $65 million in the second quarter 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter 2011 was $1.02 billion, up $63 million sequentially. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure that excludes certain identified items, such as the Libya charge in the second quarter 2011. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income is provided in Table 1. In addition to reported results, we are also providing "Supplemental Financial Information" in Table 3 for revenue and adjusted operating profit before tax (a non-GAAP measure) for the second quarter 2010. This information presents pro forma combined revenue and adjusted operating profit before tax, including estimates for depreciation and amortization expense associated with the acquisition of BJ Services in April 2010.
 
Financial Information Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations
(Unaudited)
 
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations
(Unaudited)
 
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
 
Consolidated Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
(Unaudited)
 
Table 1: Calculation of EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP measures)
1
 
Table 2: Segment Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Margin
1
 
Table 3: Supplemental Financial Information (Pro Forma Combined Basis)
1
excluding certain expenses related to Libya
2
The following table contains non-GAAP measures of segment revenue, operating profit before tax, and operating profit before tax margin. Management uses this information to perform meaningful comparisons between quarters and believes that this information may be useful to investors. Supplemental financial information for the first quarter 2008 through the second quarter 2011 can be found on our website at www.bakerhughes.com/investor in the Financial Information section.
3
3
 
Operational Highlights
North America
Baker Hughes advanced technologies including AutoTrakCurve, FracPoint multi-stage fracturing system with In-Tallic disintegrating frac balls and extended stage FracPoint systems continue to gain traction in customer applications. These technologies will contribute to our ability to substantially differentiate from our competition.
In the emerging Niobrara play, we were awarded a one-year contract to supply directional drilling, drilling fluids, cementing, open hole and cased hole wireline, micro-seismic and pressure pumping services for a major International Oil Company ("IOC").
We were awarded two substantial integrated service contracts for large independent operators in the Permian Basin, where we have a particularly large pressure pumping presence. The product lines awarded include Pressure Pumping, Completion Systems, Bits, Production Chemicals and Wireline Services.
In the Bakken, a new customer chose FracPoint to perform a 40-stage fracturing program, and has awarded all services, including pressure pumping, directional drilling and completion tools on the rig to Baker Hughes. To date, six of these systems have been deployed for this customer.
In the Gulf of Mexico, we expanded our presence in the ultra-deep gas Shelf market with a multi-million dollar award from an IOC to provide drilling fluids and evaluation on a High Temperature High Pressure exploratory program.
Latin America
Baker Hughes was recently awarded a three-year contract to provide drilling systems, bits and completions for three deep wells in the Hurn block in Colombia. Also in Colombia, a customer awarded us a one-year integrated project in the Llanos Basin on seven wells to perform drilling, completions and pumping operations.
In Brazil, activity was strong as we completed the first six wells of a 37-well campaign in a heavy oil field in the Campos Basin. In what is currently the biggest development program by an international operator in Brazil, Baker Hughes was contracted for a number of services, including drilling and evaluation, drill bit systems, completion systems, ESP systems and gravel pumping services. The first four wells are already on production.
In Argentina, Baker Hughes performed its first hydraulic fracturing stimulation job in an unconventional hydrocarbon shale reservoir. The multistage fracturing operation for YPF in the Neuqun Basin was successful.
 
Baker Hughes was the preferred provider of electric submersible pump equipment and services for a 200 well field in the South and Tarapoa Blocks in Ecuador. This award solidifies our place as the preferred provider for artificial lift in these fields that we have enjoyed for the last ten years.
Europe/Africa/Russia/Caspian
In Nigeria, we installed our first permanent downhole fiber optic gauge in Africa allowing real time production monitoring to facilitate production from a gas reservoir.
In Gabon, Baker Hughes was awarded an offshore completions contract by a major oil company. The package consisted of injector well completions with our innovative Dual Flow Head system which allows simultaneous injection into an upper and lower zone, and full downhole gauge systems, chemical injection mandrels, gas lift, production packers and flow control devices.
In Russia, a major National Oil Company ("NOC") awarded us with a 310 electrical submersible pump systems lease contract, replacing a competitor. We achieved this based on our strong technology offering in artificial lift and the service capability of recently acquired Oil Pump Services company.
In Continental Europe, we secured a sand control contract to provide completions fluids, pressure pumping and tools to an IOC in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Middle East/Asia Pacific
In China's Shengli oilfield we performed a multi-stage FracPoint completion on a horizontal well.
In India, we launched a BEACON Real-Time Operations Center that will provide geomechanical and drilling optimization support for three deep water rigs operated by a NOC where Baker Hughes provides integrated services.
Conference Call
The company has scheduled a conference call to discuss the results reported in today's earnings announcement. The call will begin at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time, 7:30 a.m. Central time, on Monday July 25, 2011, the content of which is not part of this earnings release. A slide presentation providing summary financial and statistical information that will be discussed on the conference call will also be posted to the company's website and available for real-time viewing. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at (800) 374-2469, or (706) 634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay will be available through
 
Monday August 8, 2011. The number for the replay is (800) 642-1687, or (706) 645-9291 for international callers, and the access code is 77447493. The conference call will be webcast simultaneously at http://investor.shareholder.com/bhi/events.cfm on a listen-only basis. The call and replay will also be available on our website at www.bakerhughes.com/investor.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release, including on the conference call announced herein) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "forwardlooking statement"). The words "anticipate," "believe," "ensure," "expect," "if," "intend," "estimate," "project," "forecasts," "predict," "outlook," "aim," "will," "could," "should," "potential," "would," "may," "probable," "likely," and similar expressions, and the negative thereof, are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and those set forth from time to time in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The documents are available through the company's website at http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.
Our expectations regarding our business outlook and business plans; the business plans of our customers; the integration of BJ Services; oil and natural gas market conditions; cost and availability of resources; economic, legal and regulatory conditions and other matters are only our forecasts regarding these matters.
These forward looking statements, including forecasts, may be substantially different from actual results, which are affected by many risks including the following risk factors and the timing of any of these risk factors:
Baker Hughes-BJ Services acquisition  the inability to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition, including financial and operating results; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be realized or take longer to realize than expected; the ability to successfully integrate the businesses; and with respect to the historical financial information for BJ Services disclosed or utilized in this news release: the estimates, pro forma calculations and quarterly results have not been audited and actual results may differ materially, no assurance can be given that these results were realized or can be considered predictive of actual or future results, and that we do not intend to update or otherwise revise these estimates.
Economic conditions  the impact of worldwide economic conditions; the effect that declines in credit availability may have on worldwide economic growth and demand for hydrocarbons; the
 
ability of our customers to finance their exploration and development plans; and foreign currency exchange fluctuations and changes in the capital markets in locations where we operate.
Oil and gas market conditions  the level of petroleum industry exploration, development and production expenditures; the price of, volatility in pricing of, and the demand for crude oil and natural gas; drilling activity; the impact of recovery from the now lifted US Gulf of Mexico drilling moratorium; the timing for new drilling permits both on the shelf and in the deepwater; and changes in the regulation of drilling in the US Gulf of Mexico or other areas as well as higher operating costs; excess productive capacity; crude and product inventories; LNG supply and demand; seasonal and other adverse weather conditions that affect the demand for energy; severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, that affect exploration and production activities; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") policy and the adherence by OPEC nations to their OPEC production quotas.
Terrorism and geopolitical risks  war, military action, terrorist activities or extended periods of international conflict, particularly involving any petroleumproducing or consuming regions; labor disruptions, civil unrest or security conditions where we operate; expropriation of assets by governmental action.
Price, market share, contract terms, and customer payments  our ability to obtain market prices for our products and services; the effect of the level and sources of our profitability on our tax rate; the ability of our competitors to capture market share; our ability to retain or increase our market share; changes in our strategic direction; the effect of industry capacity relative to demand for the markets in which we participate; our ability to negotiate acceptable terms and conditions with our customers, especially national oil companies, to successfully execute these contracts, and receive payment in accordance with the terms of our contracts with our customers; our ability to manage warranty claims and improve performance and quality; our ability to effectively manage our commercial agents.
Costs and availability of resources  our ability to manage the costs and availability of sufficient raw materials and components (especially steel alloys, chromium, copper, carbide, lead, nickel, titanium, beryllium, barite, synthetic and natural diamonds, sand, chemicals, and electronic components); our ability to manage energy-related costs; our ability to manage compliance-related costs; our ability to recruit, train and retain the skilled and diverse workforce necessary to meet our business needs and manage the associated costs; the effect of manufacturing and subcontracting performance and capacity, including forecasted costs to meet our revenue goal; the availability of essential electronic components used in our products; the effect of competition, particularly our ability to introduce new technology on a forecasted schedule and at forecasted costs; potential impairment of long-lived assets; the accuracy of our estimates regarding our capital spending requirements; unanticipated changes in the levels of our capital expenditures; the need to replace any unanticipated losses in capital assets; labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations; our ability to maintain information security.
 
Litigation and changes in laws or regulatory conditions  the potential for unexpected litigation or proceedings and our ability to obtain adequate insurance on commercially reasonable terms; the legislative, regulatory and business environment in the US and other countries in which we operate; outcome of government and legal proceedings as well as costs arising from compliance and ongoing or additional investigations in any of the countries where the company does business; new laws, regulations and policies that could have a significant impact on the future operations and conduct of all businesses; restrictions on hydraulic fracturing; any restrictions on new or ongoing offshore drilling; permit and operational delays or program reductions as a result of the new regulations and recovery from the drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico; changes in export control laws or exchange control laws; restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions; customs clearance procedures; changes in accounting standards; changes in tax laws or tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities; and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carry forwards and tax credits.
Environmental matters  unexpected, adverse outcomes or material increases in liability with respect to environmental remediation sites where we have been named as a potentially responsible party; the discovery of new environmental remediation sites; changes in environmental regulations; the discharge of hazardous materials or hydrocarbons into the environment.
Baker Hughes provides reservoir development services, drilling, pressure pumping, formation evaluation, completion and production products and services to the worldwide oil and gas industry.


