FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20120124060630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 24, 2012, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the "Company") issued a news release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter 2011 and year ending December 31, 2011, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Following the issuance of the news release and the filing of this current report on Form 8-K, the Company will hold a conference call on Tuesday, January 24 at 8:30 a.m. eastern time, 7:30 a.m. central time, to discuss the earnings announcement. This scheduled conference call was previously announced on November 22, 2011. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at (800) 374-2469, or (706) 634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay will be available through Tuesday, February 7, 2012. The number for the replay is (855) 859-2056, or (404) 537-3406 for international callers, and the access code is 29422162. The conference call will be webcast simultaneously at on a listen-only basis. The call and replay will also be available on our website at .
http://investor.shareholder.com/bhi/events.cfm
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") that were included in the news release, certain information discussed in the news release and to be discussed on the conference call could be considered non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SEC's Regulation G). Any non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, or superior to, net income (loss), income (loss) from continuing operations, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. Reconciliations of such non-GAAP information to the closest GAAP measures are included in the news release and can be found on the Company's website at www.bakerhughes.com/investor in the Financial Information section under the heading "Impact of Non-Operational Items" and in the applicable earnings releases under the "Earnings Releases" heading.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 24, 2012, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Also, see Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
 
(Information furnished in this Item 9.01 is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01.)
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HOUSTON, TEXAS (Jan. 24, 2012)  Baker Hughes Incorporated (NYSE: BHI) today announced adjusted net income (a non-GAAP measure) for the fourth quarter 2011 of $534 million, or $1.22 per diluted share. This excludes an after-tax charge of $220 million ($0.50 per diluted share) related to the impairment of certain trade names. This compares to $0.77 per diluted share for the fourth quarter 2010, and to adjusted net income of $1.18 per diluted share for the third quarter 2011.
Adjusted net income for the year 2011 was $1.84 billion or $4.20 per diluted share, compared to $2.06 per diluted share for the year 2010.
Net income attributable to Baker Hughes (a GAAP measure) for the fourth quarter 2011 was $314 million or $0.72 per diluted share, compared to $0.77 per diluted share for the fourth quarter 2010, and $1.61 per diluted share for the third quarter 2011. Net income attributable to Baker Hughes for the year 2011 was $1.74 billion or $3.97 per diluted share, compared to $2.06 per diluted share for the year 2010. Please see Table 1 for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures.
Revenue for the fourth quarter 2011 was $5.39 billion, up 22% compared to $4.42 billion for the fourth quarter 2010 and up 4% compared to $5.18 billion for the third quarter 2011. Revenue for the year 2011 was $19.83 billion, up 38% compared to $14.41 billion for the year 2010.
Martin Craighead, Baker Hughes President and Chief Executive Officer, said: "We are pleased with our international margins of 16% in the fourth quarter (excluding the impairment of certain trade names), with contributions across all regions. Our business continues to improve and we benefited from increased activity, a favorable product mix as well as typical seasonal product sales. For 2012, we expect international growth to continue, particularly in the Latin America, Middle East, and deepwater markets.
 
 
"In North America, the fundamentals of the business continue to be robust driven by activity growth in the unconventional basins. The geology and economics in the liquids-rich shale plays will support substantial additional drilling, and we have every reason to be confident about the long-term prospects of this market. Our Drilling and Evaluation and Completion and Production groups showed steady improvement, except for Pressure Pumping.
"The issues in Pressure Pumping were related to the availability, cost and transportation of materials, such as sand and gel. Further, as we increased headcount and added capacity to address the growing market needs, we were not able to sufficiently utilize these resources. We are resolving these issues and expect to see improvement in the second half of the year.
"Finally, I would like to thank Chad Deaton for his contribution to Baker Hughes during the past seven years. Many of the initiatives we've put in place during this time frame have been critical to ensuring our success in the market going forward. Baker Hughes has a talented workforce that is constantly focused on innovating and finding solutions. As CEO I will ensure that our 57,000 employees are relentlessly focused on delivering reliable products and services so Baker Hughes is the service company that best anticipates our customers' needs and exceeds their expectations."
Debt increased by $169 million to $4.07 billion compared to the third quarter 2011. Cash and short-term investments increased by $247 million to $1.05 billion compared to the third quarter 2011. Capital expenditures were $810 million, depreciation and amortization expense was $343 million, and dividend payments were $66 million in the fourth quarter 2011.
For the year, capital expenditures were $2.46 billion, depreciation and amortization expense was $1.32 billion and dividend payments were $261 million.
Adjusted EBITDA (a non-GAAP measure) in the fourth quarter 2011 was $1.18 billion, up $35 million sequentially. For the full year, Adjusted EBITDA was $4.3 billion. A reconciliation of net income attributable to Baker Hughes to Adjusted EBITDA is provided in Table 2. Supplemental financial information for revenue and adjusted operating profit before tax (a non-GAAP measure) is provided in Tables 5a and 5b.
 
 
 
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Financial Information
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Measures
1
The following tables reconcile net income attributable to Baker Hughes, which is the directly comparable financial result determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), to adjusted net income, which excludes certain identified items (a non-GAAP financial measure) referenced in this news release. There were no identified items requiring adjustment for any quarter in 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Calculation of EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP measures)
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3a: Segment Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Margin
1
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3b: Segment Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Margin,
1
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Charges for Impairment of Trade Names and Expenses Related to Libya by Segment
1
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5a: Supplemental Financial Information Excluding Certain Identified Items
The following table contains non-GAAP measures of operating profit before tax and operating profit before tax margin excluding charges for the impairment of certain trade names and expenses related to Libya as a result of civil unrest (see Table 4). Management uses this measure to isolate the results of certain operations and believes that this information may be useful to investors.
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5b: Supplemental Financial Information Excluding Certain Identified Items (Pro Forma Combined Basis)
1
The following table contains non-GAAP measures of operating profit before tax and operating profit before tax margin excluding charges for the impairment of certain trade names and expenses related to Libya as a result of civil unrest (see Table 4). Management uses this measure to isolate the results of certain operations and believes that this information may be useful to investors.
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Highlights
North America
Baker Hughes is the first integrated oilfield service company to receive full accreditation from the International Association of Drilling Contractors for our efforts around competency management.
In the Gulf of Mexico, oil production began from the world's deepest water depth sub-sea wells using an an innovative subsea separation and boosting system. This system includes five specially designed Centrilift XP enhanced run life ESPs embedded in the seafloor. The technology resulted from years of joint research with the client to design reliable seabed boosting systems capable of handling the production challenges in ultra-deepwater fields.
Baker Hughes also completed the installation of the world's first deepwater, fixed-fiber integration into the sand face completion. This will help to monitor the wellbore conditions to extend the life of the well.
In Canada, a customer reached final total depth two days quicker by using our Reservoir Navigation Service, AziTrak resistivity tool and AutoTrak rotary steerable system with a QD406FX bit. With the combination of these tools and real-time data with Baker Hughes' WellLink RT, the customer was able to drill not only timely, but accurately within the desired zone.
In the US, Baker Hughes was awarded a number of significant multi-service contracts, including one in the Eagleford for multiple Baker Hughes product lines. Another award was a multi-year contract of significant value in the Wattenberg field in the Niobrara basin, putting us in one of the largest finds in the basin to date.
Latin America
Throughout Latin America, new customers are relying on Baker Hughes to provide Artificial Lift solutions and maximize well performance. Baker Hughes has received multiple contract extensions in Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Ecuador and Colombia.
In Brazil, Baker Hughes began drilling the first horizontal well in the pre-salt. The base of the salt section has been reached, and performance targets are proceeding as planned. Baker Hughes also successfully performed the longest horizontal open hole gravel pack in Brazil. Additionally, Baker Hughes was able to help a key Brazilian customer map and measure a reservoir that could not be viewed by traditional seismic equipment, using our DeepTrak deep-reading resistivity logging-while-drilling tool.
Baker Hughes' work in the Corralillo field labs continues in Mexico and the company was instrumental in helping PEMEX accomplish a substantial production increase.
 
 
 
Middle East/Asia Pacific
Our Reservoir Development Services group is active throughout the Middle East region, with an array of geomechanics consultancy contract wins in Oman, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Abu Dhabi.
In Asia Pacific, we completed the first Integrated Operations bundled-services project for an independent on two exploration wells in Malaysia.
In China, the first bundled shale-oil horizontal well service project was completed for a National Oil Company utilizing drill bits, rotary steerable directional drilling and completion tools.
Europe/Africa/Russia Caspian
In Norway, the Kymera hybrid drill-bit technology combined with the AutoTrak rotary steerable system drilled three times further and more than 2.5 times faster than a conventional PDC in a hard formation. The operator saved more than 40 drilling hours.
Baker Hughes was awarded a long-term contract with a super-major to provide Coiled Tubing and stimulation work in the Netherlands and UK.
In Africa, Baker Hughes was awarded a group of contracts in South Africa covering Drilling, Fluids, Completions and Cementing for an offshore development program.
Baker Hughes was awarded two multi-service contracts on two rigs for Maersk Oil offshore Angola. The award includes Drilling Systems, Wireline, Cementing, Liner Hangers, Drill Bits and Coring Services. In addition, Baker Hughes provided all Drilling Systems, Wireline, Liner Hanger, Coring and Drill Bits for the appraisal and development wells in block 16.
Supplemental Financial Information
Supplemental financial information for the first quarter 2008 through the fourth quarter 2011 can be found on our website at in the Financial Information section.
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
Conference Call
The company has scheduled a conference call to discuss the results reported in today's earnings announcement. The call will begin at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time, 7:30 a.m. Central time, on Tuesday January 24, 2012, the content of which is not part of this earnings release. A slide presentation providing summary financial and statistical information that will be discussed on the conference call will also be posted to the company's website and available for real-time viewing. To access the call, please call the conference call operator at 800-374-2469, or 706-634-7270 for
 
 
 
international calls, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time and ask for the "Baker Hughes Conference Call." A replay of the call will be available through Tuesday, February 7, 2012. The number for the replay is 855-859-2056 in the United States, or 404-537-3406 for international calls, and the access code is 29422162. To access the webcast, go to http://investor.shareholder.com/bhi/events.cfm.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release, including on the conference call announced herein) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "forwardlooking statement"). The words "anticipate," "believe," "ensure," "expect," "if," "intend," "estimate," "project," "forecasts," "predict," "outlook," "aim," "will," "could," "should," "potential," "would," "may," "probable," "likely," and similar expressions, and the negative thereof, are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2010 and those set forth from time to time in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The documents are available through the company's website at http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at http://www.sec.gov. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.
Our expectations regarding our business outlook and business plans; the business plans of our customers; oil and natural gas market conditions; cost and availability of resources; economic, legal and regulatory conditions and other matters are only our forecasts regarding these matters.
These forward looking statements, including forecasts, may be substantially different from actual results, which are affected by many risks including the following risk factors and the timing of any of these risk factors:
Economic conditions  the impact of worldwide economic conditions and sovereign debt crises in Europe; the effect that declines in credit availability may have on worldwide economic growth and demand for hydrocarbons; the ability of our customers to finance their exploration and development plans; and foreign currency exchange fluctuations and changes in the capital markets in locations where we operate.
Oil and gas market conditions  the level of petroleum industry exploration, development and production expenditures; the price of, volatility in pricing of, and the demand for crude oil and natural gas; drilling activity; the timing for new drilling permits both on the shelf and in the deepwater; and changes in the regulation of drilling in the US Gulf of Mexico or other areas as well as higher operating costs; excess productive capacity; crude and product inventories; LNG supply and demand; seasonal and other adverse weather conditions that affect the demand for
 
 
 
energy; severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, that affect exploration and production activities; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") policy and the adherence by OPEC nations to their OPEC production quotas.
Terrorism and geopolitical risks  war, military action, terrorist activities or extended periods of international conflict, particularly involving any petroleumproducing or consuming regions; labor disruptions, civil unrest or security conditions where we operate; expropriation of assets by governmental action; cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks.
Price, market share, contract terms, and customer payments  our ability to obtain market prices for our products and services; the effect of the level and sources of our profitability on our tax rate; the ability of our competitors to capture market share; our ability to retain or increase our market share; changes in our strategic direction; the effect of industry capacity relative to demand for the markets in which we participate; our ability to negotiate acceptable terms and conditions with our customers, especially national oil companies, to successfully execute these contracts, and receive payment in accordance with the terms of our contracts with our customers; our ability to manage warranty claims and improve performance and quality; our ability to effectively manage our commercial agents.
Costs and availability of resources  our ability to manage the costs and availability of sufficient raw materials and components (especially steel alloys, chromium, copper, carbide, lead, nickel, titanium, beryllium, barite, synthetic and natural diamonds, sand, gel, chemicals, and electronic components); our ability to manage energy-related costs; our ability to manage compliance-related costs; our ability to recruit, train and retain the skilled and diverse workforce necessary to meet our business needs and manage the associated costs; the effect of manufacturing and subcontracting performance and capacity; the availability of essential electronic components used in our products; the effect of competition, particularly our ability to introduce new technology on a forecasted schedule and at forecasted costs; potential impairment of long-lived assets; the accuracy of our estimates regarding our capital spending requirements; unanticipated changes in the levels of our capital expenditures; the need to replace any unanticipated losses in capital assets; labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations; our ability to maintain information security.
Litigation and changes in laws or regulatory conditions  the potential for unexpected litigation or proceedings and our ability to obtain adequate insurance on commercially reasonable terms; the legislative, regulatory and business environment in the US and other countries in which we operate; outcome of government and legal proceedings as well as costs arising from compliance and ongoing or additional investigations in any of the countries where the company does business; new laws, regulations and policies that could have a significant impact on the future operations and conduct of all businesses; laws, regulations or restrictions on hydraulic fracturing; any restrictions on new or ongoing offshore drilling or permit and operational delays or program reductions as a result of the new regulations in the Gulf of Mexico and other areas of the world; changes in export control laws or exchange control laws; the discovery of new environmental remediation sites; changes in environmental regulations; the discharge of hazardous materials or hydrocarbons into the environment; restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions; customs clearance procedures; changes in accounting standards; changes in tax laws
 
 
 
or tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities; and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carry forwards and tax credits.
Baker Hughes is a leading supplier of oilfield services, products, technology and systems to the worldwide oil and natural gas industry. The company's 57,000-plus employees today work in more than 80 countries helping customers find, evaluate, drill, produce, transport and process hydrocarbon resources. For more information on Baker Hughes' century-long history, visit
www.bakerhughes.com.
 


