FILE:BHI/BHI-8K-20121019063023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 19, 2012
 
Baker Hughes Incorporated
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (713) 439-8600
(former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 19, 2012, Baker Hughes Incorporated (the Company) issued a news release announcing its financial results for the quarter ending September, 30, 2012, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Following the issuance of the news release and the filing of this current report on Form 8-K, the Company will hold a conference call on Friday, October 19 at 8:00 a.m. EDT, 7:00 a.m. CDT, to discuss the earnings announcement. This scheduled conference call was previously announced on August 13, 2012. To access the call, which is open to the public, please contact the conference call operator at (800) 374-2469, or (706) 634-7270 for international callers, 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time, and ask for the Baker Hughes Conference Call. A replay will be available through Friday, November 2, 2012. The number for the replay is (800) 585-8367, or (404) 537-3406 for international callers, and the access code is 59811229. The conference call and replay will also be available on our website at
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
on a listen-only basis.
In addition to financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that were included in the news release, certain information discussed in the news release and to be discussed on the conference call could be considered non-GAAP financial measures (as defined under the SECs Regulation G). Any non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, or superior to, net income (loss), income (loss) from continuing operations, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Companys financial statements and filings with the SEC. Reconciliations of such non-GAAP information to the closest GAAP measures are included in the news release.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 19, 2012, the Company issued a news release, a copy of which is furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. In accordance with General Instructions B.2. of Form 8-K, the information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Also, see Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Page 2
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(Information furnished in this Item 9.01 is furnished pursuant to Item 9.01.)
(d) Exhibits.
99.1*    News Release of Baker Hughes Incorporated dated October 19, 2012.
*        Filed herewith.
 
Page 3
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Page 4
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Page 5

Exhibit 99.1
Baker Hughes Announces Third Quarter Results
HOUSTON, Texas (October 19, 2012)  Baker Hughes Incorporated (NYSE: BHI) announced today adjusted net income (a non-GAAP measure) for the third quarter of 2012 of
$322 million
or
$0.73
per diluted share. This compares to adjusted net income of
$1.18
per diluted share for the third quarter of 2011, and
$1.00
per diluted share for the second quarter of 2012.
Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2012 excludes an after-tax charge of
$28 million
(
$0.07
per diluted share) related to internally developed software and other information technology assets. It also excludes an after-tax charge of
$15 million
(
$0.03
per diluted share) related to the closure of a chemical manufacturing facility.
Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2012 includes after-tax charges of $27 million ($0.06 per diluted share) for bad debt provisions in Latin America and Europe.
Net income attributable to Baker Hughes (a GAAP measure) for the third quarter of 2012 was
$279 million
or
$0.63
per diluted share compared to
$1.61
per diluted share for the third quarter of 2011, and
$1.00
per diluted share for the second quarter of 2012. Please see Table 1 for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures.
Revenue for the
third quarter of 2012
was
$5.23 billion
,
up
3%
compared to
$5.06 billion
for the
third quarter of 2011
and remained relatively flat compared to
$5.21 billion
for the
second quarter of 2012
.
For the third quarter, Baker Hughes' revenue was flat, despite a drop in U.S. and international rig counts, said Martin Craighead, Baker Hughes' President and Chief Executive Officer. However, our margins were impacted by the well-known imbalance in the North American Pressure Pumping business. Additionally, activity was less than planned in several key geomarkets for Baker Hughes, resulting in an unfavorable mix. The clearest example is Canada, where the seasonal return of activity was nearly 30 percent less than this time last year. Internationally, the collective rig count in Brazil, Colombia, and Norway was down 17 percent compared to the last quarter, and these are all meaningful markets for Baker Hughes. In the fourth quarter, activity levels in our International segments are projected to rebound.
Craighead added, Looking ahead, we are well positioned in growing and emerging markets. Our share in the Gulf of Mexico - the fastest growing deepwater market in the world - has taken a significant step forward through a series of wins this quarter with several major clients. In the North Sea, we are mobilizing to provide integrated drilling services for a very large contract. In the Middle East, we continue to strengthen our Integrated Operations capabilities, and also have been assigned work in the emerging Saudi Arabian unconventional market.
Craighead continued, We will continue investing in technologies, product lines and regions that strengthen the core of our business and supply chain. At the same time, we remain focused on increasing returns through a disciplined approach to capital investment.
The Company recently made the decision to sell its Process and Pipeline Services (PPS) business. As a result, the Company has reclassified in all prior periods the revenue, expenses, cash flows, assets and liabilities of PPS to discontinued operations. PPS previously was a component of the Industrial Services segment, which now primarily consists of the Company's downstream chemicals and specialty polymers businesses.
The Company was cash flow positive in the third quarter of 2012, as cash
increased
by
$215 million
to $
1.01 billion
compared to the
second quarter of 2012
. Debt
increased
by $113 million to
$5.15 billion
compared to the
second quarter of 2012
.
Capital expenditures were
$732 million
, depreciation and amortization expense was
$399 million
, and dividend payments were
$66 million
in the
third quarter of 2012
.
Adjusted EBITDA (a non-GAAP measure) in the
third quarter of 2012
was
$924 million
, down $66 million compared to the second quarter of 2012. A reconciliation of net income attributable to Baker Hughes to Adjusted EBITDA is provided in Table 2. Supplemental financial information for revenue and adjusted operating profit before tax (a non-GAAP measure) is provided in Table 5.
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
(Unaudited)
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
(Unaudited)
Table 1: Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following table reconciles net income attributable to Baker Hughes, which is the directly comparable financial result determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), to adjusted net income
1
(a non-GAAP financial measure). This excludes identified items with respect to the third quarter of 2012 and 2011. There were no identified items requiring adjustment for the second quarter of 2012.
Table 2: Calculation of EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP measures)
 
1
Table 3: Segment Revenue, Profit Before Tax, and Profit Before Tax Margin
 
1
Table 4: Charges Associated with Information Technology and Facility Closure
 
1
Table 5: Supplemental Financial Information Excluding Certain Identified Items
The following table contains non-GAAP measures of operating profit before tax and operating profit before tax margin, excluding charges related to information technology, as well as the closure of a chemical manufacturing facility recorded in the third quarter of 2012 (see Table 4). There were no items requiring adjustment for the second quarter of 2012 or the third quarter of 2011.
Baker Hughes Operational Highlights
Recent contract awards have made Baker Hughes the leading provider of drilling services in the Gulf of Mexico, both in shallow and deep waters. This reflects Baker Hughes' track record of delivery excellence, having drilled through over 130 miles of salt in the Gulf of Mexico, and advanced technology offering, including OnTrak
TM
and TesTrak
TM
measurement-while-drilling services. In addition, Baker Hughes successfully ran new wireline formation evaluation technologies, significantly improving data quality and reducing deepwater rig time for multiple clients using GeoExplorer high resolution formation imager, our award winning MaxCOR rotary sidewall coring tool, and a new service for focused fluid sampling.
Statoil recently awarded Baker Hughes a $500 million two-year contract to provide integrated drilling services in offshore Norway. This contract will cover the delivery of drill bits, directional drilling, measurement and logging-while-drilling, mud-logging services, remote operations and integrated services for 25 offshore fields in the North Sea, Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea.
The industry adoption of Baker Hughes' AutoTrak Curve rotary steerable system is continuing to gain momentum as reflected in the drilling of over one million feet in the United States during the last four months. At the end of the third quarter, the cumulative footage drilled with this system since its introduction in March 2011 has exceeded two million feet.
Only two years since the OilPump Service acquisition, Baker Hughes has recently reached a significant milestone of 8,000 wells under well management and leasing contracts in Russia. This demonstrates Baker Hughes' growing position with key Russian customers in the largest electric submersible pump market in the world.
Baker Hughes' high resolution StarTrak logging-while-drilling system recently contributed to significantly improve a large U.S. independent operator's return on investment for 12 wells in the Colorado Wattenberg Basin. Eliminating the need for time consuming dedicated wireline runs represented an operational efficiency improvement of 35 to 70 hours per well. The acquired critical borehole data regarding natural fractures offered the opportunity to significantly improve completion design and effectiveness.
Baker Hughes is expanding its presence in the growing East Africa petroleum province. With estimates of over 100 Tcf of gas in place, this region holds some of the largest global discoveries in recent years. By opening a new facility in Mozambique and mobilizing directional drilling, logging-while-drilling and wireline services, Baker Hughes is ideally positioned to address this growing deepwater market.
Baker Hughes deployed new generation Bi-Fuel Pressure Pumping units operating on both natural gas and diesel fuel in South Texas, leading to reduced fuel costs and emissions. This initiative is currently generating a wide interest from operators across the United States and expected to gain traction throughout 2013.
Supplemental Financial Information
Supplemental financial information can be found on our website at:
www.bakerhughes.com/investor
in the financial information section.
Conference Call
The Company has scheduled a conference call to discuss managements outlook and the results reported in todays earnings announcement. The call will begin at 8 a.m. Eastern time, 7 a.m. Central time on Friday, October 19, 2012, the content of which is not part of this earnings release. A slide presentation providing summary financial and statistical information that will be discussed on the conference call will also be posted to the companys website and available for real-time viewing. To access the call, please call the conference call operator at: 800-374-2469 in the United States, or 706-634-7270 for international calls. Please call in 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time
and ask for the Baker Hughes Conference Call.  A replay of the call will be available through Friday, November 2, 2012. The number for the replay is: 800-585-8367 in the United States, or 404-537-3406 for international calls, and the access code is: 59811229. To access the webcast, go to:
http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release (and oral statements made regarding the subjects of this release, including on the conference call announced herein) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a forwardlooking statement). The words anticipate, believe, ensure, expect, if, intend, estimate, project, forecasts, predict, outlook, aim, will, could, should, potential, would, may, probable, likely, and similar expressions, and the negative thereof, are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are also affected by the risk factors described in the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011; Baker Hughes subsequent quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012; and those set forth from time-to-time in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The documents are available through the companys website at:
http://www.bakerhughes.com/investor
or through the SECs Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at:
http://www.sec.gov
. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement.
Our expectations regarding our business outlook and business plans; the business plans of our customers; oil and natural gas market conditions; cost and availability of resources; economic, legal and regulatory conditions and other matters are only our forecasts regarding these matters.
These forward looking statements, including forecasts, may be substantially different from actual results, which are affected by many risks including the following risk factors and the timing of any of these risk factors:
Economic conditions  the impact of worldwide economic conditions and sovereign debt crises in Europe; the effect that declines in credit availability may have on worldwide economic growth and demand for hydrocarbons; the ability of our customers to finance their exploration and development plans; and foreign currency exchange fluctuations and changes in the capital markets in locations where we operate.
Oil and gas market conditions  the level of petroleum industry exploration, development and production expenditures; the price of, volatility in pricing of, and the demand for crude oil and natural gas; drilling activity; drilling permits for and regulation of the shelf and the deepwater drilling; excess productive capacity; crude and product inventories; LNG supply and demand; seasonal and other adverse weather conditions that affect the demand for energy; severe weather conditions, such as tornadoes and hurricanes, that affect exploration and production activities; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) policy and the adherence by OPEC nations to their OPEC production quotas.
Terrorism and geopolitical risks  war, military action, terrorist activities or extended periods of international conflict, particularly involving any petroleumproducing or consuming regions; labor disruptions, civil unrest or security conditions where we operate; expropriation of assets by governmental action; cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks.
Price, market share, contract terms, and customer payments  our ability to obtain market prices for our products and services; the ability of our competitors to capture market share; our ability to retain or increase our market share; changes in our strategic direction; the effect of industry capacity relative to demand for the markets in which we participate; our ability to negotiate acceptable terms and conditions with our customers, especially national oil companies, to successfully execute these contracts, and receive payment in accordance with the terms of our contracts with our customers; our ability to manage warranty claims and improve performance and quality; our
ability to effectively manage our commercial agents.
Costs and availability of resources  our ability to manage the costs, availability, distribution and delivery of sufficient raw materials and components (especially steel alloys, chromium, copper, carbide, lead, nickel, titanium, beryllium, barite, synthetic and natural diamonds, sand, gel, chemicals, and electronic components); our ability to manage energy-related costs; our ability to manage compliance-related costs; our ability to recruit, train and retain the skilled and diverse workforce necessary to meet our business needs and manage the associated costs; the effect of manufacturing and subcontracting performance and capacity; the availability of essential electronic components used in our products; the effect of competition, particularly our ability to introduce new technology on a forecasted schedule and at forecasted costs; potential impairment of long-lived assets; unanticipated changes in the levels of our capital expenditures; the need to replace any unanticipated losses in capital assets; labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations; our ability to maintain information security.
Litigation and changes in laws or regulatory conditions  the potential for unexpected litigation or proceedings and our ability to obtain adequate insurance on commercially reasonable terms; the legislative, regulatory and business environment in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate; outcome of government and legal proceedings, as well as costs arising from compliance and ongoing or additional investigations in any of the countries where the company does business; new laws, regulations and policies that could have a significant impact on the future operations and conduct of all businesses; laws, regulations or restrictions on hydraulic fracturing; any restrictions on new or ongoing offshore drilling or permit and operational delays or program reductions as a result of the regulations in the Gulf of Mexico and other areas of the world; changes in export control laws or exchange control laws; the discovery of new environmental remediation sites; changes in environmental regulations; the discharge of hazardous materials or hydrocarbons into the environment; restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions; customs clearance procedures; changes in accounting standards; changes in tax laws or tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities; and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carry forwards and tax credits.
# # #
Baker Hughes is a leading supplier of oilfield services, products, technology and systems to the worldwide oil and natural gas industry. The companys 58,000-plus employees today work in more than 80 countries helping customers find, evaluate, drill, produce, transport and process hydrocarbon resources. For more information on Baker Hughes century-long history, visit:
www.bakerhughes.com
.


