Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Global Economic Developments below, we believe our core strengths will allow us to continue to execute our strategy for long term sustainable growth in revenue, net income and operating cash flow. 3 As our business has grown, our portfolio mix and brand control has evolved from primarily that of a mono brand U.S. centric menswear wholesaler with a broad array of product and geographic licenses to that of a portfolio of lifestyle brands with a direct control model over most of our brands, products and international territories. We believe that this broader and better diversified portfolio mix positions us for ongoing growth, offering our customers a range of products, price points and channels of distribution, and our size and global operations favorably position us to take advantage of synergies in design, sourcing and distribution. While balancing our long term key strategic objectives with our near term priorities to manage through the various risks associated with the current global economic environment, we intend to continue to pursue select opportunities for growth during the course of Fiscal 2013 and beyond. These opportunities and continued investment initiatives include: International Growth Opportunities Continued development and growth of our businesses in Asia, including the continued execution of our plans to reposition our existing distribution network by securing brand appropriate retail locations and maximizing our distribution opportunities in conjunction with the implementation of new merchandising, marketing and advertising strategies to elevate brand perception and positioning in the region; and Continued growth of our European businesses, including the expansion of our Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren and Lauren emerging brands, as well as the extension of our accessory product lines through existing and new channels of distribution. Direct to Consumer Growth Opportunities Continued global growth and expansion of our freestanding stores and concession shops and our e commerce operations, including the growth of our recently launched Ralph Lauren sites in Europe and Club Monaco site in the U.S. in connection with the implementation of new and refined merchandising and marketing strategies, as well as the introduction of e commerce in Asia and Canada. Product Innovation and Brand Extension Growth Opportunities Further development and broadening of our accessories product offerings, including handbags, footwear, small leathergoods and belts, eyewear and watches/jewelry, and expansion of our related distribution into new channels and geographies; Continued expansion of our Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren, Lauren, Club Monaco and RRL product assortments across various categories on a global basis; and Continued expansion of our Home and dresses product lines across our wholesale and other distribution channels. Investment in Operational Infrastructure Further system enhancements and implementations to standardize operating platforms and meet the expanding needs of our global organization. Such enhancements include the continued implementation of a global operating and financial reporting system as part of a multi year initiative, the next phase of which involves the migration of certain core areas of our domestic business to the new system, including customer order to cash and global merchandise procurement; and Supply chain enhancements to achieve efficiencies through the global coordination of our manufacturing and logistics operations, including in the areas of product management, merchandise alignment and planning. Global Talent Development and Management Continue to enhance our organizational development and talent management to support our global growth initiatives, including the refinement of succession plans for our key leadership positions. 4 Cash Flow Reinvestment Continue to make disciplined reinvestments of our cash flows from operations to support our global growth, including through capital improvements and investments in new distribution channel and product opportunities, with an increased focus on our international initiatives. Recent Developments Discontinuance of American Living During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2012, we decided with our wholesale partner J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (JCPenney) to discontinue the majority of the products sold under the American Living brand created for and exclusively sold to JCPenney, effective for the Fall 2012 wholesale selling season. As a result of this decision, we recorded pretax restructuring charges of approximately $3 million primarily related to severance actions during Fiscal 2012. The discontinuance of these American Living product lines is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated or segment results. Asia Pacific Restructuring Plan In May 2011, we initiated a restructuring plan to reposition and upgrade our existing distribution network and merchandising operations in the Asia Pacific region, which includes mainland China, Macau, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, Japan and South Korea (the Asia Pacific Restructuring Plan). This plan includes a reduction in workforce and the closure of certain retail stores and concession shops that do not support the new merchandising strategy. Actions related to the Asia Pacific Restructuring Plan resulted in pretax charges of approximately $6 million in Fiscal 2012. Assumption of Bedding and Bath Operations In May 2011, the license for our Lauren by Ralph Lauren bedding and bath products previously held by WestPoint Home, Inc. expired in accordance with the underlying agreement and we assumed control over this wholesale business. No significant payment or other consideration was provided related to this license expiration. WestPoint Home, Inc. will remain the exclusive licensee for our Lauren basic bedding program, which includes utility and blanket products. South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition On January 1, 2011, in connection with the transition of the Ralph Lauren branded apparel and accessories business in South Korea (the Ralph Lauren South Korea business) from a licensed to a wholly owned operation, we acquired certain net assets (including inventory) and employees from Doosan Corporation (Doosan) in exchange for an initial payment of approximately $25 million plus an additional aggregate payment of approximately $22 million (the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition). Doosan was our licensee for the Ralph Lauren South Korea business. We funded the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition with available cash on hand. In conjunction with the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition, we also entered into a transition services agreement with Doosan for the provision of certain financial and information systems services, which was subsequently extended through June 30, 2012. Our Brands and Products Since 1967, our distinctive brand image has been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, price tiers and markets. Our products, which include apparel, accessories (including footwear) and fragrance collections for men and women as well as childrenswear and home furnishings, comprise one of the worlds most widely recognized families of consumer brands. Reflecting a distinctive American perspective, we have been an innovator in aspirational lifestyle branding and believe that, under the direction of internationally renowned designer Mr. Ralph Lauren, we have had a considerable influence on the way people dress and the way that fashion is advertised throughout the world. We combine consumer insight with our design, marketing and imaging skills to offer, along with our licensing alliances, broad lifestyle product collections with a unified vision: 5 Apparel Products include extensive collections of mens, womens and childrens clothing; Accessories Products encompass a broad range, including footwear, eyewear, watches, fine jewelry, hats, belts and leathergoods, including handbags and luggage; Home Coordinated home products include bedding and bath products, furniture, fabric and wallpaper, paint, tabletop and giftware; and Fragrance Fragrance products are sold under our Big Pony, Romance, Love, Polo, Lauren, Safari, Ralph and Black Label brands, among others. Our lifestyle brand image is reinforced by our domestic internet sites, including RalphLauren.com, Rugby.com and ClubMonaco.com, as well as our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites in Europe, which service the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany and Austria. Ralph Lauren Purple Label In the time honored tradition of bespoke clothing and haberdashery, Ralph Lauren Purple Label presents a level of sartorial craftsmanship unparalleled today. Refined suitings are hand tailored from a selection of fine fabrics. Custom tailored Made to Measure suits are hand constructed by artisans trained in the art of handmade clothing. Sophisticated sportswear and dandy inspired dress furnishings are designed with meticulous attention to every detail. Dedicated to the highest level of quality and elegance, Ralph Lauren Purple Label is the ultimate expression of luxury for the modern gentleman. Ralph Lauren Purple Label also offers benchmade footwear and Made to Order dress furnishings, accessories and luggage, as well as hand monogramming and custom engraving services. Ralph Lauren Purple Label is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, in an exclusive selection of fine specialty stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including at RalphLauren.com. Ralph Lauren Mens Black Label With a sharp, modern attitude, Ralph Lauren Black Label is the essence of sophisticated dressing for men. Classic suitings feature razor sharp tailoring and dramatically lean silhouettes. Luxe, racy sportswear is crafted from fine fabrics and designed with subtle references to technical performance wear. Ultra stylish yet timeless, the Black Label collection is sleek, bold and masculine. Ralph Lauren Black Label is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, a limited selection of specialty stores and better department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including at RalphLauren.com. Ralph Lauren Mens Black Label Denim Introduced in 2011, Ralph Lauren Mens Black Label Denim represents the next evolution of luxe, ultramodern denim for men, with fashion forward fits, chic signature details and a focus on authentic innovative treatments. With a renegade edge and international appeal, Black Label Denim redefines iconic pieces in luxury and rugged fabrics, with accents that capture Ralph Laurens unique sensibility, from utility and leather to western and automotive. Confident and masculine, Ralph Lauren combines state of the art denim and superfine sportswear to create the ultimate in cool sophistication. Black Label Denim is available at select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, at select better department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including at RalphLauren.com. Polo Ralph Lauren Authentic and iconic, Polo is the original symbol of the modern preppy lifestyle. Combining Ivy League classics and time honored English haberdashery with downtown styles and All American sporting looks, Polo sportswear and tailored clothing present a one of a kind vision of menswear that is stylish and timeless, and appeals to all generations of men. Polos signature aesthetic along with our renowned polo player logo is recognized worldwide as a mark of contemporary heritage excellence. Polo is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, better department stores, select specialty stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. 6 Lauren for Men Classic and polished, Lauren for Men conveys a spirit of tradition with a contemporary attitude. A complete collection of mens tailored clothing, including suits, sport coats, dress shirts, dress pants, tuxedos, topcoats and ties, the Lauren mens line offers the sophisticated spirit and preppy heritage of Ralph Lauren menswear at a more accessible price point. A soft, natural shoulder and modern construction details ensure elegant styling with superior comfort and the integrity of a well made garment. Lauren for Men is available at select department stores around the world. Ralph by Ralph Lauren Superior fabrics and a precise, impeccable construction define the distinguished aesthetic of the Ralph by Ralph Lauren collection for men. Suit separates, sport coats, vests and topcoats are all fashioned with the hallmarks of better mens suitings, from half canvas jacket constructions and high quality Bemberg linings to hand finished seams, felled cuffs and hems and reinforcements at natural points of wear. Timeless and unmistakably Ralph Lauren, the Ralph by Ralph Lauren collection offers refined luxury at an excellent value. Ralph by Ralph Lauren is available exclusively at Dillards stores. Ralph Lauren Womens Collection Each runway season, Ralph Laurens most dramatic vision of womens fashion is presented to the world. Timeless and sophisticated, Womens Collection reflects Ralph Laurens definitive design philosophy in its groundbreaking juxtapositions of feminine glamour with impeccable tailoring once found only in menswear. From exquisite hand embroidered evening gowns worn on the red carpet to luxurious hand finished cashmere tweed suitings to chic vintage denim inspired by rustic Americana, Womens Collection is the epitome of modern, rarefied fashion. Ralph Lauren Womens Collection is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, in an exclusive selection of fine specialty stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Ralph Lauren Womens Black Label Black Label is the essence of sleek, modern sophistication for women. Proportions are chic and dramatic, ranging from menswear inspired silhouettes to shimmering and feminine eveningwear. Fabrics are ultra luxe and textural, color statements are rich and striking, and racy technical references infuse this glamorous collection with a bold, sexy edge. Black Label is offered in select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, designer boutiques, fine specialty stores, better department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Ralph Lauren Blue Label Modern and eclectic with a sexy, youthful spirit, Blue Label embodies the iconic Ralph Lauren sensibility in its mix of vintage Ivy League prep, heritage equestrian, romantic bohemian and rugged Western inspirations. Unmistakably Ralph Lauren in its elegance and sophistication, Blue Label defines a fresh, free spirited femininity. Blue Label is offered in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, better department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Lauren by Ralph Lauren Lauren translates the sophisticated luxury of Ralph Lauren womenswear into an affordable wardrobe for every occasion. From timeless essentials with special finishing touches to polished silhouettes with a chic, modern spirit, Lauren maintains an elegant, feminine heritage while making strong seasonal fashion statements. Lauren Active infuses a fashion sensibility into practical sports apparel for golf, tennis, yoga and weekend wear. Lauren Jeans Co. presents a fresh perspective on denim with a breadth of styles and a complementary collection of sportswear items. Lauren Handbags, first introduced for the Fall 2010 season, add to a wide range of accessories offerings from Lauren, including belts, scarves, gloves, footwear and jewelry. Lauren offers a range of true, consistent fits from Petites to Womens sizes. Lauren is sold in select department stores in the U.S., Europe, Canada and Mexico, and is also available online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. 7 Pink Pony Established in 2000, Pink Pony is Ralph Laurens worldwide initiative in the fight against cancer. Pink Pony supports programs for early diagnosis, education, treatment and research, and is dedicated to bringing patient navigation and quality cancer care to medically underserved communities. A percentage of sales from all Pink Pony products benefits the Pink Pony Fund of the Polo Ralph Lauren Foundation and other major cancer charities around the world. Pink Pony consists of feminine, slim fitting womens sportswear and accessories crafted in luxurious fabrics. From hooded sweatshirts and cotton mesh polos to canvas tote bags and cashmere yoga pants, all Pink Pony items feature our iconic pink Polo Player a symbol of our commitment to the fight against cancer. Pink Pony is available at select Ralph Lauren stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. In October 2009, Pink Pony was first introduced at Bloomingdales, and is available on select occasions. To learn more about Pink Pony and our Companys other philanthropic efforts, please visit RalphLauren.com/Philanthropy. RRL RRL captures an authentic American spirit with a focus on integrity, character and timeworn charm. Founded in 1993 and named after Ralph and Ricky Laurens Double RL ranch in Colorado, RRL offers a mix of selvage denim, vintage apparel and accessories and rugged sportswear with roots in workwear and military gear. With denim at the heart of the brand, RRL is dedicated to time honored details and the highest quality workmanship from ring spun long staple cotton yarns to traditional dyeing techniques to hand applied artisanal finishes that result in one of a kind, exceptionally durable pieces. In Spring 2010, RRL launched womenswear with the same vintage heritage. RRL is available at RRL stores and select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, as well as online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. RLX Ralph Lauren Created to answer the demand for superior high performance outfitting, RLX Ralph Lauren for men and women unites the highest standards of luxury, technology and style. From cutting edge functional gear for professional athletes to exceptionally luxe lifestyle apparel for modern living, RLX Ralph Lauren defines the next evolution of design with a philosophy focused on purity of form, unique construction techniques and innovative fabrications. The RLX Ralph Lauren line is available around the world at select Ralph Lauren stores, top specialty and department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren Introduced in Fall 2011 and anchored in Ralph Laurens authentic American heritage, Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren for men and women offers a new approach to denim and sportswear, capturing the weathered character of found vintage pieces and styling them with an eclectic, individualistic spirit. For her, unexpected mixes feminine with utility, rough with romantic create sexy, bohemian style. For him, American classics mix with rugged outdoorsman looks to define a new carefree tradition of denim dressing. Artisanal details from unique treatments and slash and mending to metalwork and beading complete this modern statement of free spirited, down to earth denim. Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren is available domestically at Macys, in Europe at our inaugural Denim & Supply store in Amsterdam and select specialty stores, in Canada at select specialty stores, and in Asia at select specialty stores and concession based shop within shops. In addition, Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren is available online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Golf Tested and worn by top ranked professional golfers, Polo Golf for men and Ralph Lauren Golf for women define heritage excellence in the world of golf. With a sharpened focus on the needs of the modern player but always rooted in the rich design tradition of Ralph Lauren, the Golf collections combine state of the art performance wear with luxurious finishing touches for collections that travel effortlessly between the course and the clubhouse. The RLX Golf collection is ultramodern, graphic and dedicated to performance driven design. From progressive fits and sophisticated styles to the technologically advanced fabrics, RLX golf is the ultimate in functional luxury. Ralph Lauren is proud to sponsor Tom Watson, Davis Love III, Jonathan Byrd, Morgan Pressel, 8 Luke Donald, Webb Simpson, Matteo Manassero, Billy Horschel, Ben Martin and Charles Howell III. The Polo, Ralph Lauren and RLX Golf collections are available in select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, the most exclusive private clubs and resorts, and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Rugby Launched in 2004, Rugby translates Ralph Laurens legacy of authentic prep into an eclectic, irreverent collection for young men and women. Cool and rebellious, vintage varsity and heritage classics are reinvented with a chic downtown flair and playful, sexy vibe for an individualistic approach to personal style. Iconic logos, vintage patches and spirited crests give Rugby a bold, one of a kind edge. The Rugby collections are available at Rugby stores throughout the U.S. and at Rugby.com, as well as at our international Rugby stores in the U.K. and Japan, including our recently opened Rugby store in Nagoya, Japan. Ralph Lauren Childrenswear Ralph Lauren Childrenswear is designed to reflect the timeless heritage and modern spirit of Ralph Laurens collections for men and women. Signature classics, including iconic polo knit shirts and luxurious cashmere cable sweaters, are interpreted in the most sophisticated and vibrant colors. Fashionable styles are inspired by Ralph Laurens unique vision each season from All American sportswear with preppy and equestrian inspirations to tailored and elegant ensembles for special occasions. Ralph Lauren Childrenswear is available in a full range of sizes for children, from Layette, Infant and Toddler to Girls size 16 and Boys size 20. Ralph Lauren Childrenswear can be found in select Ralph Lauren stores, better department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Accessories (including Footwear) Ralph Lauren accessories for men and women reflect the distinctive design philosophies known throughout the world of Ralph Lauren and represent a continuous dedication to impeccable craftsmanship and iconic beauty. Ralph Lauren accessories for women capture a wide array of timeless styles, from a glamorous handmade alligator Ricky Bag that takes up to 12 hours to craft to weathered canvas saddle bags with authentic equestrian hardware to vintage luggage inspired handbags that recall the golden age of travel. Ralph Laurens signature motifs can be found throughout from jockey print scarves, riding boots with equestrian hardware and vintage aviator sunglasses to striking diamante evening shoes, romantic ruffled scarves and antique, one of a kind belts and jewelry. Ralph Lauren accessories and dress furnishings are a mans most refined finishing touch. Iconic and innovative neckties, which launched the Polo brand in 1967, are woven from the finest silks. Footwear ranges from velvet monogrammed slippers and benchmade dress shoes to hand sewn penny loafers and rugged suede and shearling duck boots. Handcrafted luggage and leathergoods combine handsome sophistication with functionality. Each accessory is meticulously designed to complement Ralph Laurens menswear collections from vintage inspired eyewear and Savile Row inspired haberdashery to sleek silver engraved cuff links and engine turned belt buckles to luxe cashmere scarves and hand sewn shearling gloves. Ralph Lauren accessories are available in Ralph Lauren stores, select specialty stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Ralph Lauren Watches In 2008, Ralph Lauren launched his premier collection of watches in partnership with internationally renowned luxury group Compagnie Financiere Richemont SA (Richemont). The three timepiece collections the iconic Ralph Lauren Stirrup, the refined Ralph Lauren Slim Classique and the performance inspired Ralph Lauren Sporting embody Ralph Laurens passion for impeccable quality and exquisite design. Ralph Lauren timepieces feature the finest in Swiss Made manufacture movements and some of the worlds most luxurious materials from pure platinum and polished 18 carat gold cases to enamel dials, traditional guilloch&eacute; patterns and full cut diamonds. Each year, Ralph Lauren Watches debuts new designs that continue this legacy of authentic, high end watchmaking, with select styles available in limited editions. Ralph Lauren Watches are available at select Ralph Lauren stores around the world and only the finest watch retailers. 9 Ralph Lauren Fine Jewelry In 2010, Ralph Lauren Watch & Jewelry Co. introduced the premier collections of Ralph Lauren Fine Jewelry in celebration of Ralph Laurens new womens flagship store in New York City. Inspired by brilliance, movement and the alluring tradition of fine jewelry, this debut unveiled several collections including the Ralph Lauren Diamond Link Collection, the Ralph Lauren Equestrian Collection, the Ralph Lauren Monogram Collection, the Ralph Lauren Chunky Chains Collection and the Ralph Lauren New Romantic Collection all capturing the glamour and craftsmanship of Ralph Laurens most luxurious designs. The fine jewelry collections include elegantly set pav&eacute; diamond links, classic equestrian motifs stylized in shimmering diamonds, romantic chandelier earrings, chic chunky chains and lustrous pearl strands with a dazzling diamond monogram. Each piece is handcrafted using precious materials and intricate finishing techniques, highlighting a unique beauty and graceful silhouette that is signature Ralph Lauren. Ralph Lauren Fine Jewelry is available exclusively at the 888 Madison Avenue flagship store in New York City, the Avenue Montaigne flagship store in Paris and the Peninsula store in Hong Kong. Fragrance In 1978, Mr. Ralph Lauren expanded his lifestyle brand to encompass the world of fragrance, launching Lauren for women and Polo for men. Since then, Ralph Lauren Fragrance has captured the essence of Ralph Laurens mens and womens brands, from the timeless heritage of Lauren and Polo to the sophisticated beauty of Polo Black for men and Romance for women to the modern, fresh Ralph fragrances for her, designed to appeal to a younger audience. Womens fragrances include Safari, Polo Sport, Ralph Lauren Blue, Lauren, Romance, the Ralph Collection, Notorious, Love, and the Big Pony collection. Mens fragrances include Safari, Polo Sport, Polo Blue, Romance, Romance Silver, Purple Label, Explorer, Polo Black, Double Black, Red, White and Blue, and the Big Pony collection. Ralph Lauren fragrances are available in department stores, specialty and duty free stores, perfumeries, select Ralph Lauren stores and online at RalphLauren.com. Ralph Lauren Home As the first American fashion designer to create an all encompassing collection for the home, Ralph Lauren presents home furnishings and accessories that reflect the enduring style and exquisite craftsmanship synonymous with the name Ralph Lauren. Whether inspired by time honored tradition, the utmost in modern sophistication or the beauty of rare objects collected around the world, Ralph Lauren Home is dedicated to fine materials and great attention to detail for the ultimate in artisanal luxury. The collections include furniture, bed and bath linens, china, crystal, silver, decorative accessories and gifts, as well as lighting, paint, fabric, trimmings, wallcovering and floorcovering. Ralph Lauren Home offers exclusive luxury goods at select Ralph Lauren stores, trade showrooms and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. The complete world of Ralph Lauren Home can be explored online at RalphLaurenHome.com. Lauren Home Lauren Home presents a signature design sensibility that combines heritage elegance with a fresh, modern flair. Finely crafted and highly accessible for any well appointed home, Lauren Home offers a wide array of collections that range from classic to modern, including bedding, bath, furniture, tabletop, gifts, decorative accessories, floorcovering and lighting. Lauren Home is available at select department stores, home specialty stores around the world and online at our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Ralph Lauren Paint Introduced in 1995, Ralph Lauren Paint offers exceptional quality interior paint ranked high in the industry for performance. Inspired by classic and modern lifestyles from the world of Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Paint features a signature palette of over 500 colors and a collection of unique finishes and innovative techniques. An extension of the Ralph Lauren Home lifestyle, Ralph Lauren Paint is an attainable product designed to reach a broad, yet selective audience. Ralph Lauren Paint is offered at select specialty stores in the U.S. The complete color palette, paint how tos and a guide to professional painters are online at RalphLaurenPaint.com. 10 Club Monaco Founded in 1985, Club Monaco is an international destination for affordable, stylish luxury. Each season, Club Monaco designs, manufactures and markets its own clothing and accessories for men and women, offering key fashion pieces with modern, urban sophistication and a selection of updated classics from the perfect white shirt and black pencil skirt to refined suiting and Italian cashmere. The brands signature aesthetic is defined by clean, contemporary design and a palette of versatile neutrals infused with pops of vibrant colors. Club Monaco apparel and accessories are available at Club Monaco stores around the world, as well as online in the U.S. at the recently launched ClubMonaco.com e commerce site. In April 2012, Club Monaco further expanded its e commerce presence in North America by launching ClubMonaco.ca in Canada. Club Monaco is currently also available in Europe at select department stores and specialty shops. Global Brand Concepts Chaps Chaps translates the classic heritage and timeless aesthetic of Ralph Lauren into an accessible line for men, women, children and the home. From casual basics designed for versatility and ease of wear to smart, finely tailored silhouettes perfect for business and more formal occasions, Chaps creates interchangeable classics that are both enduring and affordable. The Chaps mens collection is available at select department and specialty stores, primarily in the U.S. The Chaps collections for women, children and the home are available exclusively at Kohls Corporation and Kohls.com. American Living Available exclusively at JCPenney and JCP.com, American Living offers classic American style with a fresh, modern spirit and authentic sensibility. During Fiscal 2012, we decided with JCPenney to discontinue the majority of the products sold under the American Living brand, effective for the Fall 2012 wholesale selling season. Our Wholesale Segment Our Wholesale segment sells our products to leading upscale and certain mid tier department stores, specialty stores and golf and pro shops, both domestically and internationally. We have continued to focus on elevating our brand by improving in store product assortment and presentation, and improving full price sell throughs to consumers. As of the end of Fiscal 2012, our Ralph Lauren branded products were sold through over 11,000 doors worldwide and during Fiscal 2012, we invested approximately $84 million in related shop within shops primarily in domestic and international department and specialty stores. Our products are also sold through the e commerce sites of certain of our wholesale customers. The primary product offerings sold through our wholesale channels of distribution include menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories (including footwear) and home furnishings. Our collection brands Womens Ralph Lauren Collection and Black Label and Mens Purple Label and Black Label are distributed worldwide through a limited number of premier fashion retailers. Department stores are our major wholesale customers in North America. In Europe, our wholesale sales are a varying mix of sales to both department stores and specialty shops, depending on the country. We also distribute product to certain licensed stores run by franchisees in Europe. In addition, our Club Monaco products are distributed through select department stores and specialty shops in Europe. In Japan, our wholesale products are distributed primarily through shop within shops at premier and top tier department stores, and the mix of business is weighted to Womens Blue Label. In Greater China and Southeast Asia region, which is comprised of China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand, our wholesale products are sold at mid and top tier department stores, and the mix of business is primarily weighted to Mens and Womens Blue Label. We sell the majority of our excess and out of season products through secondary distribution channels worldwide, including our retail factory stores. 11 Worldwide Distribution Channels The following table presents the number of doors by geographic location, in which Ralph Lauren branded products distributed by our Wholesale segment were sold to consumers in our primary channels of distribution as of March 31, 2012: Location Number ofDoors The Americas 6,587 Europe 4,377 Asia 83 Total 11,047 In addition, American Living and Chaps branded products distributed by our Wholesale segment were sold domestically through approximately 1,800 doors as of March 31, 2012. We have three key wholesale customers that generate significant sales volume. For Fiscal 2012, these customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 40% of total wholesale revenues, with Macys, Inc. representing approximately 20% of total wholesale revenues. Our product brands are sold primarily through our own sales forces. Our Wholesale segment maintains its primary showrooms in New York City. In addition, we maintain regional showrooms in Chicago, Dallas, Milan, Paris, London, Munich, Madrid, Stockholm and Tokyo. Shop within Shops. As a critical element of our distribution to department stores, we and our licensing partners utilize shop within shops to enhance brand recognition, to permit more complete merchandising of our lines by the department stores and to differentiate the presentation of products. Shop within shop fixed assets primarily include items such as customized freestanding fixtures, wall cases and components, decorative items and flooring. As of March 31, 2012, we had approximately 18,000 shop within shops dedicated to our Ralph Lauren branded wholesale products worldwide. The size of our shop within shops ranges from approximately 300 to 7,400 square feet. We normally share in the cost of building out these shop within shops with our wholesale customers. Basic Stock Replenishment Program. Basic products such as knit shirts, chino pants, oxford cloth shirts, and selected accessories (including footwear) and Home products can be ordered at any time through our basic stock replenishment programs. We generally ship these products within two to five days of order receipt. Our Retail Segment As of March 31, 2012, our Retail segment consisted of 379 stores worldwide, totaling approximately 2.9 million gross square feet, 474 concessions based shop within shops and six e commerce websites. The extension of our direct to consumer reach is a primary long term strategic goal. Ralph Lauren Retail Stores Our Ralph Lauren retail stores reinforce the luxury image and distinct sensibility of our brands and feature exclusive lines that are not sold in domestic department stores. We opened 10 new Ralph Lauren stores, acquired 3 previously licensed stores, and closed 16 Ralph Lauren stores in Fiscal 2012. Our retail stores are primarily situated in major upscale street locations and upscale regional malls, generally in large urban markets. 12 We operated the following Ralph Lauren retail stores as of March 31, 2012: Location Ralph Lauren Stores The Americas 61 Europe 26 Asia 16 Total 103 Ralph Lauren stores feature the broadest range of the Ralph Lauren apparel, accessories and Home product assortments in an atmosphere reflecting the distinctive attitude and luxury positioning of the Ralph Lauren brand. Our seven flagship Ralph Lauren store locations showcase our upper end luxury styles and products and demonstrate our most refined merchandising techniques. In addition to generating sales of our products, our worldwide Ralph Lauren retail stores set, reinforce and capitalize on the image of our brands. Our Ralph Lauren stores range in size from approximately 800 to 38,000 square feet. Club Monaco Retail Stores Our Club Monaco retail stores feature fashion apparel and accessories for both men and women. The brands clean and contemporary signature style forms the foundation of a modern wardrobe. As of March 31, 2012, we operated 59 Club Monaco retail stores in the U.S. and Canada. Our Club Monaco stores range in size from approximately 1,700 to 17,400 square feet. Rugby Retail Stores Rugby is a vertical retail format featuring an aspirational lifestyle collection of apparel and accessories for men and women. The brand is characterized by a youthful, preppy attitude which resonates throughout the line and the store experience. As of March 31, 2012, we operated 16 Rugby retail stores, including 13 stores in the U.S., two stores in Asia and one store in Europe. Our Rugby stores range in size from approximately 900 to 7,000 square feet. Factory Retail Stores We extend our reach to additional consumer groups through our 201 factory stores worldwide. Our factory stores are generally located in outlet centers. During Fiscal 2012, we added 10 new factory stores, net. We operated the following factory retail stores as of March 31, 2012: Location Factory Stores The Americas 143 Europe 35 Asia 23 Total 201 Our factory stores in the Americas offer selections of our menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories, home furnishings and fragrances. Ranging in size from approximately 2,500 to 20,000 square feet, with an average of approximately 9,800 square feet, these stores are principally located in major outlet centers in 39 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico. Our factory stores in Europe offer selections of our menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories, home furnishings and fragrances. Ranging in size from approximately 1,400 to 19,700 square feet, with an average of approximately 6,700 square feet, these stores are located in 13 countries, principally in major outlet centers. 13 Our factory stores in Asia offer selections of our menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories and fragrances. Ranging in size from approximately 2,800 to 11,800 square feet, with an average of approximately 6,600 square feet, these stores are primarily located throughout Japan and in or near other major cities within the Asia Pacific region, principally in major outlet centers. Factory stores obtain products from our suppliers, our product licensing partners and our retail and e commerce stores, and serve as a secondary distribution channel for our excess and out of season products. Concessions based Shop within Shops In Asia, the terms of trade for shop within shops are largely conducted on a concessions basis, whereby inventory continues to be owned by us (not the department store) until ultimate sale to the end consumer. The salespeople involved in the sales transaction are generally our employees and not those of the department store. As of March 31, 2012, we had 474 concessions based shop within shops at 209 retail locations dedicated to our products, primarily in Asia. The size of our concessions based shop within shops ranges from approximately 180 to 4,300 square feet. We share in the cost of building out these shop within shops with our department store partners. E commerce Websites In addition to our stores, our Retail segment sells products online through our e commerce channel, which includes: Our domestic sites located at www.RalphLauren.com and www.Rugby.com, as well as our recently launched Club Monaco site located at www.ClubMonaco.com; and Our European sites for the United Kingdom located at www.RalphLauren.co.uk and for France (which also services the surrounding countries of Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands) located at www.RalphLauren.fr, as well as our recently launched site for Germany (which also services Austria) located at www.RalphLauren.de. Our Ralph Lauren e commerce sites in the U.S. and Europe offer our customers access to a broad array of Ralph Lauren apparel, accessories and Home products, allow us to reach retail customers on a multi channel basis and reinforce the luxury image of our brands. Our domestic RalphLauren.com site averaged 4.3 million unique visitors a month and acquired approximately 600,000 new customers, resulting in over 900,000 total customers in Fiscal 2012. Rugby.com offers clothing and accessories for purchase along with style tips, unique videos and blog based content. Rugby.com offers an extensive array of Rugby products for young men and women within a full lifestyle destination. In March 2012, we expanded our e commerce presence with the launch of ClubMonaco.com in the U.S. Subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2012, in April 2012, we further expanded our e commerce operations in the Americas by launching ClubMonaco.ca, our first Canadian retail e commerce site. These sites offer our domestic and Canadian customers access to our Club Monacos global assortment of womenswear, menswear and accessories product lines, as well as select online exclusives. Our Licensing Segment Through licensing alliances, we combine our consumer insight, design, and marketing skills with the specific product or geographic competencies of our licensing partners to create and build new businesses. We generally seek out licensing partners who: are leaders in their respective markets; contribute the majority of the product development costs; provide the operational infrastructure required to support the business; and own the inventory. 14 We grant our product licensees the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified categories of products under one or more of our trademarks. We grant our international geographic area licensing partners exclusive rights to distribute certain brands or classes of our products and operate retail stores in specific international territories. These geographic area licensees source products from us, our product licensing partners and independent sources. Each licensing partner pays us royalties based upon its sales of our products, generally subject to a minimum royalty requirement for the right to use our trademarks and design services. In addition, licensing partners may be required to allocate a portion of their revenues to advertise our products and share in the creative costs associated with these products. Larger allocations are required in connection with launches of new products or in new territories. Our licenses generally have one to five year terms and may grant the licensees conditional renewal options. We work closely with our licensing partners to ensure that their products are developed, marketed and distributed so as to reach the intended market opportunity and to present consistently to consumers worldwide the distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with our brands. Virtually all aspects of the design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of Ralph Lauren products are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. The result is a consistent identity for Ralph Lauren products across product categories and international markets. Approximately 40% of our licensing revenue for Fiscal 2012 was derived from four licensing partners: Luxottica Group, S.p.A. (12%), Peerless, Inc. (10%), The Warnaco Group, Inc. (9%) and LOreal S.A. (9%). Product Licenses The following table lists our principal product licensing agreements for mens sportswear, mens tailored clothing, mens underwear and sleepwear, eyewear and fragrances as of March 31, 2012. Except as noted in the table, these product licenses cover the U.S. or North America only. Licensing Partner Licensed Product Category Hanes Brands Mens Underwear and Sleepwear LOreal S.A. (global) Mens and Womens Fragrances, Cosmetics, Color and Skin Care Products Luxottica Group, S.p.A. (global) Eyewear Peerless, Inc. Mens Chaps, Lauren, Ralph and American Living Tailored Clothing The Warnaco Group, Inc. Mens Chaps Sportswear International Licenses We believe that international markets offer additional opportunities for our quintessential American designs and lifestyle image. We work with our international licensing partners to facilitate international growth in their respective territories. International expansion/growth opportunities may include: the roll out of new products and brands following their launch in the U.S.; the introduction of additional product lines; the entrance into new international markets; the addition of Ralph Lauren stores in these markets; and the expansion and upgrade of shop within shop networks in these markets. 15 The following table identifies our principal international area licensing partners (excluding Ralph Lauren Home and Club Monaco licensees) as of March 31, 2012: Licensing Partner Territory Oroton Group/PRL Australia Australia and New Zealand P.R.L. Enterprises, S.A.(1) Panama, Aruba, Curacao, the Cayman Islands, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, Belize, Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia, Peru, Antigua, Barbados, the Dominican Republic, St. Lucia, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela Commercial Madison, S.A. Chile (1) Our international licensing agreement with P.R.L. Enterprises, S.A. is due to expire in June 2012, at which point we plan to assume control over the related product distribution. Our international licensing partners acquire the right to sell, promote, market and or distribute various categories of our products in a given geographic area. These rights may include the right to own and operate retail stores. The economic arrangements are similar to those of our product licensing partners. We design licensed products either alone or in collaboration with our domestic licensing partners. Our product licensees, whose territories do not include the international geographic area licensees territories, generally provide our international licensing partners with product or patterns, piece goods, manufacturing locations and other information and assistance necessary to achieve product uniformity, for which they are often compensated by these partners. As of March 31, 2012, our international licensing partners operated 59 Ralph Lauren stores, 27 Ralph Lauren concession shops and 58 Club Monaco stores and shops. Ralph Lauren Home Together with our licensing partners, we offer an extensive collection of home products that draw upon and further the design themes of our other product lines, contributing to our complete lifestyle concept. Products are sold under the Ralph Lauren Home, Lauren by Ralph Lauren, Chaps and American Living brands in three primary categories: bedding and bath, home d&eacute;cor and home improvement. As of March 31, 2012, we had agreements with twelve domestic and two international Home product licensing partners, and one international Home product sublicensing partner. We perform a broader range of services for our Ralph Lauren Home licensing partners than we do for our other licensing partners. These services include design, operating showrooms, marketing, advertising and, in some cases, sales. In general, the licensing partners manufacture and own the inventory, and ship the products. Our Ralph Lauren Home licensing alliances generally have 3 to 5 year terms and may grant the licensee conditional renewal options. Ralph Lauren Home products are positioned at the upper tiers of their respective markets and are offered at a range of price levels. These products are generally distributed through several channels of distribution, including department stores, specialty home furnishings stores, interior design showrooms, customer direct mail catalogs, home centers and the Internet, as well as our own stores and e commerce websites. As with our other products, the use of shop within shops is central to our department store distribution strategy. 16 The Ralph Lauren Home, Lauren by Ralph Lauren, Chaps and American Living Home products offered by us and our product licensing partners as of March 31, 2012 primarily consisted of the following: Category Licensed Product Licensing Partner Bedding and Bath Sheets, bedding accessories, towels, blankets, down comforters, other decorative bedding and accessories Fremaux Delorme, Ichida, Kohls Department Stores, Inc., J.C. Penney Company, Inc., WestPoint Home, Inc.(1) Home D&eacute;cor Fabric and wallpaper P. Kaufmann, Inc. Furniture EJ Victor, Inc. Tabletop and giftware Fitz and Floyd, Inc. Window and decorative accessories J.C. Penney Corp., Inc. Home Improvement Interior paints and stains Akzo Nobel Paints LLC (1) In May 2011, the license for our Lauren by Ralph Lauren bedding and bath products previously held by WestPoint Home, Inc. expired in accordance with the underlying agreement and we assumed control over this wholesale business. WestPoint Home, Inc. remains the exclusive licensee for our Lauren basic bedding program, which includes utility and blanket products. Product Design Our products reflect a timeless and innovative interpretation of American style with a strong international appeal. Our consistent emphasis on new and distinctive design has been an important contributor to the prominence, strength and reputation of the Ralph Lauren brands. All Ralph Lauren products are designed by, or under the direction of, Mr. Ralph Lauren and our design staff, which is divided into nine departments: Menswear, Womens Collection, Womens Ready to Wear, Dresses, Childrens, Accessories (including footwear), Home, Club Monaco and Rugby. We form design teams around our brands and product categories to develop concepts, themes and products for each brand and category. Through close collaboration with merchandising, sales and production staff, these teams support all three segments of our business Wholesale, Retail and Licensing in order to gain market and other valuable input. Marketing and Advertising Our marketing and advertising programs communicate the themes and images of our brands and are integral to our product offering. The majority of our advertising program is created and executed on a centralized basis through our in house creative and advertising organization to ensure consistency of presentation, which is complemented by our marketing experts in each region who help to execute our international strategies. We create distinctive image advertising for our brands, conveying the particular message of each one within the context of the overall Ralph Lauren aesthetic. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item and include a variety of products offered by ourselves and, in some cases, our licensing partners. Our primary advertising medium is print, with multiple page advertisements appearing regularly in a range of fashion, lifestyle and general interest magazines. Major print advertising campaigns are conducted during the fall and spring retail seasons, with additions throughout the year to coincide with product deliveries. In addition to print, we utilize television and outdoor media in certain of our marketing programs. Our digital advertising programs focus on high impact and innovative display units, which allow us to convey our key brand messages and lifestyle positioning. We also develop digital editorial initiatives that allow for deeper education and engagement around the Ralph Lauren lifestyle, including the Ralph Lauren magazine, style guides and brand videos. We deploy these marketing and advertising initiatives through the Internet, mobile platforms and social media. Our e commerce websites present the Ralph Lauren lifestyle on the Internet while offering a broad array of our apparel, accessories and Home product lines. We advertise in consumer and trade print and digital media properties, and participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with some of our retailer partners. We also provide point of sale fixtures and 17 signage to our wholesale customers to enhance the presentation of our products at retail locations. In addition, when our licensing partners are required to spend an amount equal to a percent of their licensed product sales on advertising, we coordinate the advertising placement on their behalf. We expensed approximately $213 million related to the advertising, marketing and promotion of our products in Fiscal 2012. We market our brand through direct to consumer marketing, events and interactive digital activities. We use our consumer database and consumer knowledge to guide these activities. We believe our investments in shop in shop environments and retail stores, including our flagship locations worldwide, contribute to and enhance the themes of our brands to consumers. We also conduct a variety of public relations activities. Each of our spring and fall womenswear collections are presented at major fashion shows in New York City, which typically generate extensive domestic and international media coverage. We introduce each of the spring and fall menswear collections at press presentations in major cities such as New York and Milan, Italy. In addition, we organize in store appearances by our models and certain professional athletes. We are the first exclusive outfitter for all on court officials at the Wimbledon tennis tournament and are currently the official outfitter of all on court officials at the U.S. Open tennis tournament. We are also the exclusive Official Parade Outfitter for the 2012 U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Teams and have the right to manufacture, distribute, advertise, promote and sell products in the U.S. which replicate the Parade Outfits and associated leisure wear. As part of our involvement with Team U.S.A. for the Summer 2012 London games, we have established a partnership with athletes serving as brand ambassadors, including members of the gymnastics, swimming, beach volleyball and Paralympics basketball teams, and others. In January 2011, we entered into a five year agreement with the United States Golf Association (USGA) to be the official apparel outfitter for the USGA and the U.S. Open Championships and serve as the championships largest on site apparel supplier. Also in 2011, we entered into a five year agreement with The Royal & Ancient to become an Official Patron of The Open Championship that is played annually on British links golf courses. As part of this agreement, we are outfitting all officials and staff members at The Open Championship and are serving as the championships largest on site apparel retailer. We believe our partnerships with prestigious global tournaments reinforce our brands sporting heritage. Sourcing, Production and Quality We contract for the manufacture of our products and do not own or operate any production facilities. Over 600 different manufacturers worldwide produce our apparel, footwear, accessories and home products, with no one manufacturer providing more than approximately 3% of our total production during Fiscal 2012. We source both finished products and raw materials. Raw materials include fabric, buttons and other trim. Finished products consist of manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to our customers. In Fiscal 2012, less than 2%, by dollar volume, of our products were produced in the U.S., and over 98%, by dollar volume, were produced outside the U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe and South America. See Import Restrictions and other Government Regulations and Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight or labor or a manufacturers inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. Most of our businesses must commit to manufacture our garments before we receive customer orders. We also must commit to purchase fabric from mills well in advance of our sales. If we overestimate our primary customers demand for a particular product or the need for a particular fabric or yarn, we may sell the excess products or garments made from such fabric or yarn in our factory stores or through secondary distribution channels. Suppliers operate under the close supervision of our global manufacturing division and buying agents headquartered in Asia, the Americas and Europe. All products are produced according to our specifications. Production and quality control staff in Asia, the Americas and Europe monitor manufacturing at supplier facilities in order to correct problems prior to shipment of the final product. Procedures have been implemented under our vendor certification and compliance programs, so that quality assurance is focused upon as early as possible in the production process, allowing merchandise to be received at the distribution facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption. 18 Competition Competition is very strong in the segments of the fashion and consumer product industries in which we operate. We compete with numerous designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories, fragrances and home furnishing products, domestic and foreign. Some of our competitors may be significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than us. We compete primarily on the basis of fashion, quality, value and service, which depend on our ability to: anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; maintain favorable brand recognition, loyalty and reputation for quality; develop and produce high quality products that appeal to consumers; appropriately source raw materials at cost effective prices; appropriately price our products; provide strong and effective marketing support; ensure product availability; and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our products at retail. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete We face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. Distribution To facilitate global distribution, our products are shipped from manufacturers to a network of distribution centers around the world for inspection, sorting, packing and delivery to retail and wholesale customers. This network includes the following primary distribution facilities: Geographic Region Facility Type Facility Location FacilityOwnership U.S. Wholesale and Retaildistribution center Greensboro, North Carolina Owned Wholesale distribution center High Point, North Carolina Leased E commerce distribution center(1) High Point, North Carolina Leased Distribution center Chino Hills, California Third party Distribution center Miami, Florida Third party Canada Distribution center Toronto, Ontario Third party Europe Distribution center Parma, Italy(2) Third party Japan Distribution center Yokohama, Japan Third party South Korea Distribution center Gasan, Korea(3) Leased Greater China Distribution centers Hong Kong; China;Singapore; Malaysia; Third party and Taiwan South America Distribution centers Buenos Aires, Argentina; Third party and Montevideo, Uruguay (1) This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for RalphLauren.com, Rugby.com and ClubMonaco.com. (2) This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our European businesses, including our e commerce operations in Europe. (3) Our distribution center in South Korea is in the process of being transitioned to a new leased facility in Bugok, South Korea. All facilities are designed to allow for high density cube storage and value added services, and utilize unit and carton tracking technology to facilitate process control and inventory management. The distribution network is managed through globally integrated information technology systems. 19 Management Information Systems Our management information systems make the design, marketing, manufacturing, importing and distribution of our products more efficient by providing, among other things: comprehensive order processing; production and design information; accounting information; and an enterprise view of information for our design, marketing, manufacturing, importing and distribution functions. The point of sale registers in conjunction with other systems in our stores enable us to track inventory from store receipt to final sale on a real time basis. We believe our merchandising and financial systems, coupled with our point of sale registers and software programs, allow for stock replenishment, effective merchandise planning and real time inventory accounting. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of operations. In the U.S. and Europe, we utilize an automated replenishment system, Logility, to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our Retail segment and wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. We have a collaborative relationship with many of our suppliers that assists us in reducing cash to cash cycles in the management of our inventory. In the U.S. and Europe, we also utilize an automated allocation system, JDA Allocation, to facilitate the flow of inventory for our Retail segment. We are in the process of implementing a new global operating and financial reporting system as part of a multi year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes. The implementation of this global system, scheduled to occur in phases over the next several years, began with the migration of certain of our domestic human resource systems during Fiscal 2011 and continued with transition of certain of our operational and financial systems to the new global operating and financial reporting system during Fiscal 2012. The next phase of this implementation effort involves the migration of certain core areas of our domestic business to the new system, including customer order to cash and global merchandise procurement, during Fiscal 2013. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Implementation of management information systems may negatively impact our business and Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. Wholesale Credit Control We manage our own credit function. We sell our merchandise principally to major department stores and extend credit based on an evaluation of the customers financial capacity and condition, usually without requiring collateral. We monitor credit levels and the financial condition of our customers on a continuing basis to minimize credit risk. We do not factor or underwrite our accounts receivables, or maintain credit insurance to manage the risks of bad debts. Collection and deduction transactional activities are principally provided through a third party service provider. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. Wholesale Backlog We generally receive wholesale orders for apparel products approximately three to five months prior to the time the products are delivered to stores. Such orders are generally subject to broad cancellation rights. As of March 31, 2012, our total backlog was $1.360 billion, compared to $1.391 billion as of April 2, 2011. We expect that substantially all of our backlog orders as of March 31, 2012 will be filled within the next fiscal year. The size of our order backlog depends upon a number of factors, including the timing of the market weeks for our particular 20 lines during which a significant percentage of our orders are received, and the timing of shipments which varies from year to year with consideration for holidays, consumer trends and concept plans. As a consequence, a comparison of the size of our order backlog from period to period may not be necessarily meaningful, nor may it be indicative of eventual shipments. Trademarks We own the RALPH LAUREN, POLO, POLO BY RALPH LAUREN DESIGN and the famous polo player astride a horse trademarks in the U.S. and approximately 100 countries worldwide. Other trademarks that we similarly own include: LAUREN RALPH LAUREN; LAUREN; PURPLE LABEL; BLUE LABEL; BLACK LABEL; PINK PONY; RALPH; RRL; CLUB MONACO; RUGBY; RLX; DENIM & SUPPLY RALPH LAUREN; CHAPS; AMERICAN LIVING; and Various trademarks pertaining to fragrances and cosmetics. Mr. Ralph Lauren has the royalty free right to use as trademarks RALPH LAUREN, DOUBLE RL and RRL in perpetuity in connection with, among other things, beef and living animals. The trademarks DOUBLE RL and RRL are currently used by the Double RL Company, an entity wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. In addition, Mr. Lauren has the right to engage in personal projects involving film or theatrical productions (not including or relating to our business) through RRL Productions, Inc., a company wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. Any activity by these companies has no impact on us. Our trademarks are the subjects of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of items of apparel, apparel related products, home furnishings, restaurant and caf&eacute; services, online services and online publications and beauty products, as well as in connection with retail services, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks are used in connection with the related products and services and the required registration renewals are filed. We regard the license to use the trademarks and our other proprietary rights in and to the trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. As a result of the appeal of our trademarks, our products have been the object of counterfeiting. While we have a broad enforcement program which has been generally effective in protecting our intellectual property rights and limiting the sale of counterfeit products in the U.S. and in most major markets abroad, we face greater challenges with respect to enforcing our rights against trademark infringement in certain parts of Asia. 21 In markets outside of the U.S., our rights to some or all of our trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of our international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks, including POLO and or a representation of a Polo Player Design, which impede our use and registration of our principal trademarks. While such conflicts are common and may arise again from time to time as we continue our international expansion, we have, in general, successfully resolved such conflicts in the past through both legal action and negotiated settlements with third party owners of the conflicting marks (see Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the U.S. and Item 3 Legal Proceedings for further discussion). Although we have not in the past suffered any material restraints or restrictions on doing business in desirable markets, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce trademarks to new markets. Import Restrictions and Other Government Regulations Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the Americas, Europe, and Asia is subject to duties. In addition, most of the countries to which we ship could impose safeguard quotas and duties to protect their local industries from import surges that threaten to create market disruption. The U.S. and other countries may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries) at unfairly traded prices that in such increased quantities as to cause (or threaten) injury to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as anti dumping actions). If dumping is suspected in the U.S., the U.S. Government may self initiate a dumping case on behalf of the U.S. textile industry which could significantly affect our costs. Furthermore, additional duties, generally known as countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the U.S. Government to offset subsidies provided by a foreign government to foreign manufacturers if the importation of such subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a U.S. industry. Legislative proposals have been introduced, which, if adopted, would treat a manipulation by China of the value of its currency as actionable under the anti dumping or countervailing duty laws. We are also subject to other international trade agreements and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, the Caribbean Basin Initiative and other special trade programs. A portion of our imported products are eligible for certain of these duty advantaged programs. In addition, each of the countries in which our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports. Because the U.S. and the other countries in which our products are manufactured and sold may, from time to time, impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges or other import controls or restrictions, including the imposition of safeguard quota, or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates or levels, we maintain a program of intensive monitoring of import restrictions and opportunities. We seek to minimize our potential exposure to import related risks through, among other measures, adjustments in product design and fabrication, shifts of production among countries and manufacturers, as well as through geographical diversification of our sources of supply. As almost all our products are manufactured by foreign suppliers, the enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations, executive action affecting textile agreements, or changes in sourcing patterns resulting from the elimination of quota could adversely affect our operations. On January 1, 2005, the World Trade Organizations 148 member nations lifted all quotas on apparel and textiles. As a result, all textiles and apparel manufactured in each member nation and exported after January 1, 2005 are no longer subject to quota restrictions. Although we generally expect that the 2005 elimination of quotas will result, over the long term, in an overall reduction in the cost of apparel produced abroad, the implementation of any safeguard quota provisions, any anti dumping or countervailing duty actions, or any other actions impacting international trade may result, over the near term, in cost increases and in disruption of the supply chain for certain products categories. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight or labor or a manufacturers inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications and Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. 22 Apparel and other products sold by us are also subject to regulation in the U.S. and other countries by other governmental agencies, including, in the U.S., the Federal Trade Commission, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Consumer Products Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, which imposes new limitations on the permissible amounts of lead and phthalates allowed in childrens products. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability testing, and product safety particularly with respect to products used by children. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with those regulations, as well as applicable federal, state, local, and foreign rules and regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in the current fiscal year or in the near future. Our licensed products, licensing partners, buying/sourcing agents, and the vendors and factories with which we contract with for the manufacture and distribution of our products are also subject to regulation. Our agreements require our licensing partners, buying/sourcing agents, vendors and factories to operate in compliance with all laws and regulations, and we are not aware of any violations which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. Although we have not suffered any material restriction from doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce additional trademarks to new markets. Employees As of March 31, 2012, we had approximately 25,000 employees, both full and part time, consisting of approximately 17,000 in the U.S. and approximately 8,000 in foreign countries. Approximately 30 of our U.S. production and distribution employees in the womenswear business are members of Amalgamated Ladies Garment Cutters Union, Local 10 UNITE (which was previously known as UNITE HERE) under an industry association collective bargaining agreement, which our womenswear subsidiary has adopted. We consider our relations with both our union and non union employees to be good. 23 Executive Officers The following are our current executive officers and their principal recent business experience: Ralph Lauren Age 72 Mr. Lauren has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company since prior to the Companys initial public offering in 1997, and was a member of the Advisory Board of the board of directors of the Companys predecessors since their organization. He founded the Company in 1967 and has provided leadership in the design, marketing, advertising and operational areas since such time. Roger N. Farah Age 59 Mr. Farah has been President, Chief Operating Officer and a director of the Company since April 2000. He was Chairman of the board of directors of Venator Group, Inc. from December 1994 to April 2000, and was Chief Executive Officer of Venator Group, Inc. from December 1994 to August 1999. Mr. Farah is a member of the board of directors of Aetna, Inc. and Progressive Corporation. Jackwyn L. Nemerov Age 60 Ms. Nemerov has been Executive Vice President of the Company since September 2004 and a director of the Company since February 2007. From 1998 to 2002, she was President and Chief Operating Officer of Jones Apparel Group, Inc. Tracey T. Travis Age 49 Ms. Travis has been Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since January 2005. Ms. Travis served as Senior Vice President, Finance of Limited Brands, Inc. from April 2002 until August 2004, and Chief Financial Officer of Intimate Brands, Inc. from April 2001 to April 2002. Prior to that time, Ms. Travis was Chief Financial Officer of the Beverage Can Americas group at American National Can from 1999 to 2001, and held various finance and operations positions at Pepsi Bottling Group from 1989 to 1999. Ms. Travis is a member of the board of directors of the Lincoln Center Theater and Campbell Soup Company. Mitchell A. Kosh Age 62 Mr. Kosh has served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources of the Company since July 2000. He was Senior Vice President of Human Resources of Conseco, Inc., from February 2000 to July 2000. Prior to that time, Mr. Kosh held executive human resource positions with the Venator Group, Inc. starting in 1996. 24 Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are risks associated with an investment in our securities. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading prices of our securities, and or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward looking statements are made in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods or if circumstances change. Risks Related to Our Business The loss of the services of Mr. Ralph Lauren, members of our executive management or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mr. Ralph Laurens leadership in the design, marketing and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our Company. He is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. Our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with Mr. Laurens name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. We depend on the service and management experience of Mr. Lauren and other key executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business. The death or disability of Mr. Lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The loss of the services of Roger Farah, our President and Chief Operating Officer, or one or more of our other key personnel or the concurrent loss of several of these individuals could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not protected by a material amount of key man or similar life insurance covering Mr. Lauren, our other executive officers and certain other members of senior management. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Lauren and our other executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non compete period with respect to Mr. Lauren and certain other executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our Company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. Our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the U.S. and Canada, Europe and Asia and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customers financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customers receivables. In the aggregate, our three largest wholesale customers constituted approximately 25% of our gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of March 31, 2012 and contributed approximately 40% of all wholesale revenues for Fiscal 2012. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or liquidity. See Item 1 Business Wholesale Credit Control. Uncertain economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our operating results and liquidity. The uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. The current political and economic global environment has resulted in continued economic unpredictability, particularly in Europe where there are concerns regarding the increased debt levels of certain countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as the overall stability of the Euro currency. Although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current global economic uncertainty, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers and lenders and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted and may be 25 quite severe. The inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. Deterioration in global financial markets could increase the cost of any future financing or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit facilities. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands and merchandise categories, expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring or integrating select businesses previously held by our licensees and enhancing our operations. Implementation of our strategy involves the continued expansion of our business in Asia, Europe and other international areas. As discussed in Item 1 Business Recent Developments, in Fiscal 2011, we acquired our previously licensed Ralph Lauren branded apparel and accessories business in South Korea. In Fiscal 2010, we acquired our previously licensed Ralph Lauren branded apparel business in the Greater China and Southeast Asia region. We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. Implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our retail distribution network, including our e commerce operations, on a global basis, which is subject to many factors beyond our control. We may not be able to procure, purchase or lease desirable free standing or department store locations, or renew and maintain existing free standing store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable replacement locations. The lease negotiation, as well as the number and timing of new stores and shop in shop locations actually opened during any given period and their associated contribution to net income for the period, depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build out construction activities; (iii) our ability and our landlords ability to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. While we continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors could have an adverse impact on our financial operations. Further, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our e commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores in areas where e commerce sites are introduced may decline due to cannibalization. In Europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the U.S., and we may have difficulty developing and maintaining successful distribution strategies and alliances in certain of the major European countries. In Asia, our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within leading department stores. As we do not yet have significant experience in operating a direct to consumer business in this region and face established competitors, we may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network, and expanding into alternate distribution channels. In addition, certain of the international countries in which we operate, particularly in Asia, have unique operational characteristics that vary from the U.S., including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate and legal requirements, which may pose challenges to the execution and success of our related growth strategies. Further, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as Europe and Asia. Achievement of our growth strategy requires investment in new capabilities, distribution channels and technologies worldwide. These investments may result in short term costs without accompanying current revenues 26 and therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. In addition, we may continue to incur costs in connection with repositioning our business in certain geographic areas, including in the Asia Pacific region. Although we believe that our strategy will lead to long term growth in revenue and profitability, the anticipated benefits may not be fully realized. A data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect our business. We are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the Internet, for a significant portion of our direct to consumer sales, including our e commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. We are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our e commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. As part of our normal course of business, we often collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. There is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the Internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. Despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and or human errors, or other similar events. Any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Since we do not control third party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. We may also incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal and foreign laws regarding unauthorized disclosure of personal information. Our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. We are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including in designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking and distributing our products, processing payments, and accounting for and reporting results. We also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our Retail segment and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. In addition, we have e commerce and other Internet websites in the U.S. and Europe and have plans for new e commerce sites in Asia and other parts of the world. Given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses or power outages. Any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Implementation of management information systems may negatively impact our business. We are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software. We are in the process of implementing a new global operating and financial reporting system as part of a multi year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes. The implementation of this global system, scheduled to occur in phases over the next several years, began with the migration of certain of our domestic human resource systems during Fiscal 2011 and continued with transition of certain of our operational and financial systems to the new global operating and financial reporting system during Fiscal 2012. The next phase of this implementation effort involves the migration of certain core areas of our domestic business to the new system, including customer order to cash settlement and global merchandise procurement, during Fiscal 2013. 27 Implementation of a new management information system involves risks and uncertainties. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design or implementation of a new system, such as the new global operating and financial reporting system currently being implemented, could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing and shipment of our product and delays in the collection of cash from our customers, as well as have an adverse effect on our ability to timely report our financial results, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight or labor or a manufacturers inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 600 foreign manufacturers in various countries. In Fiscal 2012, over 98%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside the U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe and South America. Risks inherent in importing our products include: changes in social, political and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports; the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials; increases in the cost of labor, fuel, travel and transportation; disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man made disasters; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the U.S. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products may also fluctuate and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales. Furthermore, the cost of labor at many of our third party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries such as China continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. The cost of transportation has been increasing as well and it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate if oil prices continue to rise and there is continued significant unrest in the Middle East. We may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight or labor costs through pricing actions or other means. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. Our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 28 Our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. We generally purchase our products in U.S. Dollars. However, we source most of our products overseas. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the U.S. Dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales are primarily derived from sales in foreign currencies, as is a portion of our licensing revenues. These foreign currencies primarily include the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the Hong Kong Dollar, the South Korean Won, the Canadian Dollar, and the British Pound Sterling, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions and the availability of hedging instruments. As such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Management. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results and stock price. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. We have significant undistributed earnings held by our subsidiaries outside the U.S. We currently intend to reinvest the cash and cash equivalents arising from these earnings in order to fund strategic initiatives, working capital requirements and debt repayments (both third party and intercompany) of such foreign subsidiaries. Any future repatriation of such amounts to the U.S. could result in a significant incremental tax liability in the period in which the decision to repatriate is made. Our Company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for some of our products. The loss or significant decline in business of these customers could negatively impact our business. We have exclusive relationships with certain customers for distribution of some of our products, including with Kohls Corporation (Kohls) for our Chaps products. Our arrangement with Kohls makes us dependent on the companys financial and operational health for such products. The loss of this relationship could have an adverse effect on our Wholesale business. Our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry. Several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale net sales. A substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. In the aggregate, our three largest wholesale customers accounted for approximately 40% of our wholesale net sales during Fiscal 2012. There can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations or other ownership changes in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. We typically do not enter into long term agreements with our customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners; or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and 29 operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their private label initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of operations. We are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters and other litigations. Certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our Company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensees or other third parties. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that our Company devotes substantial time and resources to defend itself. Further, changes in governmental regulations both in the U.S., including potential changes in state laws regarding the escheatment of unredeemed gift cards, and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings for further discussion of our Companys legal matters. In addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is currently in the process of amending a number of existing accounting standards governing a variety of areas. Certain of these proposed standards, particularly the proposed standard governing accounting for leases, if and when effective, would likely have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 4 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of proposed amendments to current accounting standards. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include: the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including trade and labor restrictions; compliance with U.S. and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the U.K. Bribery Act, which prohibits U.K. and related companies from any form of bribery; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. We are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S., the European Union, Asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. 30 Our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. We have operations, including retail, distribution and warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural disasters such as severe weather and geological events that could disrupt our operations. In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in these locations. The occurrence of natural events may result in sudden disruptions in business conditions of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. Such disruptions could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the U.S. We believe that our trademarks, intellectual property and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti counterfeiting activities worldwide. Significant counterfeiting of our products continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some trademarks that include Polo and or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. See Item 1 Business Trademarks, and Item 3 Legal Proceedings. Our business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. We require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor, environmental or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturers or licensing partners labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate in the U.S., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third party manufacturing capacity. We cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. See Item 1 Business Sourcing, Production and Quality. We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long term contracts with any manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. In addition, we rely on a number of owned and independently operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. As such, our ability to 31 meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of our distribution centers. If any of our distribution centers were closed or were to become inoperable for any reason, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our retail stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. These disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. The risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partners business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partners ability to: obtain capital; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. Although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. While we have significant control over our licensing partners products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. Changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. See Item 1 Business Our Licensing Segment. Failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. Although we believe in most circumstances we could replace existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. See Item 1 Business Our Licensing Segment. The voting shares of our Companys stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. As of March 31, 2012, Mr. Ralph Lauren, or entities controlled by the Lauren family, owned approximately 73% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our Company. Mr. Lauren also serves as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and we employ members of the Lauren family. From time to time, and as approved or authorized by our Board of Directors, we may have other business dealings with Mr. Lauren, or members of the Lauren family or entities affiliated with Mr. Lauren or the Lauren family. As a result of his stock ownership and position in our Company, Mr. Lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our Class B common stock directors, voting separately as a class, and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. The trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance. Our business planning process is designed to maximize our long term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe that this longer term focus is in the best interests of our Company and our stockholders. At the same time, however, we recognize that from time to time it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. While we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we 32 assume no responsibility to update any of our forward looking statements at such times or otherwise. If and when we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts or others, the market price of our securities could be affected. Investors who rely on the predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete The downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessories, jewelry, watches, and home products industries, including, among others: general business conditions; economic downturns; employment levels; downturns in the stock market; interest rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; increases in fuel prices; taxation; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our businesses and our revenues and profits. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Global Economic Developments for further discussion. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely affect our business, revenues and profits. We face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. We face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion oriented apparel, footwear, accessories and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than us. We compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty and reputation for quality; developing and maintaining innovative, high quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers; appropriately sourcing raw materials at cost effective prices; appropriately pricing products; anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; 33 providing strong and effective marketing support; retaining and recruiting key employees; creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores; maintaining and growing market share; and protecting our intellectual property. We also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, accessories (including footwear), home and other of our product categories through the Internet. Although we sell our products through the Internet, increased competition in the worldwide apparel, accessories and home product industries from Internet based competitors could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. Any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. The industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. Our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, current economic conditions and weather conditions, among other factors. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow moving inventory, which may harm our business and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1 Business Sourcing, Production and Quality. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 2. Properties. We lease space for our retail stores and showrooms, and warehouse and office space in various domestic and international locations. We do not own any real property except for a distribution facility in Greensboro, North Carolina and a parcel of land adjacent to the facility, and retail stores in Southampton, New York and Nantucket, Massachusetts. We believe that our existing facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition and are adequate for our present level of operations. 34 The following table sets forth information with respect to our key properties: Location Use ApproximateSq. Ft. Current Lease TermExpiration Greensboro, NC Wholesale and retail distribution facility 1,500,000 Owned High Point, NC Retail e commerce call center and distribution facility 363,000 January 31, 2023 High Point, NC Wholesale distribution facility 343,000 December 31, 2022 625 Madison Avenue, NYC Corporate offices and Home showroom 356,000 December 31, 2019 650 Madison Avenue, NYC Executive, corporate offices and design studio, Mens showrooms 276,000 December 31, 2024 Lyndhurst, NJ Corporate and retail administrative offices 173,000 December 31, 2019 550 7th Avenue, NYC Corporate offices, design studio and Womens showrooms 84,000 December 31, 2018 Geneva, Switzerland European corporate offices(1) 60,000 March 31, 2013 Hong Kong, China Asia Pacific corporate administrative offices 47,000 October 31, 2015 London, UK Retail flagship store 40,000 July 4, 2021 888 Madison Avenue, NYC Retail flagship store 37,900 August 31, 2027 867 Madison Avenue, NYC Retail flagship store 27,700 December 31, 2013 Paris, France Retail flagship store 25,700 May 31, 2018 Tokyo, Japan Retail flagship store 21,000 December 31, 2020 (1) In March 2012, we entered into a new lease agreement for an office facility in Geneva, Switzerland, which expires in April 2026. The new facility is approximately 107,000 square feet and will replace our existing corporate offices in Europe. As of March 31, 2012, we operated 379 retail stores, totaling approximately 2.9 million square feet. We anticipate that we will be able to extend our retail store leases, as well as those leases for our non retail facilities, which expire in the near future on satisfactory terms or relocate to desirable locations. We generally lease our retail stores for initial periods ranging from 5 to 10 years, with renewal options. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Derivative Action On November 22, 2011, a shareholder derivative action was filed by City Pension Fund for Firefighters and Police Officers in the City of Pembroke Pines (the Plaintiff), an alleged shareholder purportedly acting on behalf of the Company, in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, naming the Company, as a nominal defendant, and naming each of the members of the Board of Directors and certain members of Company management as defendants. The complaint alleges, among other claims, breaches of fiduciary duty and waste of corporate assets by the Companys directors for permitting excessive compensation to, and alleged related party transactions with, the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and certain other executives, and unjust enrichment by these executives. The Plaintiff seeks damages on behalf of the Company in an unspecified amount sustained from the alleged breaches of fiduciary duty and waste of corporate assets and seeks disgorgement of excessive compensation and benefits of related party transactions. The Plaintiff also demands it be awarded the costs and disbursements of the derivative action, including reasonable attorneys fees. On January 12, 2012, the Company and defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 35 Wathne Imports Litigation On August 19, 2005, Wathne Imports, Ltd. (Wathne), Ralph Laurens then domestic licensee for luggage and handbags, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court in the Southern District of New York against our Company and Mr. Ralph Lauren, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, asserting, among other things, federal trademark law violations, breach of contract, breach of obligations of good faith and fair dealing, fraud and negligent misrepresentation. The complaint sought, among other relief, injunctive relief, compensatory damages in excess of $250 million and punitive damages of not less than $750 million. On September 13, 2005, Wathne withdrew this complaint from the U.S. District Court and filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County, making substantially the same allegations and claims (excluding the federal trademark claims), and seeking similar relief. On February 1, 2006, the Court granted our motion to dismiss all of the causes of action, including the cause of action against Mr. Lauren, except for breach of contract related claims, and denied Wathnes motion for a preliminary injunction. Following some discovery, we moved for summary judgment on the remaining claims. Wathne cross moved for partial summary judgment. In an April 11, 2008 Decision and Order, the Court granted Ralph Laurens summary judgment motion to dismiss most of the claims against our Company, and denied Wathnes cross motion for summary judgment. Wathne appealed the dismissal of its claims to the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court. Following a hearing on May 19, 2009, the Appellate Division issued a Decision and Order on June 9, 2009 which, in large part, affirmed the lower Courts ruling. On January 23, 2012, the Court granted our motion to exclude Wathnes proposed damages report thereby limiting Wathnes presently asserted damages theory and the amount of damages that may be asserted to a jury. The Court has permitted Wathne to revise its alleged damages analysis. Wathne has appealed the order of exclusion. While a trial had been scheduled for April 2012, at this time it is uncertain when the matter will be reached for trial. We intend to continue to contest the remaining claims in this lawsuit vigorously. Management does not expect that the ultimate resolution of this matter will have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. Other Matters We are involved, from time to time, in litigation, other legal claims and proceedings involving matters associated with or incidental to our business, including, among other things, matters involving credit card fraud, trademark and other intellectual property, licensing, and employee relations. We believe that the resolution of currently pending matters will not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. However, our assessment of the current litigation or other legal claims could change in light of the discovery of facts not presently known or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which are not in accord with managements evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation or claims. 36 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our Class A common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol RL. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of the Class A common stock, as reported on the NYSE Composite Tape, and the cash dividends per common share declared for each quarterly period in our two most recent fiscal years: Market Price ofClass ACommon Stock DividendsDeclared perCommon Share High Low Fiscal 2012: First Quarter $ 136.50 $ 114.60 $ 0.20 Second Quarter 154.62 105.11 0.20 Third Quarter 164.55 121.30 0.20 Fourth Quarter 182.48 136.92 0.20 Fiscal 2011: First Quarter $ 95.59 $ 71.14 $ 0.10 Second Quarter 91.76 71.12 0.10 Third Quarter 115.45 89.66 0.10 Fourth Quarter 128.56 102.33 0.20 Since 2003, we have maintained a regular quarterly cash dividend program on our common stock. On February 8, 2011, our Board of Directors approved an increase to our quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.10 per share to $0.20 per share. Approximately $74 million was recorded as a reduction to retained earnings during Fiscal 2012 in connection with our dividends. As of May 18, 2012, there were 948 holders of record of our Class A common stock and 16 holders of record of our Class B common stock. All of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock are owned by Mr. Ralph Lauren, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and entities controlled by the Lauren family, and are convertible at any time into shares of Class A common stock on a one for one basis. During Fiscal 2011, Mr. Lauren converted 11.3 million shares of Class B common stock into an equal number of shares of Class A common stock pursuant to the terms of the security. The following table sets forth the repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012: Total Number ofSharesPurchased(1) AveragePricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plans orPrograms(1) Approximate DollarValue of SharesThat May Yet bePurchased Under thePlans or Programs (millions) January 1, 2012 to January 28, 2012 $ $ 577 January 29, 2012 to February 25, 2012 577 February 26, 2012 to March 31, 2012 135 (2) 176.41 577 135 (1) On May 24, 2011, our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our existing common stock repurchase program that will allow us to repurchase up to an additional $500 million of Class A common stock. (2) Represents shares surrendered to, or withheld by, the Company in satisfaction of withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of an award issued under the 1997 Long Term Stock Incentive Plan. 37 The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return (stock price appreciation plus dividends) on our Class A common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors 500 Index, Standard & Poors Retail group, and a peer group index of companies that we believe are closest to ours (the Peer Group) for the period from March 30, 2007, the last trading day of our 2007 fiscal year, through March 30, 2012, the last trading day of our 2012 fiscal year. Our Peer Group consists of Burberry Group PLC, Coach, Inc., Compagnie Financi&egrave;re Richemont SA, The Est&eacute;e Lauder Companies Inc., Hermes International, The Jones Group Inc., Kenneth Cole Productions, Inc., Liz Claiborne, Inc., Luxottica Group, LVMH, PVH Corp., PPR SA, Tiffany & Co., Tods S.p.A., V.F. Corporation and The Warnaco Group, Inc. All calculations for foreign companies in our Peer Group are performed using the local foreign issue of such companies. The returns are calculated by assuming an investment in the Class A common stock and each index of $100 on March 31, 2007, with all dividends reinvested. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Ralph Lauren Corporation, the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Retailing Index, and a Peer Group * $100 invested on 3/31/07 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending March 31. Copyright&copy; 2012 S&P, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 38 Item 6. Selected Financial Data See the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Information, and specifically Selected Financial Information appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) should be read together with our audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We utilize a 52 53 week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to March 31. As such, Fiscal 2012 ended on March 31, 2012 and reflected a 52 week period; Fiscal 2011 ended on April 2, 2011 and reflected a 52 week period; and Fiscal 2010 ended on April 3, 2010 and reflected a 53 week period. INTRODUCTION MD&A is provided as a supplement to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition and liquidity, changes in our financial condition, and results of our operations. MD&A is organized as follows: Overview. This section provides a general description of our business, global economic developments, and a summary of our financial performance for Fiscal 2012. In addition, this section includes a discussion of recent developments and transactions affecting comparability that we believe are important in understanding our results of operations and financial condition, and in anticipating future trends. Results of operations. This section provides an analysis of our results of operations for Fiscal 2012, Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010. Financial condition and liquidity. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows for Fiscal 2012, Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, as well as a discussion of our financial condition and liquidity as of March 31, 2012. The discussion of our financial condition and liquidity includes (i) a discussion of our financial position compared to the prior fiscal year end, (ii) the available financial capacity under our credit facilities, (iii) a summary of our key debt compliance measures and (iv) a summary of our outstanding debt and commitments as of March 31, 2012. Market risk management. This section discusses how we manage our risk exposures related to foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and our investments, as well as the underlying market conditions as of March 31, 2012. Critical accounting policies. This section discusses accounting policies considered to be important to our financial condition and results of operations, which require significant judgment and estimation on the part of management in their application. In addition, all of our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 3 to our accompanying audited consolidated financial statements. Recently issued accounting standards. This section discusses the potential impact to our reported financial condition and results of operations of certain accounting standards that have been recently issued or proposed. OVERVIEW Our Business Our Company is a global leader in the design, marketing and distribution of premium lifestyle products including mens, womens and childrens apparel, accessories (including footwear), fragrances and home furnishings. Our long standing reputation and distinctive image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, brands and international markets. Our brand names include Polo Ralph Lauren, Purple Label, Ralph Lauren Womens Collection, Black Label, Blue Label, Lauren by Ralph Lauren, RRL, RLX Ralph Lauren, Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren, Rugby, Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Childrenswear, American Living, Chaps and Club Monaco, among others. 39 We classify our businesses into three segments: Wholesale, Retail and Licensing. Our Wholesale business, representing approximately 47% of Fiscal 2012 net revenues, consists of wholesale channel sales made principally to major department stores and specialty stores located throughout the U.S., Canada, Europe, Asia and South America. Our Retail business, representing approximately 50% of Fiscal 2012 net revenues, consists of retail channel sales directly to consumers through retail stores located throughout the U.S., Canada, Europe, Asia and South America; through concessions based shop within shops located primarily in Asia; and through our retail e commerce channel, which includes our domestic and European sites. During Fiscal 2012, we expanded our e commerce presence in Europe by launching new retail e commerce sites in France (which also services Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands) and Germany (which also services Austria), as well as in the U.S. where we launched a new retail e commerce site for our Club Monaco business. Our licensing business, representing approximately 3% of Fiscal 2012 net revenues, consists of royalty based arrangements under which we license the right to third parties to use our various trademarks in connection with the manufacture and sale of designated products, such as apparel, eyewear and fragrances, in specified geographical areas for specified periods. Approximately 38% of our Fiscal 2012 net revenues were earned in international regions outside of the U.S. See Note 22 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for a summary of net revenues by segment and geographic location. Our business is typically affected by seasonal trends, with higher levels of wholesale sales in our second and fourth quarters and higher retail sales in our second and third quarters. These trends result primarily from the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and key vacation travel, back to school and holiday shopping periods in the Retail segment. Global Economic Developments The state of the global economy continues to influence the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This affects our business as it is highly dependent on consumer demand for our products. The current political and economic global environments, most notably in the U.S., Europe and Japan, have resulted in significant macroeconomic risks including high rates of unemployment, high fuel prices, currency volatility and continued global economic uncertainty driven in part by the European debt crisis, among other factors. These risks, combined with expectations of slower global economic growth and increased austerity measures, have adversely affected consumer and business sentiment resulting in a highly promotional global retail environment. Despite the challenging economic environment, we continued to experience strong reported revenue growth throughout Fiscal 2012. However, as a result of the current economic environment and decrease in consumer confidence in Europe, current trends show softness in certain of our European businesses. If the global macroeconomic environment, including the economic situation in Europe, continues to be weak or worsens, the related constrained level of worldwide consumer spending and modified consumption behavior we expect will have a negative effect on our sales and margin growth rates for Fiscal 2013. In addition, we continued to experience the cost of goods inflation that began during the second half of Fiscal 2011 and peaked during Fiscal 2012 as a result of increased raw material, transportation and labor costs, as well as labor shortages in certain regions where our products are manufactured. The impact of such cost of goods inflation has been most pronounced on our Wholesale operations and was mitigated to some extent on a consolidated basis by targeted pricing actions and a more favorable channel mix during Fiscal 2012. While the peak costs of goods inflation levels have subsided and we will be anniversarying in Fiscal 2013 the higher cost benchmarks created in the prior year, sourcing pressures will continue to have an impact on the cost of our products and the related gross profit percentages for the foreseeable future. We continue to monitor these risks and evaluate our operating strategies in order to adjust to changes in economic conditions, including increases in global labor rates and commodity pricing. For a detailed discussion of significant risk factors that have the potential to cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 40 Summary of Financial Performance Results of Operations In Fiscal 2012, we reported net revenues of $6.860 billion, net income attributable to Ralph Lauren Corporation (RLC) of $681.0 million and net income per diluted share attributable to RLC of $7.13. This compares to net revenues of $5.660 billion, net income attributable to RLC of $567.6 million and net income per diluted share attributable to RLC of $5.75 in Fiscal 2011. Our operating performance for Fiscal 2012 was driven by 21.2% revenue growth, primarily due to increased comparable global retail store sales and the inclusion of revenues from our South Korea business acquired on January 1, 2011, as well as higher revenues from our global wholesale businesses and the net favorable foreign currency effects. Our gross margin percentage declined by 30 basis points to 58.3% in Fiscal 2012, primarily due to substantial sourcing cost increases experienced across our global businesses, particularly in our Wholesale segment, partially mitigated by Company wide targeted pricing actions. The decrease in gross margin percentage was also offset in part by a more favorable geographic and channel mix driven by our retail businesses in Asia (including our recently acquired business in South Korea). Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased largely due to higher compensation related costs and additional expenses to support our growth in sales, as well as our new business initiatives and recent acquisitions. Net income attributable to RLC increased in Fiscal 2012 as compared to Fiscal 2011, primarily due to a $194.3 million increase in operating income, partially offset by a $76.3 million increase in the provision for income taxes. The increase in the provision for income taxes was driven by the overall increase in pretax income, along with a 170 basis point increase in our effective tax rate. Net income per diluted share attributable to RLC also increased due to the effect of higher net income coupled with lower weighted average diluted shares outstanding during Fiscal 2012. Financial Condition and Liquidity Our financial position reflects the overall relative strength of our business results. We ended Fiscal 2012 in a net cash and investments position (cash and cash equivalents plus short term and non current investments, less total debt) of $1.013 billion, compared to $838.6 million as of the end of Fiscal 2011. The increase in our net cash and investments position was primarily due to our operating cash flows, partially offset by our treasury stock repurchases and capital expenditures during Fiscal 2012. Our equity increased to $3.653 billion as of March 31, 2012 compared to $3.305 billion as of April 2, 2011, primarily due to our net income and equity issuances made pursuant to stock based compensation arrangements, partially offset by our share repurchase activity during Fiscal 2012. We generated $885.3 million of cash from operations during Fiscal 2012, compared to $688.7 million during Fiscal 2011. The increase in operating cash flows primarily relates to the increase in net income before non cash expenses and lower income tax payments due to timing during Fiscal 2012, partially offset by changes in working capital. We used some of our cash availability to support our common stock repurchase program, to reinvest in our business through capital spending and to pay dividends on our common stock. In particular, we used $419.4 million to repurchase 3.4 million shares of Class A common stock, including shares surrendered for tax withholdings. We also used $272.2 million for capital expenditures primarily associated with our global retail store expansion, construction and renovation of department store shop in shops, and investments in our facilities and technological infrastructure, and made cash dividend payments of $74.3 million. Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations and Financial Condition The comparability of our operating results for the three fiscal years presented herein has been affected by certain transactions, including: Acquisitions that occurred in Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010. In particular, we completed the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition on January 1, 2011 and the Asia Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition on December 31, 2009 (both as defined in Note 5 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements); The assumption of control over the distribution of our previously licensed bedding and bath business on May 1, 2011 (see Recent Developments); 41 Certain pretax charges related to asset impairments and restructurings during the fiscal years presented; and A net gain related to a partial extinguishment of our Euro denominated 4.5% notes in Fiscal 2010. A summary of the effect of certain of these items on pretax income for each applicable fiscal year presented is noted below (references to Notes are to the notes to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements): Fiscal Years Ended March 31,2012 April 2,2011 April 3,2010 (millions) Impairments of assets (see Note 11) $ (2.2 ) $ (2.5 ) $ (6.6 ) Restructuring charges (see Note 12) (12.4 ) (2.6 ) (6.9 ) Gain on extinguishment of debt (see Note 14)(a) 4.1 $ (14.6 ) $ (5.1 ) $ (9.4 ) (a) Reported within interest and other income, net in our consolidated statement of operations. The comparability of our operating results has also been affected by the inclusion of a 53rd week in Fiscal 2010, which resulted in incremental revenues of approximately $70 million and additional net income of approximately $13 million in Fiscal 2010. The following discussion of operating results highlights, as necessary, the significant changes in operating results arising from these items and transactions. However, unusual items or transactions may occur in any period. Accordingly, investors and other financial statement users individually should consider the types of events and transactions that have affected operating trends. Recent Developments Discontinuance of American Living During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2012, we decided with our wholesale partner J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (JCPenney) to discontinue the majority of the products sold under the American Living brand created for and exclusively sold to JCPenney, effective for the Fall 2012 wholesale selling season. As a result of this decision, we recorded pretax restructuring charges of approximately $3 million primarily related to severance actions during Fiscal 2012. The discontinuance of these American Living product lines is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated or segment results. Asia Pacific Restructuring Plan In May 2011, we initiated a restructuring plan to reposition and upgrade our existing distribution network and merchandising operations in the Asia Pacific region, which includes mainland China, Macau, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, Japan and South Korea (the Asia Pacific Restructuring Plan). This plan includes a reduction in workforce and the closure of certain retail stores and concession shops that do not support the new merchandising strategy. Actions related to the Asia Pacific Restructuring Plan resulted in pretax charges of approximately $6 million in Fiscal 2012. Assumption of Bedding and Bath Operations In May 2011, the license for our Lauren by Ralph Lauren bedding and bath products previously held by WestPoint Home, Inc. expired in accordance with the underlying agreement and we assumed control over this wholesale business. No significant payment or other consideration was provided related to this license expiration. WestPoint Home, Inc. will remain the exclusive licensee for our Lauren basic bedding program, which includes utility and blanket products. South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition On January 1, 2011, in connection with the transition of the Ralph Lauren branded apparel and accessories business in South Korea (the Ralph Lauren South Korea business) from a licensed to a wholly owned operation, 42 we acquired certain net assets (including inventory) and employees from Doosan Corporation (Doosan) in exchange for an initial payment of approximately $25 million plus an additional aggregate payment of approximately $22 million (the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition). Doosan was our licensee for the Ralph Lauren South Korea business. We funded the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition with available cash on hand. In conjunction with the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition, we also entered into a transition services agreement with Doosan for the provision of certain financial and information systems services, which was subsequently extended through June 30, 2012. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011 The following table summarizes our results of operations and expresses the percentage relationship to net revenues of certain financial statement captions: Fiscal Years Ended March 31,2012 April 2,2011 $Change % / bpsChange (millions, except per share data) Net revenues $ 6,859.5 $ 5,660.3 $ 1,199.2 21.2% Cost of goods sold(a) (2,861.4 ) (2,342.0 ) (519.4 ) 22.2% Gross profit 3,998.1 3,318.3 679.8 20.5% Gross profit as % of net revenues 58.3 % 58.6 % (30) bps Selling, general and administrative expenses(a) (2,915.2 ) (2,442.7 ) (472.5 ) 19.3% SG&A expenses as % of net revenues 42.5 % 43.2 % (70) bps Amortization of intangible assets (28.9 ) (25.4 ) (3.5 ) 13.8% Impairments of assets (2.2 ) (2.5 ) 0.3 (12.0%) Restructuring charges (12.4 ) (2.6 ) (9.8 ) NM Operating income 1,039.4 845.1 194.3 23.0% Operating income as % of net revenues 15.2 % 14.9 % 30 bps Foreign currency gains (losses) (1.5 ) (1.4 ) (0.1 ) 7.1% Interest expense (24.5 ) (18.3 ) (6.2 ) 33.9% Interest and other income, net 11.0 7.7 3.3 42.9% Equity in income (loss) of equity method investees (9.3 ) (7.7 ) (1.6 ) 20.8% Income before provision for income taxes 1,015.1 825.4 189.7 23.0% Provision for income taxes (334.1 ) (257.8 ) (76.3 ) 29.6% Effective tax rate (b) 32.9 % 31.2 % 170 bps Net income attributable to RLC $ 681.0 $ 567.6 $ 113.4 20.0% Net income per common share attributable to RLC: Basic $ 7.35 $ 5.91 $ 1.44 24.4% Diluted $ 7.13 $ 5.75 $ 1.38 24.0% (a) Includes total depreciation expense of $196.3 million and $168.7 million for Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011, respectively. (b) Effective tax rate is calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before provision for income taxes. NM Not meaningful. Net Revenues. Net revenues increased by $1.199 billion, or 21.2%, to $6.860 billion in Fiscal 2012 from $5.660 billion in Fiscal 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher revenues from our global retail and wholesale businesses, which included favorable foreign currency effects. Excluding the effect of foreign currency, net revenues increased by $1.095 billion, or 19.3%. 43 Net revenues for our three business segments are provided below: Fiscal Years Ended $Change %Change March 31,2012 April 2,2011 (millions) Net Revenues: Wholesale $ 3,246.5 $ 2,777.6 $ 468.9 16.9 % Retail 3,432.3 2,704.2 728.1 26.9 % Licensing 180.7 178.5 2.2 1.2 % Total net revenues $ 6,859.5 $ 5,660.3 $ 1,199.2 21.2 % Wholesale net revenues The net increase primarily reflects: a $350 million net increase in our domestic businesses primarily due to increased menswear revenues, including sales from our newly launched Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren product line, higher childrenswear revenues, and incremental Home product revenues related to the assumption of control over the distribution of our previously licensed bedding and bath business; a $128 million net increase in our European businesses on a constant currency basis primarily driven by increased revenues from our menswear, womenswear and accessories (including footwear) product lines, reflecting new product offerings and an increased presence at department stores. This sales growth was achieved despite a continued softening in the specialty store business, particularly in Southern Europe; and a $41 million net increase in revenues due to favorable foreign currency effects primarily related to the strengthening of the Euro and the Yen, both in comparison to the U.S. Dollar during Fiscal 2012. These increases were partially offset by: a $42 million net decrease related to our Japanese businesses on a constant currency basis, including the effect of a business model shift to the Retail concessions based channel; and an $8 million net decrease related to our businesses in the Greater China and Southeast Asia region, which is comprised of China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand, on a constant currency basis. This net decrease was primarily due to the elimination of certain third party distribution in connection with our repositioning efforts in this region. Retail net revenues For purposes of the discussion of Retail operating performance below, we refer to the measure comparable store sales. Comparable store sales refer to the growth of sales in stores that are open for at least one full fiscal year. Sales for stores that are closing during a fiscal year are excluded from the calculation of comparable store sales. Sales for stores that are either relocated, enlarged (as defined by gross square footage expansion of 25% or greater) or generally closed for 30 or more consecutive days for renovation are also excluded from the calculation of comparable store sales until such stores have been in their new location or in a newly renovated state for at least one full fiscal year. Comparable store sales information includes our Ralph Lauren stores (including concession based shop within shops and Rugby stores), Club Monaco stores, factory stores and RalphLauren.com (including Rugby.com). The net increase primarily reflects: a $429 million aggregate net increase in non comparable store sales primarily driven by: a net increase of approximately $257 million related to a number of new store openings within the past twelve months, as well as our recently launched European retail e commerce sites in the United Kingdom, France and Germany. This increase includes an aggregate favorable foreign currency effect of approximately $23 million, primarily related to the strengthening of the Yen and the Euro, both in comparison to the U.S. Dollar during Fiscal 2012. Excluding those stores and shops assumed in connection with the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition, there was a net increase in our global brick and mortar average store count of 18 stores and concession shops as compared to Fiscal 2011. Our total brick and mortar store count as of March 31, 2012 included 379 freestanding stores and 474 concession shops, including 6 stores and 172 concession shops in South Korea; and 44 an increase of approximately $172 million related to the inclusion of a full year of revenues from stores and concession based shop within shops assumed in connection with the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition, which occurred on January 1, 2011. a $227 million aggregate net increase in comparable brick and mortar store sales primarily driven by our global factory stores. This increase includes an aggregate favorable foreign currency effect of approximately $39 million primarily related to the strengthening of the Yen and the Euro, both in comparison to the U.S. Dollar during Fiscal 2012. The increase in Retail net revenues was also due to a $72 million increase in RalphLauren.com sales. Comparable store sales are presented below: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012 Increases in comparable store sales as reported: Ralph Lauren store sales 8% Club Monaco store sales 18% Factory store sales 13% RalphLauren.com sales 29% Total increase in comparable store sales as reported 14% Increases in comparable store sales excluding the effect of foreign currency: Ralph Lauren store sales 4% Club Monaco store sales 18% Factory store sales 12% RalphLauren.com sales 29% Total increase in comparable store sales excluding the effect of foreign currency 12% Licensing revenue The net increase primarily reflects: a $10 million increase in domestic product licensing royalties, primarily related to higher apparel and accessories related royalties. The above net increase was partially offset by: a $5 million decrease in international licensing royalties, primarily due to the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition; and a $3 million decrease in Home licensing revenues, primarily due to the transition of our previously licensed bedding and bath business to directly controlled operations as of May 1, 2011. Gross Profit. Cost of goods sold includes the expenses incurred to acquire and produce inventory for sale, including product costs, freight in and import costs, as well as changes in reserves for shrinkage and inventory realizability. The costs of selling merchandise, including those associated with preparing the merchandise for sale, such as picking, packing, warehousing and order charges, are included in SG&A expenses. Gross profit increased by $679.8 million, or 20.5%, to $3.998 billion in Fiscal 2012 from $3.318 billion in Fiscal 2011. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues decreased by 30 basis points to 58.3% in Fiscal 2012 from 58.6% in Fiscal 2011. This decrease was primarily due to substantial sourcing cost increases experienced across our global businesses, particularly in our Wholesale segment, partially mitigated by Company wide targeted pricing actions. The decline in gross profit as a percentage of net revenues was also offset in part by a more favorable geographic and channel mix and stronger levels of full price sell throughs driven by our retail business in Asia. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues is dependent upon a variety of factors, including changes in the relative sales mix among distribution channels, changes in the mix of products sold, the timing and level of promotional activities, foreign currency exchange rates, and fluctuations in material costs. These factors, among others, may cause gross profit as a percentage of net revenues to fluctuate from year to year. 45 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. SG&A expenses primarily include compensation and benefits, marketing, distribution, bad debts, information technology, facilities, legal and other costs associated with finance and administration. SG&A expenses increased by $472.5 million, or 19.3%, to $2.915 billion in Fiscal 2012 from $2.443 billion Fiscal 2011. This increase included an unfavorable foreign currency effect of approximately $52 million, primarily related to the performance of the Euro and the Yen, both in comparison to the U.S. dollar during Fiscal 2012. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 42.5% in Fiscal 2012 from 43.2% in Fiscal 2011. The 70 basis point improvement was primarily due to operating leverage related to the increase in net revenues, which more than offset the increase in operating expenses attributable to our recent acquisitions and new business initiatives and the shift in channel mix to a greater Retail concentration. The $472.5 million increase in SG&A expenses was primarily driven by: higher compensation related costs of approximately $145 million, primarily due to higher incentive and stock based compensation expenses in accordance with our shareholder approved compensation plans; additional SG&A expenses of approximately $101 million related to the inclusion of a full year of costs associated with our business in South Korea which was acquired on January 1, 2011; an approximate $60 million increase in rent and occupancy costs primarily to support the ongoing growth of our international businesses, including an increase in concessions based rent expense largely due to a business model change in Japan; increased shipping, warehousing and distribution expenses of approximately $34 million to support increased sales; an approximate $24 million increase in depreciation expense primarily associated with global retail store expansion; increased consulting costs of approximately $24 million, including costs relating to the new global information technology systems; increased brand related marketing and advertising costs of approximately $17 million; and increased SG&A expenses of approximately $12 million related to the assumption of control over our previously licensed bedding and bath business in May 2011. Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets increased by $3.5 million, or 13.8%, to $28.9 million in Fiscal 2012 from $25.4 million in Fiscal 2011. This increase was primarily due to the amortization of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition at the end of the third quarter of Fiscal 2011. Impairments of Assets. During Fiscal 2012, we recognized a non cash impairment charge of $2.2 million, primarily to reduce the net carrying value of the long lived assets of certain underperforming European retail stores to their estimated fair values. In Fiscal 2011, we recognized a non cash impairment charge of $2.5 million to reduce the net carrying values of certain retail store and concession shop long lived assets in the Asia Pacific region that were determined to no longer be used over the intended service period to their estimated fair value. See Note 11 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these charges. Restructuring Charges. During Fiscal 2012, we recorded restructuring charges of $12.4 million, principally related to employee termination costs and costs associated with the closure of certain retail stores and concession shops in connection with the Asia Pacific Restructuring Plan, as well as severance actions related to the planned discontinuance of the majority of the products sold under the American Living brand at JCPenney. Restructuring charges of $2.6 million for Fiscal 2011 primarily related to employee termination costs associated with our wholesale operations and the closing of a warehouse facility, partially offset by reversals of reserves deemed no longer necessary largely associated with previously closed retail stores. See Note 12 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Operating Income. Operating income increased by $194.3 million, or 23.0%, to $1.039 billion in Fiscal 2012 from $845.1 million in Fiscal 2011. Operating income as a percentage of net revenues increased 30 basis points, to 15.2% in Fiscal 2012 from 14.9% in Fiscal 2011, as the decrease in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues more than offset the decline in gross profit margin, as previously discussed. 46 Operating income and margin for our three business segments is provided below: Fiscal Years Ended $Change MarginChange March 31, 2012 April 2, 2011 OperatingIncome OperatingMargin OperatingIncome OperatingMargin (millions) (millions) (millions) Segment: Wholesale $ 666.4 20.5 % $ 612.3 22.0 % $ 54.1 (150) bps Retail 557.8 16.3 % 387.8 14.3 % 170.0 200 bps Licensing 112.2 62.1 % 108.3 60.7 % 3.9 140 bps 1,336.4 1,108.4 228.0 Unallocated corporate expenses (284.7 ) (262.1 ) (22.6 ) Unallocated legal and restructuring charges, net (12.3 ) (1.2 ) (11.1 ) Total operating income $ 1,039.4 15.2 % $ 845.1 14.9 % $ 194.3 30 bps Wholesale operating margin decreased by 150 basis points, primarily due to lower gross profit margins in the U.S. and Europe, reflecting significant cost of goods increases driven primarily by raw material increases, which more than offset targeted pricing actions. While SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues was negatively affected by additional costs incurred to support our new Wholesale business initiatives (including the recent assumption of our previously licensed bedding and bath business and the worldwide launch of our new Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren product line), this impact was offset by improved operating leverage on global Wholesale revenues. Retail operating margin increased by 200 basis points, primarily as a result of higher gross profit margins due to a more favorable geographic mix and stronger full price sell throughs from our retail businesses in Asia as well as the effect of targeted global pricing actions, which more than offset cost of goods increases and elevated domestic promotional activity during Fiscal 2012. The improvement in operating margin also reflected a decline in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues as increased operating expenses to support the ongoing growth of our international retail business (largely in South Korea) were more than offset by improved operating leverage. Licensing operating margin increased by 140 basis points, primarily as a result of higher revenues, as well as lower net costs associated with the transition of our licensed businesses to wholly owned operations driven by our recently acquired business in South Korea and our previously licensed Home bedding and bath business. Unallocated corporate expenses increased by $22.6 million, primarily as a result of an increase in compensation related expenses (including stock based compensation), rent and occupancy costs, and information technology related costs. Unallocated legal and restructuring charges, net for Fiscal 2012 included net unallocated restructuring charges of $12.4 million, partially offset by $0.1 million of net reversals of legal reserves deemed no longer necessary. Fiscal 2011 included net unallocated restructuring charges of $2.6 million that were partially offset by $1.4 million of net reversals of legal reserves deemed no longer necessary. Foreign Currency Gains (Losses). The effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations resulted in a loss of $1.5 million in Fiscal 2012, compared to a loss of $1.4 million in Fiscal 2011. The slightly higher foreign currency losses were primarily due to the timing of the settlement of foreign currency denominated third party and intercompany receivables and payables (that were not of a long term investment nature), partially offset by $3.6 million of lower losses relating to foreign currency hedge contracts. Foreign currency gains and losses are unrelated to the impact of changes in the value of the U.S. dollar when operating results of our foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars. Interest Expense. Interest expense includes the borrowing costs of our outstanding debt, including amortization of debt issuance costs, and interest related to our capital lease obligations. Interest expense increased by $6.2 million, or 33.9%, to $24.5 million in Fiscal 2012 from $18.3 million in Fiscal 2011. The increase in 47 interest expense was primarily due to amortization of the loss associated with the termination of an interest rate swap during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 (see Note 16 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements) and unfavorable foreign currency effects due to the performance of the Euro during Fiscal 2012 compared to Fiscal 2011. Interest and Other Income, net. Interest and other income, net, increased by $3.3 million, or 42.9%, to $11.0 million in Fiscal 2012 from $7.7 million in Fiscal 2011. This increase was primarily due to higher yields related to our European investment portfolio during Fiscal 2012, as well as the inclusion of pretax income of approximately $1.0 million related to the change in fiscal year of our Japanese subsidiary, Ralph Lauren Corporation Japan (formerly Polo Ralph Lauren Kabushiki Kaisha), to conform to our consolidated fiscal year basis during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 (see Note 2 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements). Equity in Income (Loss) of Equity Method Investees. The equity in loss of equity method investees of $9.3 million and $7.7 million recognized in Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011, respectively, related to our share of losses from our joint venture, the Ralph Lauren Watch and Jewelry Company, S.A.R.L. (the RL Watch Company), which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. The provision for income taxes increased by $76.3 million, or 29.6%, to $334.1 million in Fiscal 2012 from $257.8 million in Fiscal 2011. The increase in provision for income taxes was primarily due to a higher overall level of pretax income, as well as an increase in our reported effective tax rate of 170 basis points to 32.9% in Fiscal 2012 from 31.2% in Fiscal 2011. The higher effective tax rate was primarily due to the absence in the current year of tax reserve reductions associated with the conclusion of tax examinations and certain other discrete items that impacted us in Fiscal 2011, as well as a greater proportion of earnings generated in higher taxed jurisdictions during Fiscal 2012. The effective tax rate differs from statutory rates due to the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate will change from year to year based on various factors including, but not limited to, the geographic mix of earnings, the timing and amount of foreign dividends, enacted tax legislation, state and local taxes, tax audit findings and settlements, and the interaction of various global tax strategies. Net Income Attributable to RLC. Net income increased by $113.4 million, or 20.0%, to $681.0 million in Fiscal 2012 from $567.6 million in Fiscal 2011. The increase in net income primarily related to the $194.3 million increase in operating income, partially offset by the $76.3 million increase in the provision for income taxes, both as previously discussed. Net Income Per Diluted Share Attributable to RLC. Net income per diluted share increased by $1.38, or 24.0%, to $7.13 per share in Fiscal 2012 from $5.75 per share in Fiscal 2011. The increase in diluted per share results was due to the higher level of net income, as previously discussed, and the lower weighted average diluted shares outstanding driven by our share repurchases during Fiscal 2012. 48 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 The following table summarizes our results of operations and expresses the percentage relationship to net revenues of certain financial statement captions: Fiscal Years Ended $Change % / bpsChange April 2,2011 April 3,2010 (millions, except per share data) Net revenues $ 5,660.3 $ 4,978.9 $ 681.4 13.7% Cost of goods sold(a) (2,342.0 ) (2,079.8 ) (262.2 ) 12.6% Gross profit 3,318.3 2,899.1 419.2 14.5% Gross profit as % of net revenues 58.6 % 58.2 % 40 bps Selling, general and administrative expenses(a) (2,442.7 ) (2,157.0 ) (285.7 ) 13.2% SG&A expenses as % of net revenues 43.2 % 43.3 % (10) bps Amortization of intangible assets (25.4 ) (21.7 ) (3.7 ) 17.1% Impairments of assets (2.5 ) (6.6 ) 4.1 (62.1% ) Restructuring charges (2.6 ) (6.9 ) 4.3 (62.3% ) Operating income 845.1 706.9 138.2 19.6% Operating income as % of net revenues 14.9 % 14.2 % 70 bps Foreign currency gains (losses) (1.4 ) (2.2 ) 0.8 (36.4% ) Interest expense (18.3 ) (22.2 ) 3.9 (17.6% ) Interest and other income, net 7.7 12.4 (4.7 ) (37.9% ) Equity in income (loss) of equity method investees (7.7 ) (5.6 ) (2.1 ) 37.5% Income before provision for income taxes 825.4 689.3 136.1 19.7% Provision for income taxes (257.8 ) (209.8 ) (48.0 ) 22.9% Effective tax rate(b) 31.2 % 30.4 % 80 bps Net income attributable to RLC $ 567.6 $ 479.5 $ 88.1 18.4% Net income per common share attributable to RLC: Basic $ 5.91 $ 4.85 $ 1.06 21.9% Diluted $ 5.75 $ 4.73 $ 1.02 21.6% (a) Includes total depreciation expense of $168.7 million and $159.5 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. (b) Effective tax rate is calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before provision for income taxes. Net Revenues. Net revenues increased by $681.4 million, or 13.7%, to $5.660 billion in Fiscal 2011 from $4.979 billion in Fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to higher revenues from our global retail and wholesale businesses, partially offset by net unfavorable foreign currency effects. Excluding the effect of foreign currency, net revenues increased by 14.0%. Net revenues for our three business segments are provided below: Fiscal Years Ended $Change %Change April 2,2011 April 3,2010 (millions) Net Revenues: Wholesale $ 2,777.6 $ 2,532.4 $ 245.2 9.7% Retail 2,704.2 2,263.1 441.1 19.5% Licensing 178.5 183.4 (4.9 ) (2.7%) Total net revenues $ 5,660.3 $ 4,978.9 $ 681.4 13.7% 49 Wholesale net revenues The net increase in revenues primarily reflects: a $208 million aggregate net increase in our domestic businesses primarily due to increased revenues from our menswear and womenswear product lines (offset in part by sales declines in related American Living product categories). In addition, our accessories product lines (including footwear) contributed to the increase in revenues, reflecting an increased presence at department store locations as well as additional product category offerings. These increases were partially offset by a planned reduction in sales for our off price channel business; a $62 million net increase in our European businesses on a constant currency basis primarily driven by increased revenues from our menswear and womenswear product lines; and The inclusion of $25 million of incremental revenues in connection with the Asia Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition, which was included in our results for the full year in Fiscal 2011 in comparison to three months in the prior fiscal year. The above net increase was partially offset by: a $25 million net decrease in our Japanese businesses on a constant currency basis driven by a decrease in womenswear sales; and a $25 million net decrease in revenues due to an unfavorable foreign currency effect related to the weakening of the Euro, partially offset by a favorable foreign currency effect related to the strengthening of the Yen, both in comparison to the U.S. dollar during Fiscal 2011. Retail net revenues The net increase in Retail net revenues primarily reflects: a $259 million aggregate net increase in non comparable store sales primarily driven by: an increase of approximately $137 million related to the inclusion of a full year of revenues from stores and concession based shop within shops assumed in connection with the Asia Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition, in comparison to three months in the prior fiscal year; the inclusion of approximately $22 million of revenues from stores and concession based shop within shops assumed in connection with the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition; a net aggregate favorable foreign currency effect of approximately $8 million, primarily related to the strengthening of the Yen, partially offset by the overall weakening of the Euro, both in comparison to the U.S. dollar during Fiscal 2011; and an increase related to a number of new international full price and factory store openings within the past twelve months, including our flagship stores on Madison Avenue in New York and in Saint Germain, Paris, as well as our recently launched United Kingdom retail e commerce site. Excluding those stores and shops assumed in connection with the Asia Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition and the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition (both as discussed above), our average global physical store count increased by 35 stores and concession shops as compared to Fiscal 2010. Our total physical store count as of April 2, 2011 included 367 freestanding stores and 510 concession shops, including 4 stores and 178 concession shops relating to the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition. 50 a $134 million aggregate net increase in comparable physical store sales primarily driven by our global factory stores, including a net aggregate favorable foreign currency effect of approximately $1 million primarily related to the strengthening of the Yen, largely offset by the overall weakening of the Euro, both in comparison to the U.S. dollar during Fiscal 2011. The increase in Retail net revenues was also due to a $48 million increase in RalphLauren.com sales. Comparable store sales are presented below on a 52 week basis: Fiscal Year Ended April 2, 2011 Increases in comparable store sales as reported: Ralph Lauren store sales(a) 1% Club Monaco store sales 14% Factory store sales 10% RalphLauren.com sales 23% Total increase in comparable store sales as reported 10% Increases in comparable store sales excluding the effect of foreign currency: Ralph Lauren store sales(b) 0% Club Monaco store sales 14% Factory store sales 11% RalphLauren.com sales 23% Total increase in comparable store sales excluding the effect of foreign currency 10% (a) Includes a decrease of 3% in comparable sales for concessions based shop within shops. (b) Includes a decrease of 11% in comparable sales for concessions based shop within shops. Licensing revenue The net decrease in revenues primarily reflects: an $8 million decrease in international licensing royalties primarily due to the recent Asia Pacific and South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisitions; and a $4 million decrease in Home licensing royalties primarily driven by lower paint related royalties. The above net decrease was partially offset by: a $7 million increase in domestic product licensing royalties primarily driven by higher footwear related and fragrance related royalties. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by $419.2 million, or 14.5%, to $3.318 billion in Fiscal 2011 from $2.899 billion in Fiscal 2010. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased by 40 basis points to 58.6% in Fiscal 2011 from 58.2% in Fiscal 2010. This increase was primarily due to higher levels of full price sell throughs and decreased promotional activity across most of our global retail businesses, as well as growth from the retail businesses assumed in the Asia Pacific and South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisitions. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net revenues was partially offset by lower global wholesale margins, driven by sourcing cost pressures experienced during the second half of Fiscal 2011. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. SG&A expenses increased by $285.7 million, or 13.2%, to $2.443 billion in Fiscal 2011 from $2.157 billion in Fiscal 2010. This increase included a net unfavorable foreign currency effect of approximately $6 million primarily related to strengthening of the Yen, partially offset by the weakening of the Euro, both in comparison to the U.S. dollar during Fiscal 2011. SG&A expenses as a percent of net revenues decreased slightly to 43.2% in Fiscal 2011 as compared to 43.3% in Fiscal 2010, reflecting the operating leverage of the increase in our net revenues and our disciplined expense management, which more than offset the increase in operating expenses attributable to our new business initiatives and acquisitions. The $285.7 million increase in SG&A expenses was primarily driven by: the inclusion of additional SG&A costs of approximately $108 million related to our newly acquired Polo branded businesses in Asia, including $88 million of incremental costs related to the inclusion of a full year 51 of SG&A costs associated with the Asia Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition in comparison to three months in the prior fiscal year, and $20 million of SG&A and acquisition related costs related to our recent South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition; higher selling salaries and compensation related costs of approximately $104 million primarily related to the global increase in Retail sales and worldwide store expansion, as well as higher incentive based and stock based compensation expenses; increased brand related marketing and advertising costs of approximately $30 million; increased consulting costs of approximately $23 million, including costs relating to new global information technology systems; an approximate $14 million increase in rent and utility costs primarily to support the ongoing global growth of our businesses; and increased selling expenses of approximately $10 million to support increased sales. Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets increased by $3.7 million, or 17.1%, to $25.4 million in Fiscal 2011 from $21.7 million in Fiscal 2010. This increase was primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired in connection with the Asia Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition in comparison to three months in the prior fiscal year, as well as the amortization of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition. Impairments of Assets. A non cash impairment charge of $2.5 million was recognized in Fiscal 2011 to reduce the net carrying values of certain retail store and concession shop long lived assets in the Asia Pacific region that were determined to no longer be used over the intended service period to their estimated fair value. During Fiscal 2010, we recognized a non cash impairment charge of $6.6 million to reduce the net carrying values of certain long lived assets primarily in our Retail segment to their estimated fair values due to the underperformance of certain domestic retail stores. See Note 11 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges of $2.6 million for Fiscal 2011 primarily related to employee termination costs associated with our wholesale operations and the closing of a warehouse facility, partially offset by reversals of reserves deemed no longer necessary largely associated with previously closed retail stores. Restructuring charges of $6.9 million for Fiscal 2010 primarily related to employee termination costs, as well as the write down of an asset associated with exiting a retail store in Japan. See Note 12 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Operating Income. Operating income increased by $138.2 million, or 19.6%, to $845.1 million in Fiscal 2011 from $706.9 million in Fiscal 2010. Operating income as a percentage of net revenues increased 70 basis points, to 14.9% in Fiscal 2011 from 14.2% in Fiscal 2010. The increase in operating income as a percentage of net revenues primarily reflected the increase in our overall gross profit margin, as previously discussed. 52 Operating income and margin for our three business segments is provided below: Fiscal Years Ended $Change MarginChange April 2, 2011 April 3, 2010 OperatingIncome OperatingMargin OperatingIncome OperatingMargin (millions) (millions) (millions) Segment: Wholesale $ 612.3 22.0 % $ 585.3 23.1 % $ 27.0 (110) bps Retail 387.8 14.3 % 254.1 11.2 % 133.7 310 bps Licensing 108.3 60.7 % 107.4 58.6 % 0.9 210 bps 1,108.4 946.8 161.6 Less: Unallocated corporate expenses (262.1 ) (229.9 ) (32.2 ) Unallocated legal and restructuring charges, net (1.2 ) (10.0 ) 8.8 Total operating income $ 845.1 14.9 % $ 706.9 14.2 % $ 138.2 70 bps Wholesale operating margin decreased by 110 basis points, primarily as a result of lower global gross profit margins reflecting cost pressures experienced during the second half of Fiscal 2011, partially offset by a decrease in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues due to improved operating leverage. Retail operating margin increased by 310 basis points, primarily as a result of higher gross profit margins across most of our global retail businesses primarily driven by higher levels of full price sell throughs and decreased promotional activity across most of our global retail businesses. This increase was partially offset by increased SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues, primarily driven by increased salaries and compensation related costs, rent expenses and marketing and advertising expenses to support the ongoing growth of our global Retail businesses. Licensing operating margin increased by 210 basis points, primarily as a result of lower net costs associated with the transition of our licensed businesses to wholly owned operations, as well as lower revenues. Unallocated corporate expenses increased by $32.2 million, primarily as a result of higher incentive based and stock based compensation expenses, increased information technology costs and higher charitable contributions. Unallocated legal and restructuring charges, net for Fiscal 2011 included net unallocated restructuring charges of $2.6 million that were partially offset by $1.4 million of net reversals of legal reserves deemed no longer necessary. Fiscal 2010 included restructuring charges of $6.9 million and legal charges of $4.8 million primarily related to our California Labor Litigation matter, offset in part by the reversal of an excess legal reserve of $1.7 million (see Note 17 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion). Foreign Currency Gains (Losses). The effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations resulted in a loss of $1.4 million in Fiscal 2011, compared to a loss of $2.2 million in Fiscal 2010. Excluding the net increase in losses of $5.5 million relating to foreign currency hedge contracts, the overall reduction in foreign currency losses was primarily due to the timing of the settlement of foreign currency denominated third party and intercompany receivables and payables (that were not of a long term investment nature). Foreign currency gains and losses are unrelated to the impact of changes in the value of the U.S. dollar when operating results of our foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased by $3.9 million, or 17.6%, to $18.3 million in Fiscal 2011 from $22.2 million in Fiscal 2010. This decrease was primarily due to a lower principal amount of our outstanding Euro denominated 4.5% notes as a result of a partial debt extinguishment in July 2009 and reduced interest rates as a result of a fixed to floating interest rate swap entered into during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, as well as the favorable foreign currency effect resulting from the weakening of the Euro during Fiscal 2011. 53 Interest and Other Income, net. Interest and other income, net, decreased by $4.7 million, or 37.9%, to $7.7 million in Fiscal 2011 from $12.4 million in Fiscal 2010, primarily due to the prior year gain of $4.1 million related to the partial extinguishment of our Euro denominated 4.5% notes. The decline in interest and other income, net was also driven by a net unfavorable foreign currency effect resulting from the weakening of the Euro and lower average yields on our cash and cash equivalents during Fiscal 2011. Equity in Income (Loss) of Equity Method Investees. The equity in loss of equity method investees of $7.7 million and $5.6 million recognized in Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively, related to our share of losses from our joint venture, the RL Watch Company, which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes increased by $48.0 million, or 22.9%, to $257.8 million in Fiscal 2011 from $209.8 million in Fiscal 2010. The increase in the provision for income taxes was principally due to an overall increase in pretax income in Fiscal 2011 and an increase in our reported effective tax rate of 80 basis points, to 31.2% in Fiscal 2011 from 30.4% in Fiscal 2010. The higher effective tax rate was primarily due to a greater proportion of earnings generated in higher taxed jurisdictions for Fiscal 2011. Our effective tax rate in both years was favorably impacted by reductions in tax reserves associated with conclusions of tax examinations and other discrete tax reserve reductions. Net Income Attributable to RLC. Net income increased by $88.1 million, or 18.4%, to $567.6 million in Fiscal 2011 from $479.5 million in Fiscal 2010, primarily related to the $138.2 million increase in operating income, partially offset by the $48.0 million increase in the provision for income taxes, as previously discussed. These results were impacted by increased pretax income of approximately $19 million in Fiscal 2010 due to the inclusion of the 53rd week, which decreased net income trends by approximately $13 million. Net Income Per Diluted Share Attributable to RLC. Net income per diluted share increased by $1.02, or 21.6%, to $5.75 per share in Fiscal 2011 from $4.73 per share in Fiscal 2010, due to the higher level of net income, as previously discussed, and lower weighted average diluted shares outstanding primarily driven by share repurchases during Fiscal 2011. These results were impacted by increased pretax income of approximately $19 million in Fiscal 2010 due to the inclusion of the 53rd week, which decreased net income per diluted share trends by approximately $0.13. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Financial Condition March 31,2012 April 2,2011 $Change (millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 671.6 $ 453.0 $ 218.6 Short term investments 515.7 593.9 (78.2 ) Non current investments 99.9 83.6 16.3 Long term debt (274.4 ) (291.9 ) 17.5 Net cash and investments(a) $ 1,012.8 $ 838.6 $ 174.2 Equity $ 3,652.5 $ 3,304.7 $ 347.8 (a) Net cash and investments is defined as total cash and cash equivalents plus short term and non current investments, less total debt. The increase in our net cash and investments position at March 31, 2012 as compared to April 2, 2011 was primarily due to our operating cash flows and proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by our use of cash to support treasury stock repurchases, capital expenditures and dividend payments. Particularly, in Fiscal 2012, we used $419.4 million to repurchase 3.4 million shares of Class A common stock, including shares surrendered for tax withholdings, spent $272.2 million for capital expenditures and made cash dividend payments of $74.3 million. The increase in equity was primarily attributable to our net income and equity issuances made pursuant to stock based compensation arrangements, partially offset by our share repurchase activity during Fiscal 2012. 54 Cash Flows Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011 Fiscal Years Ended $Change March 31,2012 April 2,2011 (millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 885.3 $ 688.7 $ 196.6 Net cash used in investing activities (249.6 ) (299.4 ) 49.8 Net cash used in financing activities (407.7 ) (512.6 ) 104.9 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (9.4 ) 13.2 (22.6 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 218.6 $ (110.1 ) $ 328.7 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $885.3 million in Fiscal 2012, as compared to $688.7 million in Fiscal 2011. This net increase in operating cash flow was primarily driven by: an increase related to income taxes due to the timing of income tax payments; an increase in net income before depreciation, amortization, stock based compensation and other non cash expenses; and an increase related to inventories primarily attributable to the timing of inventory receipts. The above increases in operating cash flow were partially offset by: a decrease related to accounts payable and accrued liabilities primarily due to the timing of payments; and a decrease related to accounts receivable primarily due to lower cash collections in Fiscal 2012, which resulted in an increase in days sales outstanding compared to Fiscal 2011. Other than the items described above, the changes in operating assets and liabilities were attributable to normal operating fluctuations. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $249.6 million in Fiscal 2012, as compared to $299.4 million of net cash used in investing activities in Fiscal 2011. The net decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by: a decrease in net cash used to fund our acquisitions and ventures from $70.9 million in Fiscal 2011 to $11.7 million in Fiscal 2012. In Fiscal 2011, we used $47.0 million to fund the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition and $17.0 million to fund the acquisition of certain finite lived intellectual property rights. Fiscal 2012 activity primarily related to the continued funding of our Joint Venture, the RL Watch Company; and an increase in proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, less cash used to purchase investments. In Fiscal 2012, we received $1.394 billion of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments and used $1.361 billion to purchase investments. On a comparative basis, in Fiscal 2011, we used $1.244 billion to purchase investments and received $1.242 billion of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. The above decrease in cash used in investing activities was partially offset by: an increase in cash used for capital expenditures. In Fiscal 2012, we spent $272.2 million for capital expenditures, as compared to $255.0 million in Fiscal 2011. Our capital expenditures were primarily associated with global retail store expansion, construction and renovation of department store shop within shops, investments in our facilities and enhancements to our global information technology systems. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $407.7 million in Fiscal 2012, as compared to $512.6 million in Fiscal 2011. The net decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily driven by: a decrease in cash used in connection with repurchases of our Class A common stock. In Fiscal 2012, 3.2 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $395.1 million were repurchased pursuant to our 55 common stock repurchase program and 0.2 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $24.3 million were surrendered or withheld in satisfaction of withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of awards under our 1997 Long Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the 1997 Incentive Plan), and our 2010 Long Term Stock Incentive Plan (the 2010 Incentive Plan). On a comparative basis, in Fiscal 2011, 6.0 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $577.8 million were repurchased pursuant to our common stock repurchase program and 0.2 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $16.8 million were surrendered or withheld for taxes. The above decrease in cash used in financing activities was partially offset by: an increase in cash used to pay dividends. In Fiscal 2012, we used $74.3 million to pay dividends, as compared to $38.5 million in Fiscal 2011, largely due to an increase in the quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.10 per share to $0.20 per share in February 2011; and a decrease in cash received from exercise of stock options. In Fiscal 2012, we received $61.5 million from the exercise of employee stock options, as compared to $88.3 million in Fiscal 2011. Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Fiscal Years Ended April 2,2011 April 3,2010 $Change (millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 688.7 $ 906.5 $ (217.8 ) Net cash used in investing activities (299.4 ) (504.4 ) 205.0 Net cash used in financing activities (512.6 ) (306.4 ) (206.2 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 13.2 (13.8 ) 27.0 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (110.1 ) $ 81.9 $ (192.0 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $688.7 million in Fiscal 2011, as compared to $906.5 million in Fiscal 2010. This net decrease in operating cash flow was primarily driven by: a decrease related to inventories primarily attributable to the timing of inventory receipts, as well as an increase in inventory levels to support our new business initiatives, store openings and recent acquisitions. The higher year over year inventory levels also reflect the increased sourcing costs during the second half of Fiscal 2011; a decrease related to accounts receivable primarily due to increased sales; and a decrease related to income taxes due to the timing of income tax payments. The above decreases in operating cash flow were partially offset by: an increase in net income before depreciation, amortization, stock based compensation and other non cash expenses; and an increase related to accounts payable and accrued liabilities, primarily due to the timing of payments and increased volume of shipments. Other than the items described above, the changes in operating assets and liabilities were attributable to normal operating fluctuations. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $299.4 million in Fiscal 2011, as compared to $504.4 million in Fiscal 2010. The net decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by: a decrease in cash used to purchase investments, less proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. In Fiscal 2011, we used $1.244 billion to purchase investments and received $1.242 billion of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. On a comparative basis, in Fiscal 2010, we used $1.351 billion to purchase investments and received $1.072 billion of proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. 56 The above decrease in cash used in investing activities was partially offset by: an increase in cash used in connection with capital expenditures. In Fiscal 2011, we spent $255.0 million for capital expenditures, as compared to $201.3 million in Fiscal 2010. Our capital expenditures were primarily associated with global retail store expansion, construction and renovation of department store shop within shops, investments in our facilities, and enhancements to our global information technology systems; and an increase in net cash used to fund our acquisitions and ventures. In Fiscal 2011, we used $70.9 million to fund our acquisitions and ventures, including $47.0 million to fund the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition and $17.0 million to fund the acquisition of certain finite lived intellectual property rights. In Fiscal 2010, we used $30.8 million primarily to fund the Asia Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $512.6 million in Fiscal 2011, as compared to $306.4 million in Fiscal 2010. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily driven by: an increase in cash used in connection with repurchases of our Class A common stock. In Fiscal 2011, 6.0 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $577.8 million were repurchased pursuant to our common stock repurchase program and 0.2 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $16.8 million were surrendered or withheld in satisfaction of withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of awards issued under the 1997 Incentive Plan. On a comparative basis, in Fiscal 2010, 2.9 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $215.9 million were repurchased pursuant to our common stock repurchase program and 0.3 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $15.1 million were surrendered for tax withholdings; and an increase in cash used to pay dividends. In Fiscal 2011, we used $38.5 million to pay dividends as compared to $24.7 million in Fiscal 2010, largely due to the increases in the quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.05 per share to $0.10 per share in November 2009. The above increases in cash used were partially offset by: a decrease in cash used in connection with our repayment of debt in July 2009. In Fiscal 2010, we completed a cash tender offer and used $121.0 million to repurchase 90.8 million of principal amount of our 4.5% notes due October 4, 2013. There were no debt repurchases during Fiscal 2011; an increase in cash received from the exercise of employee stock options. In Fiscal 2011, we received $88.3 million from the exercise of employee stock options, as compared to $50.5 million in Fiscal 2010; and an increase in excess tax benefits from stock based compensation arrangements of $17.4 million in Fiscal 2011, as compared to the prior fiscal year. Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated from our operations, the $500 million of availability under our Global Credit Facility (as defined below), our available cash and cash equivalents (most of which is considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S.) and investments, and our other available financing options. These sources of liquidity are used to fund our ongoing cash requirements, including working capital requirements, global retail store expansion and renovation, construction and renovation of shop in shops, investment in technological infrastructure, acquisitions, joint ventures, dividends, debt repayment/repurchase, stock repurchases, contingent liabilities (including uncertain tax positions) and other corporate activities. Management believes that our existing sources of cash will be sufficient to support our operating, capital and debt service requirements for the foreseeable future, including the ongoing development of our recently acquired businesses and our plans for further business expansion. As discussed in the Debt and Covenant Compliance section below, we had no revolving credit borrowings outstanding under our Global Credit Facility as of March 31, 2012. As discussed further below, we may elect to draw on our Global Credit Facility or other potential sources of financing for, among other things, a material acquisition, settlement of a material contingency (including uncertain tax positions) or a material adverse business or macroeconomic development, as well as for other general corporate business purposes. We believe that our 57 Global Credit Facility is adequately diversified with no undue concentrations in any one financial institution. In particular, as of March 31, 2012, there were nine financial institutions participating in the Global Credit Facility, with no one participant maintaining a maximum commitment percentage in excess of approximately 16%. Management has no reason at this time to believe that the participating institutions will be unable to fulfill their obligations to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the Global Credit Facility in the event of our election to draw funds in the foreseeable future. Common Stock Repurchase Program On May 24, 2011, our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our existing common stock repurchase program that allows us to repurchase up to an additional $500 million of Class A common stock. Repurchases of shares of Class A common stock are subject to overall business and market conditions. In Fiscal 2012, we repurchased 3.2 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $395.1 million under our repurchase program. The remaining availability under our common stock repurchase program was approximately $577 million and $472 million as of March 31, 2012 and April 2, 2011, respectively. In addition, 0.2 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $24.3 million were surrendered or withheld in satisfaction of withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of awards issued under the 1997 Incentive Plan and the 2010 Incentive Plan. In Fiscal 2011, we repurchased 6.0 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $577.8 million under our share repurchase program, including a repurchase of 1.0 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $81.0 million in connection with a secondary stock offering (as discussed in Note 18 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements). In addition, in Fiscal 2011, 0.2 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $16.8 million were surrendered or withheld in satisfaction of withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of awards issued under the 1997 Incentive Plan. In Fiscal 2010, we repurchased 2.9 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $215.9 million under our repurchase program. In addition, 0.3 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of $15.1 million were surrendered or withheld in satisfaction of withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of awards issued under the 1997 Incentive Plan. Dividends Since 2003, we have maintained a regular quarterly cash dividend program on our common stock. On November 4, 2009, our Board of Directors approved an increase to the quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.05 per share to $0.10 per share. On February 8, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a second increase to the quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.10 per share to $0.20 per share. Dividends paid amounted to $74.3 million in Fiscal 2012, $38.5 million in Fiscal 2011 and $24.7 million in Fiscal 2010. On May 21, 2012, our Board of Directors approved an additional increase to the quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.20 per share to $0.40 per share. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly dividends on our outstanding common stock. However, any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant. Debt and Covenant Compliance Euro Debt As of March 31, 2012, we had outstanding 209.2 million principal amount of 4.5% notes due October 4, 2013 (the Euro Debt). We have the option to redeem all of the outstanding Euro Debt at any time at a redemption price equal to the principal amount plus a premium. We also have the option to redeem all of the outstanding Euro Debt at any time at par plus accrued interest in the event of certain developments involving U.S. tax law. Partial redemption of the Euro Debt is not permitted in either instance. In the event of a change of control, each holder of the Euro Debt has the option to require us to redeem the Euro Debt at its principal amount plus accrued interest. The indenture governing the Euro Debt (the Indenture) contains certain limited covenants that restrict our ability, subject to specified exceptions, to incur liens or enter into a sale and leaseback transaction for any principal property. The Indenture does not contain any financial covenants. 58 As of March 31, 2012, the carrying value of our Euro Debt was $274.4 million, compared to $291.1 million as of April 2, 2011. In July 2009, we completed a cash tender offer and used $121.0 million to repurchase 90.8 million of principal amount of our then outstanding 300 million principal amount of 4.5% notes due October 4, 2013 at a discounted purchase price of approximately 95%. A net pretax gain of $4.1 million related to this extinguishment of debt was recorded during the second quarter of Fiscal 2010 and classified as a component of interest and other income, net in our consolidated statements of operations. We used our cash on hand to fund the debt extinguishment. Revolving Credit Facilities Global Credit Facility We have a credit facility that provides for a $500 million senior unsecured revolving line of credit through March 2016, also used to support the issuance of letters of credit (the Global Credit Facility). Borrowings under the Global Credit Facility may be denominated in U.S. dollars and other currencies, including Euros, Hong Kong Dollars and Japanese Yen. We have the ability to expand the borrowing availability to $750 million, subject to the agreement of one or more new or existing lenders under the facility to increase their commitments. There are no mandatory reductions in borrowing ability throughout the term of the Global Credit Facility. In November 2011, we repaid $100.0 million in borrowings that were previously drawn down under the Global Credit Facility earlier in the fiscal year. As of March 31, 2012, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Global Credit Facility and we were contingently liable for $13.4 million of outstanding letters of credit. U.S. dollar denominated borrowings under the Global Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, either at (a) a base rate, by reference to the greatest of: (i) the annual prime commercial lending rate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in effect from time to time, (ii) the weighted average overnight Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or (iii) the one month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 100 basis points; or (b) LIBOR, adjusted for the Federal Reserve Boards Eurocurrency liabilities maximum reserve percentage, plus a spread of 112.5 basis points, subject to adjustment based on our credit ratings (Adjusted LIBOR). Foreign currency denominated borrowings bear interest at Adjusted LIBOR, as previously described. In addition to paying interest on any outstanding borrowings under the Global Credit Facility, we are required to pay a commitment fee to the lenders under the Global Credit Facility in respect of the unutilized commitments. The commitment fee rate of 15 basis points under the terms of the Global Credit Facility is subject to adjustment based on our credit ratings. The Global Credit Facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability, subject to specified exceptions, to incur additional debt; incur liens, sell or dispose of assets; merge with or acquire other companies; liquidate or dissolve; engage in businesses that are not in a related line of business; make loans, advances, or guarantees; engage in transactions with affiliates; and make investments. The Global Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a maximum ratio of Adjusted Debt to Consolidated EBITDAR (the leverage ratio) of no greater than 3.75 as of the date of measurement for the four most recent consecutive fiscal quarters. Adjusted Debt is defined generally as consolidated debt outstanding plus 8 times consolidated rent expense for the last four consecutive fiscal quarters. Consolidated EBITDAR is defined generally as consolidated net income plus (i) income tax expense, (ii) net interest expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense and (iv) consolidated rent expense. As of March 31, 2012, no Event of Default (as such term is defined pursuant to the Global Credit Facility) has occurred under our Global Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Global Credit Facility, the lenders may cease making loans, terminate the Global Credit Facility and declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. The Global Credit Facility specifies a number of events of default (many of which are subject to applicable grace periods), including, among others, the failure to make timely principal, interest and fee payments or to satisfy the covenants, including the financial covenant described above. Additionally, the Global Credit Facility provides that an Event of Default will occur if Mr. Ralph Lauren, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and entities controlled by the Lauren family fail to maintain a specified minimum percentage of the voting power of our common stock. 59 Chinese Credit Facility On April 11, 2012, Ralph Lauren Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., one of our subsidiaries, entered into a new uncommitted credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank (China) Company Limited, Shanghai Branch (the Bank) that provides for a revolving line of credit of up to 100 million Chinese Renminbi (approximately $16 million) through April 10, 2013 (the Chinese Credit Facility). The Chinese Credit Facility replaced our previous credit facility, which provided for a revolving line of credit of up to 70 million Chinese Renminbi (approximately $11 million) and expired in February 2012 (the previous credit facility). Consistent with the previous credit facility, the Chinese Credit Facility will be used to fund general working capital needs of our operations in China. In addition, the Chinese Credit Facility may be used to support bank guarantees. The borrowing availability under the Chinese Credit Facility is at the sole discretion of the Bank and is subject to availability of the Banks funds and satisfaction of certain regulatory requirements. Borrowings under the Chinese Credit Facility are guaranteed by RLC and bear interest at either (i) at least 95% of the short term interest rate published by the Peoples Bank of China or (ii) a rate determined by the Bank at its discretion based on prevailing market conditions. The Chinese Credit Facility does not contain any financial covenants. In July 2011, we repaid $7.7 million in borrowings that were drawn down under the previous credit facility earlier in the fiscal year. Contractual and Other Obligations Firm Commitments The following table summarizes certain of our aggregate contractual obligations as of March 31, 2012, and the estimated timing and effect that such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods. We expect to fund the firm commitments with operating cash flow generated in the normal course of business and, if necessary, availability under our credit facilities or other potential sources of financing. Fiscal2013 Fiscal2014 2015 Fiscal2016 2017 Fiscal2018 andThereafter Total (millions) Euro Debt $ $ 278.3 $ $ $ 278.3 Interest payments on Euro Debt 12.5 12.5 25.0 Capital leases 6.8 13.6 13.6 35.5 69.5 Operating leases 259.2 482.1 393.4 827.8 1,962.5 Inventory purchase commitments 998.7 998.7 Other commitments 25.6 15.5 4.4 0.6 46.1 Total $ 1,302.8 $ 802.0 $ 411.4 $ 863.9 $ 3,380.1 The following is a description of our material, firmly committed contractual obligations as of March 31, 2012: Euro Debt represents the principal amount due at maturity of our outstanding Euro Debt on a U.S. dollar equivalent basis. Amounts do not include any fair value adjustments, call premiums or interest payments (see below); Interest payments on Euro Debt represent the annual contractual interest payments due on our Euro Debt; Lease obligations represent the minimum lease rental payments under noncancelable leases for our real estate and operating equipment in various locations around the world. Approximately 60% of these lease obligations relates to our retail operations. Information has been presented separately for operating and capital leases. In addition to such amounts, we are normally required to pay taxes, insurance and occupancy costs relating to our leased real estate properties; Inventory purchase commitments represent our legally binding agreements to purchase fixed or minimum quantities of goods at determinable prices; and 60 Other commitments primarily represent our legally binding obligations under sponsorship, licensing and other marketing and advertising agreements; information technology related service agreements; capital projects; and pension related obligations. Excluded from the above contractual obligations table is the non current liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $168 million as of March 31, 2012, as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period in which the liability will be settled, if ever. The above table also excludes the following: (i) amounts included in current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2012, as these items will be paid within one year; and (ii) non current liabilities that have no cash outflows associated with them (e.g., deferred revenue) or the cash outflows associated with them are uncertain or do not represent a purchase obligation as the term is used herein (e.g., deferred taxes and other miscellaneous items). We also have certain contractual arrangements that would require us to make payments if certain circumstances occur. See Note 17 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for a description of our contingent commitments not included in the above table. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In addition to the commitments included in the above table, our other off balance sheet firm commitments, which include outstanding letters of credit and minimum funding commitments to investees, amounted to approximately $14 million as of March 31, 2012. We do not maintain any other off balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition or results of operations. MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT We are exposed to a variety of risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to certain anticipated cash flows from our international operations and possible declines in the value of reported net assets of certain of our foreign operations. Consequently, in the normal course of business we employ established policies and procedures, including the use of derivative financial instruments, to manage such risks. We do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes. As a result of the use of derivative instruments, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to our derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, we have a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected financial institutions based upon evaluation of their credit ratings and other financial factors. Our established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on derivative transactions include reviewing and assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. We also enter into master netting arrangements with counterparties when possible to mitigate credit risk associated with our derivative instruments. As a result of the above considerations, we do not believe that we are exposed to any undue concentration of counterparty risk with respect to our derivative contracts as of March 31, 2012. However, we do have in aggregate approximately $25 million of derivative instruments in net asset positions placed across three creditworthy financial institutions. Foreign Currency Risk Management We manage our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates through the use of foreign currency exchange contracts. Refer to Note 16 to the audited consolidated financial statements for a summarization of the notional amounts and fair values of our foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2012. Forward Foreign Currency Exchange Contracts From time to time, we may enter into forward foreign currency exchange contracts as hedges to reduce our risk from exchange rate fluctuations on inventory purchases, intercompany royalty payments made by certain of our international operations, intercompany contributions made to fund certain marketing efforts of our international operations, interest payments made in connection with outstanding debt and other foreign currency denominated operational cash flows. As part of our overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of foreign 61 currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily to changes in the value of the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the Hong Kong Dollar, the South Korean Won, the British Pound Sterling and the Swiss Franc, we hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposures anticipated over the ensuing twelve month to two year periods. In doing so, we use forward foreign currency exchange contracts that generally have maturities of three months to two years to provide continuing coverage throughout the hedging period. Our foreign exchange risk management activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by our Audit Committee. These policies and procedures provide a framework that allows for the management of currency exposures while ensuring the activities are conducted within our established guidelines. Our policies include guidelines for the organizational structure of our risk management function and for internal controls over foreign exchange risk management activities, including but not limited to authorization levels, transactional limits and credit quality controls, as well as various measurements for monitoring compliance. We monitor foreign exchange risk using different techniques, including a periodic review of market value and sensitivity analyses. We record our forward foreign currency exchange contracts at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. To the extent foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at hedge inception are highly effective in offsetting changes in the value of the hedged item, the related gains (losses) are initially deferred in equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and are subsequently recognized in our consolidated statements of operations as follows: Forecasted Inventory Purchases Recognized as part of the cost of the inventory being hedged within cost of goods sold when the related inventory is sold to a third party. Intercompany Royalty Payments and Marketing Contributions Recognized within foreign currency gains (losses) in the period in which the related royalties or marketing contributions being hedged are received or paid. Interest Payments on Euro Debt Recognized within foreign currency gains (losses) in the period in which the recorded liability impacts earnings due to foreign currency exchange remeasurement. We recognized net losses of $4 million on forward foreign currency exchange contracts in earnings for Fiscal 2012, and net gains of $10 million and $13 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. Sensitivity We perform a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of our derivative financial instruments. To perform the sensitivity analysis, we assess the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This analysis assumes a like movement by all foreign currencies in our hedge portfolio against the U.S. dollar. Based on all foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2012, a 10% devaluation of the U.S. dollar as compared to the level of foreign currency exchange rates for currencies under contract as of March 31, 2012 would result in a net loss in fair value of approximately $45 million. As our outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts are primarily designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions, this hypothetical change in fair value would be largely offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged items. Hedge of a Net Investment in Certain European Subsidiaries We designate the entire principal amount of our outstanding Euro Debt as a hedge of our net investment in certain of our European subsidiaries. Changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument or foreign currency related changes in the carrying value of a non derivative financial instrument (such as debt) that is designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation are reported in the same manner as a translation adjustment, to the extent it is effective as a hedge. As such, changes in the carrying value of the Euro Debt resulting from changes in the Euro exchange rate have been, and continue to be, reported in equity as a component of AOCI. We recorded within other comprehensive income the translation of the Euro Debt to U.S. dollars, resulting in a gain of $16 million for Fiscal 2012, and losses of $13 million and $2 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. 62 Interest Rate Risk Management During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we entered into a fixed to floating interest rate swap with an aggregate notional value of 209.2 million, which was designated as a fair value hedge to mitigate our exposure to changes in the fair value of our Euro Debt due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The interest rate swap was executed to swap the 4.5% fixed interest rate on our Euro Debt for a variable interest rate. On April 11, 2011, we terminated the interest rate swap agreement at a loss of $7.6 million. This loss has been recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of our Euro Debt and is being recognized within interest expense over the remaining term of the debt, through October 4, 2013. During Fiscal 2012, $3.0 million of this loss was recognized as interest expense within our consolidated statement of operations. Sensitivity As of March 31, 2012, we had no variable rate debt outstanding. As such, our exposure to changes in interest rates primarily related to our fixed rate Euro debt. As of March 31, 2012, the carrying value of our Euro Debt was $274.4 million and the fair value was $289.4 million. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the level of interest rates would respectively, decrease or increase the fair value of the Euro Debt by approximately $1 million. Such potential increases or decreases are based on certain simplifying assumptions, including no changes in Euro currency exchange rates and an immediate across the board increase or decrease in the level of interest rates with no other subsequent changes for the remainder of the period. Investment Risk Management As of March 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents on hand of $671.6 million, primarily invested in money market funds, time deposits and treasury bills with original maturities of 90 days or less. Our other significant investments included $515.7 million of short term investments, primarily in time deposits, government bonds, corporate bonds and variable rate municipal securities with original maturities greater than 90 days; $47.7 million of restricted cash placed in escrow with certain banks as collateral primarily to secure guarantees in connection with certain international tax matters; $97.1 million of investments with maturities greater than one year; $2.3 million of auction rate securities issued through a municipality; and $0.5 million of other securities. We actively monitor our exposure to changes in the fair value of our global investment portfolio in accordance with our established policies and procedures, which include monitoring both general and issuer specific economic conditions, as discussed further below. As of March 31, 2012, we do not hold any investments in sovereign debt securities issued by Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain or Italy. See Note 16 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further detail of the composition of our investment portfolio as of March 31, 2012. We evaluate investments held in unrealized loss positions for other than temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. Such evaluation involves a variety of considerations, including assessments of risks and uncertainties associated with general economic conditions and distinct conditions affecting specific issuers. We consider the following factors: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been below cost, (ii) the financial condition, credit worthiness and near term prospects of the issuer, (iii) the length of time to maturity, (iv) future economic conditions and market forecasts, (v) our intent and ability to retain our investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery of market value, and (vi) an assessment of whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell our investment before recovery of market value. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results of operations and requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. Our estimates are often based on complex judgments, probabilities and assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, but that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. It is also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts. We believe that the following list represents our critical accounting policies. For a discussion of all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 3 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements. 63 Sales Reserves and Uncollectible Accounts A significant area of judgment affecting reported revenue and net income is estimating sales reserves, which represent that portion of gross revenues not expected to be realized. In particular, wholesale revenue is reduced by estimates of returns, discounts, end of season markdowns and operational chargebacks. Retail revenue, including e commerce sales, also is reduced by estimates of returns. In determining estimates of returns, discounts, end of season markdowns and operational chargebacks, management analyzes historical trends, seasonal results, current economic and market conditions and retailer performance. We review and refine these estimates on a quarterly basis. Our historical estimates of these costs have not differed materially from actual results. Similarly, management evaluates accounts receivables to determine if they will ultimately be collected. Significant judgments and estimates are involved in this evaluation, including an analysis of specific risks on a customer by customer basis for larger accounts and customers, and a receivables aging analysis that determines the percentage of receivables that has historically been uncollected by aged category. Based on this information, management provides a reserve for the estimated amounts believed to be uncollectible. Although management believes that it has adequately provided for those risks as part of our bad debt reserve, a severe and prolonged adverse impact on our major customers business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our net sales, cash flows and or financial condition. See Accounts Receivable in Note 3 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for an analysis of the activity in our sales reserves and allowance for doubtful accounts for each of the three fiscal years presented. Inventories We hold inventory that is sold through wholesale distribution channels to major department stores and specialty retail stores, including our own retail stores. We also hold retail inventory that is sold in our own stores and e commerce sites directly to consumers. Wholesale and retail inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated realizable value, with cost primarily determined on a weighted average cost basis. We continuously evaluate the composition of our inventories, assessing slow turning product and fashion product. Estimated realizable value of inventory is determined based on an analysis of historical sales trends of our individual product lines, the impact of market trends and economic conditions and the forecast of future demand, including giving consideration to the value of current orders in house relating to the future sales of inventory. Estimates may differ from actual results due to quantity, quality and mix of products in inventory, consumer and retailer preferences and market conditions. Our historical estimates of these costs and the provisions have not differed materially from actual results. Reserves for inventory shrinkage, representing the risk over physical loss of inventory, are estimated based on historical experience and are adjusted based upon physical inventory counts. Business Combinations In connection with our business combinations (whether partial, full or step acquisitions), we are required to record all of the assets and liabilities of the acquired business at fair value; recognize contingent consideration at fair value on the acquisition date; and, for certain arrangements, recognize changes in fair value in earnings until settlement. These fair value determinations require managements judgment and may involve the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market multiples, among other items. In addition, in connection with our business acquisitions, we evaluate the terms of any pre existing relationships to determine if a settlement of the pre existing relationship exists. These pre existing relationships primarily relate to licensing agreements. If the terms of the pre existing relationships were determined to not be reflective of market, a settlement gain or loss would be recognized in earnings, measured by the amount in which the contract is favorable or unfavorable to us when compared with pricing for current market transactions for the same or similar items. We allocate the aggregate consideration exchanged in these transactions between the value of 64 the business acquired and the value of the settlement of any pre existing relationships in proportion to estimates of their respective fair values. Accordingly, significant judgment is required to determine the respective fair values of the business acquired and the value of the settlement of the pre existing relationship. We may utilize independent valuation firms to assist in the determination of fair value. Fair Value Measurements We use judgment in our determination of the fair value of a particular asset or liability when evaluating the inputs used in valuation as of the measurement date, notably the extent to which the inputs are market based (observable) or internally derived (unobservable). See Note 15 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our fair value measurements. The fair value of derivative assets and liabilities is determined using a pricing model, which is primarily based on market observable external inputs, including forward and spot rates for foreign currencies and considers the impact of our credit risk, if any. Changes in counterparty credit risk are also considered in the valuation of derivative financial instruments. Our Euro Debt is recorded at carrying value in our consolidated balance sheets, adjusted for foreign currency fluctuations, changes in the fair value of any outstanding interest rate swaps and unamortized gains (losses) incurred upon the termination of such swaps, as applicable (see Note 16 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements), which may differ from its fair value. The fair value of the Euro Debt is estimated based on external pricing data, including available quoted market prices of the Euro Debt and of comparable European debt instruments with similar interest rates, credit ratings and trading frequency, among other factors. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill, including any goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and certain other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, are not amortized. Rather, goodwill and such indefinite lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment at least annually. Finite lived intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and, along with other long lived assets, are evaluated for impairment periodically whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its net book value (or carrying amount), including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not to be impaired and performance of the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. That is, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit under the first step of the goodwill impairment test and determining the fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a reporting unit (including unrecognized intangible assets) under the second step of the goodwill impairment test is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Similarly, estimates and assumptions are used in determining the fair value of other intangible assets. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether or not an impairment charge is recognized and the magnitude of any such charge. To assist management in the process of determining goodwill impairment, we review and consider appraisals from independent valuation firms. Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flows, market comparisons and recent transactions. These approaches use significant estimates and assumptions, including projected future cash flows (including timing), discount rates reflecting the risks inherent in future cash flows, perpetual growth rates and determination of appropriate market comparables. 65 The impairment test for other indefinite lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the indefinite lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess. In addition, in evaluating finite lived intangible assets for recoverability, we use our best estimate of future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and eventual disposition. To the extent that estimated future undiscounted net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference between the carrying value of such asset and its fair value. We performed our annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the second quarter of Fiscal 2012. Based on the results of the impairment assessment as of July 3, 2011, we confirmed that the fair value of our reporting units significantly exceeded their respective carrying values and there were no reporting units at risk of impairment. Additionally, there have been no impairment losses recorded in connection with the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill or other intangible assets during any of the three fiscal years presented. Impairment of Other Long Lived Assets Property and equipment, along with other long lived assets, are evaluated for impairment periodically whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. In evaluating long lived assets for recoverability, we use our best estimate of future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. To the extent that estimated future undiscounted net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference between the carrying value of such asset and its fair value, considering external market participant assumptions. Assets to be disposed of and for which there is a committed plan of disposal are reported at the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell. In determining future cash flows, we take various factors into account, including changes in merchandising strategy, the emphasis on retail store cost controls, the effects of macroeconomic trends such as consumer spending, and the impacts of more experienced retail store managers and increased local advertising. Since the determination of future cash flows is an estimate of future performance, there may be future impairments in the event that future cash flows do not meet expectations. During Fiscal 2012, Fiscal 2011, and Fiscal 2010, we recorded non cash impairment charges of $2.2 million, $2.5 million, and $6.6 million, respectively, to reduce the net carrying value of certain long lived assets primarily in our Retail segment to their estimated fair value. See Note 11 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Income Taxes In determining the income tax provision for financial reporting purposes, we establish a reserve for uncertain tax positions. If we consider that a tax position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based solely on the technical merits of the position, we recognize the tax benefit. We measure the tax benefit by determining the largest amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement, presuming that the tax position is examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. These assessments can be complex and require significant judgment, and we often obtain assistance from external advisors. To the extent that our estimates may change or the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made. If the initial assessment fails to result in the recognition of a tax benefit, we regularly monitor our position and subsequently recognize the tax benefit if (i) there are changes in tax law or analogous case law that sufficiently raise the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of the position to more likely than not, (ii) the statute of limitations expires, or (iii) there is a completion of an audit resulting in a settlement of that tax year with the appropriate agency. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of certain net operating loss, capital loss and general business credit carryforwards and the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial statement and income tax purposes, as determined under enacted tax laws and rates. Valuation allowances are established when management determines that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Tax valuation allowances are analyzed periodically by 66 assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income, which typically involves the significant use of estimates. Such allowances are adjusted as events occur, or circumstances change, that warrant adjustments to those balances. See Note 13 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of income taxes. Contingencies We are periodically exposed to various contingencies in the ordinary course of conducting our business, including certain litigations, alleged information system security breach matters, contractual disputes, employee relation matters, various tax audits, and trademark and intellectual property matters and disputes. We record a liability for such contingencies to the extent that we conclude their occurrence is probable and the related losses are estimable. In addition, if it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable settlement of a contingency could exceed the established liability, we disclose the estimated impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Management considers many factors in making these assessments. As the ultimate resolution of contingencies is inherently unpredictable, these assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events including, but not limited to, court rulings, negotiations between affected parties and governmental actions. As a result, the accounting for loss contingencies relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. Stock Based Compensation We expense all share based payments to employees and non employee directors based on the grant date fair value of the awards over the requisite service period, adjusted for estimated forfeitures. Stock Options Stock options are granted to employees and non employee directors with exercise prices equal to fair market value at the date of grant. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock options granted, which requires the input of subjective assumptions. Certain key assumptions involve estimating future uncertain events. The key factors influencing the estimation process include the expected term of the option, the expected stock price volatility factor, the expected dividend yield and risk free interest rate, among others. Generally, once stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used are different from the actuals. Determining the fair value of stock based compensation at the date of grant requires significant judgment by management, including estimates of the above Black Scholes assumptions. In addition, judgment is required in estimating the number of stock based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, if management changes the assumptions for future stock based award grants, or if there are changes in market conditions, stock based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially impacted. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) We grant restricted shares of Class A common stock and service based RSUs to certain of our senior executives and non employee directors. In addition, we grant performance based RSUs to such senior executives and other key executives, and certain of our other employees. The fair values of restricted stock shares and RSUs are based on the fair value of unrestricted Class A common stock, as adjusted to reflect the absence of dividends for those restricted securities that are not entitled to dividend equivalents. Compensation expense for performance based RSUs is recognized over the related service period when attainment of the performance goals is deemed probable, which involves judgment on the part of management. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 4 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for a description of certain recently issued or proposed accounting standards which may impact our financial statements in future reporting periods. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. For a discussion of our exposure to market risk, see Market Risk Management in Item 7 included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 67 
 
