FILE:ROK/ROK-8K-20070525162438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 4, 2007, James V. Gelly resigned as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Rockwell Automation, Inc. (the "Company"), as reported in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 6, 2007. On May 21, 2007, the Company entered into a mutual separation agreement with Mr. Gelly (the "Agreement"). Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company agreed to (i) continue to pay Mr. Gelly his base salary and provide benefits at levels equivalent to those in effect immediately prior to his resignation through September 30, 2007 (the "Termination Date"), (ii) pay Mr. Gelly one years annual base salary at the rate of $495,000 as severance pay; (iii) pay Mr. Gelly an annual bonus for fiscal year 2007 under the Companys Annual Incentive Compensation Plan for Senior Executive Officers; (iv) accelerate the vesting of stock options to purchase 76,667 shares of Common Stock held by Mr. Gelly, which were scheduled to vest between November 8, 2007 and December 6, 2008; (v) acc elerate the vesting of restricted stock awards for 5,800 shares of Common Stock, which were scheduled to vest on November 7, 2008 and December 6, 2009; and (vi) continue his car allowance and other executive perquisites through the Termination Date. Any shares acquired upon exercise of the accelerated stock options and pursuant to the vesting of the restricted stock awards will be held in escrow by the Company until December 31, 2007 and subject to forfeiture if Mr. Gelly does not satisfy his obligations under the Agreement through that date. Under the Agreement, as a condition to receiving the benefits described above, Mr. Gelly agreed (i) to abide by the Companys insider trading policies and stock trading protocol; (ii) to certain non-disparagement, non-solicitation and confidentiality provisions; and (iii) not to compete with the Company in any businesses about which he received confidential information or trade secrets through May 1, 2009. The foregoing desc ription of the Agreement with Mr. Gelly is not complete and is qualified in its entirely by reference to the Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99 Mutual Separation Agreement effective May 21, 2007 between Rockwell Automation, Inc. and James V. Gelly
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

May 17, 2007
Dear Mr. Gelly:
This letter sets forth the terms and conditions of your mutual separation agreement ("Agreement") with Rockwell Automation, Inc. (together with its successors and assigns, "Rockwell Automation"). As emphasized to you, your acceptance of this Agreement is totally voluntary. Rockwell Automation and you are willing to enter into this Agreement on the following terms and conditions:
Your performance share awards will terminate on your termination date. All stock options not vested as described above will be forfeited on your termination date. Your vested stock options will remain exercisable for three (3) months after your termination date in accordance with your Stock Option Terms and Conditions (except as otherwise provided in this Agreement).
Any shares acquired upon exercise of your stock options (but only to the extent they become vested under this Agreement) and pursuant to the vesting of the restricted stock will be held by us in escrow until December 31, 2007. You will not be able to transfer the shares during this holding period, although we will allow a cashless exercise to pay the exercise price of your stock options and to pay income taxes due upon exercise of your options and will allow share withholding to pay income taxes upon vesting of your restricted stock. If you satisfy your obligations under this Agreement through December 31, 2007, all of the shares held by us as described above will be deemed earned, and will be released to you or your designated brokerage account as soon as practicable after December 31, 2007. As a result of the escrow arrangement and continued risk of forfeiture as otherwise described in this Agreement, your restricted stock will not be considered vested for tax purposes, and the exercise of any stock options that become vested under this Agreement will not be deemed to occur for tax purposes, and thus will not be considered taxable income to you, until December 31, 2007. You agree to comply with all reporting and other requirements under the federal securities laws with respect to your transactions in the securities of Rockwell Automation. You shall be released from any share ownership requirements for Rockwell Automation executives as of the date you execute this Agreement.
i. "Competitive Business" means any corporation, partnership, association, or other person or entity, including but not limited to you, (A) which competes directly, or is planning to compete directly with Rockwell Automation, its subsidiaries or its other affiliates with respect to the design, development, manufacture, remanufacture, assembly, marketing, sales or service of any industrial automation (information or power control technology) about which you received Confidential Information or Trade Secrets at any time within eighteen (18) months prior to your termination date, and (B) which engages or plans to engage in such competition in any country of the World in which Rockwell Automation, its subsidiaries or its other affiliates sold or distributed, or actively attempted to sell or distribute, such products within eighteen (18) months prior to your termination date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Competitive Business" shall not include any division, subsidiary or affiliate of a Competitive Business (as defined hereinabove) that does not either (A) compete directly with Rockwell Automation, its subsidiaries or its other affiliates with respect to the design, development, manufacture, remanufacture, assembly, marketing, sales or service of any industrial automation (information or power control technology) about which you received Confidential Information or Trade Secrets at any time within eighteen (18) months prior to your termination date, or (B) engage or plans to engage in such competition in any country of the World in which Rockwell Automation, its subsidiaries or its other affiliates sold or distributed, or actively attempted to sell or distribute, such products within eighteen (18) months prior to your termination date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you shall not be deemed to be in violation of Section 4.E of this Agreement, if you commence employment with an entity which is not a Competitive Business on the date you commence employment provided that on the date you commence such employment you did not know that such entity was actively planning to compete directly with Rockwell Automation in the manner described in this definition and further provided that, prior to your acceptance of such employment, you disclosed the non-competition provisions of this Section 4 to such entity and received written confirmation from the entity that, in its opinion, it is not a Competitive Business as of the date of your acceptance of employment.
ii. "Confidential Information" means information related to Rockwell Automation's or its subsidiaries' or other affiliates' business, not generally known in the trade or industry, which you learned or created during the period of your active employment, which may include but is not limited to information concerning financial reports and analysis, cost data and cost structures, financial arrangements, business, financial and strategic plans, costs, margins, product specifications, manufacturing procedures, methods, equipment, compositions, technology, formulas, know-how, research and development programs, sales methods, customer lists, customer usages and requirements, computer programs, employee performance and compensation information, recruiting information, and other confidential technical or business information and data.
iii. "Goodwill" means any tendency of customers, distributors, representatives, employees, or federal, state, local or foreign governmental entities to continue or renew any valuable business relationship with Rockwell Automation, its subsidiaries or its other affiliates or any Competitive Business with which you may be associated, based in whole or in part on past successful relationships with Rockwell Automation, its subsidiaries or its other affiliates or the lawful efforts of Rockwell Automation, its subsidiaries or its other affiliates to foster such relationships, and in which you, or any personnel reporting directly to you, actively participated at any time within eighteen (18) months prior to your termination date.
iv. "Trade Secret(s)" means information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique or process, that derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to, and not being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, and that is the subject of efforts to maintain its secrecy that are reasonable under the circumstances.
In consideration for your agreements herein, Rockwell Automation, on behalf of itself and the other Company Releasees, agrees to and hereby releases and waives any and all claims it or any other Company Releasee may have, or may believe it has, against you and your heirs, dependents, estate, agents, and all such successors and assigns relating to or arising out of your employment or your separation, including any claim or right in contract or tort, based on or arising under any federal or state statute or based on any common law duty you may have, which claims are known by the Chief Executive Officer, General Counsel and/or Senior Vice President of Human Resources of Rockwell Automation as of the date this Agreement is executed by Rockwell Automation. Rockwell Automation, on behalf of itself and any other Company Releasee, agrees not to file a lawsuit or request arbitration asserting claims released in this Section 5. Rockwell Automation agrees that if it violates this Agreement by suing you or any of your released parties herein with respect to a claim released by you in this Section 5, or if any other Company Releasee sues you with respect to a claim Rockwell Automation released on its behalf in this Section 5, Rockwell Automation will pay all reasonable costs and expenses of defending the suit incurred by you (or any other party released in this Section 5). This release does not extend to claims that are not known by the Chief Executive Officer, General Counsel and/or Senior Vice President of Human Resources of Rockwell Automation as of the date Rockwell Automation signs this Agreement, other future claims arising after Rockwell Automation signs this Agreement, or to any claim that cannot be released herein as a matter of law.
You understand that you have at least 21 days within which to consider this Agreement, that you have had reasonable time within which to consider this Agreement and that you may revoke the Agreement within 7 days of signing it. However, the Agreement will not become effective until the revocation period has expired; provided that once executed by Rockwell Automation, Rockwell Automation cannot revoke its agreement to this Agreement and, as such, this Agreement shall only fail to become effective if you revoke the Agreement within 7 days of signing it.
Sincerely,
ROCKWELL AUTOMATION, INC.


