FILE:ROK/ROK-8K-20070702145802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Registrant's press release dated July 2, 2007, announcing that it has acquired Industrial Control Services Group Limited, a corporation headquartered in the United Kingdom which does business as ICS Triplex, is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99 Press Release of Registrant dated July 2, 2007
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

1201 South Second Street Milwaukee, WI 53204 USA
Fax: 414.382.4347
MILWAUKEE (July 2, 2007)  Rockwell Automation, Inc. (NYSE: ROK) announced today that it has acquired Industrial Control Services Group Limited which does business as ICS Triplex. As first announced on May 25, 2007, the deal is valued at 110 million (British pounds) in cash. The process of delivering cash to ICS shareholders will continue through August, 2007.
ICS Triplex is a leading global supplier of critical control and safety solutions to process industries. Headquartered in Maldon, United Kingdom, ICS Triplex has more than 500 employees and operations across Europe, the Middle East, Asia and North America. With 40 years of experience, ICS Triplex develops, delivers and maintains advanced products and solutions for high availability, fault-tolerant applications in process industry segments worldwide. These industries primarily include oil and gas exploration, production, transportation, and refining as well as chemicals and power generation.
"This strategic acquisition significantly expands our broad portfolio of process control and safety solutions that meet the needs of both Rockwell Automation and ICS Triplex customers around the world," said Terry Gebert, vice president and general manager, Rockwell Automation Manufacturing & Process Solutions business.
"Increased demand for oil and gas due to the economic growth of China, India, Brazil and Russia is fueling investments in oil and gas production and in refining, leading to increased demand for safety systems," according to Asish Ghosh, Vice President ARC Advisory Group. "With the acquisition of ICS Triplex, Rockwell Automation will gain a strong foothold in the oil and gas, chemical, and power generation industries and will significantly improve their capabilities in the fast-growing process safety systems and services market."
ICS Triplex will continue to operate under its current brand name as a subsidiary of Rockwell Automation. It will be included in the Control Products & Solutions operating segment.
This news release contains statements (including certain projections and business trends) accompanied by such phrases as "believe", "estimate", "expect", "anticipate", "will", "intend" and other similar expressions, that are "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to:
These forward-looking statements reflect our beliefs as of the date of filing this release. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
. (NYSE: ROK), is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information systems and services that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage in their businesses. The company brings together leading brands in industrial automation, including Allen-Bradley controls and services and Rockwell Software factory management software. Headquartered in Milwaukee, Wis., the company employs about 19,000 people serving customers in more than 80 countries.
Rockwell Automation, Inc


