FILE:ROK/ROK-8K-20070124095950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 24, 2007, Registrant made available on its website summary financial information to supplement the audited financial statements set forth in Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006, which summary financial information is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference. This summary financial information is unaudited and subject to revision.
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
     The information set forth under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits
       99        Supplemental Financial Data issued January 24, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  January 24, 2007
 

 
 
The following summary financial information is being provided to supplement the audited financial statements set forth in Rockwell Automation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006.
This summary financial information has been derived from the audited financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006, restated to present the following:
- reclassification of the Power Systems and Commercial Motion businesses as discontinued operations; and - - presentation of the Control Systems business as two operating segments consistent with those being reported beginning in fiscal 2007.
This summary financial information is unaudited and subject to revision. Additionally, this summary information includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to page 12 for a definition of these non-GAAP measures and why management believes this information is useful to investors.
All information should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements contained in Rockwell Automation's Annual Report on Form 10-K, periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and public announcements of financial information. Copies of these reports are available on our website at
www.rockwellautomation.com
or upon request from Rockwell Automation.
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
 
8
 
9
 
 
10
 
 
11
 
Free Cash Flow
We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities of continuing and discontinued operations plus the excess income tax benefit from the exercise of stock options, reduced by capital expenditures of continuing and discontinued operations. Our definition of free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, takes into consideration capital investments required to maintain the operations of our businesses and execute our strategy. In the first quarter of 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R, which requires that we report excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation as a financing cash flow rather than as an operating cash flow. We have added this benefit back to our calculation of free cash flow in order to consistently classify all cash flows arising from income taxes as operating cash flows.
In our opinion, free cash flow provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to generate cash from business operations that is available for acquisitions and other investments, service of debt principal, dividends and share repurchases. We use free cash flow as one measure to monitor and evaluate performance. Our definition of free cash flow may differ from definitions used by other companies.
The following is a reconciliation of cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow:
Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change
Effective September 30, 2006, we adopted FIN 47, which clarifies the guidance included in SFAS No. 143, (SFAS 143). Under FIN 47, companies must accrue for costs related to a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset that results from the acquisition, construction, development or the normal operation of the long-lived asset. The application of FIN 47 resulted in a charge to continuing operations, net of tax, of $17.7 million included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended September 30, 2006 as the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
12


