FILE:ROK/ROK-8K-20070406113631.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) and (c) On April 4, 2007, James V. Gelly resigned as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Rockwell Automation, Inc. (the "Company"). To assist in the transition of his duties, Mr. Gelly is expected to continue as a non-executive employee of the Company through September 30, 2007 during which time he will be paid a salary and receive benefits at levels equivalent to those in effect immediately prior to his resignation. It is anticipated that the Company and Mr. Gelly will discuss a formal separation arrangement in the near future. Upon Mr. Gellys resignation, the Companys Board of Directors elected Theodore D. Crandall as Chief Financial Officer of the Company on an interim basis. Mr. Crandall, age 51, has served as a Senior Vice President of the Company since February 2004 and served as head of what is now the Companys Control Products & Solutions segment since August 2000. During his career with the Company, Mr. Crandall has served in a broad range of senior operational and finance roles across the Companys organization, including vice president of finance and business planning for the Companys business unit that was the predecessor to what is now the Architecture and Software segment. On April 5, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the foregoing management changes. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99 Press Release of the Company dated April 5, 2007
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

1201 S. Second Street Milwaukee, WI 53204 USA Fax: 414.382.5560
MILWAUKEE, WI, (April 5, 2007)  Rockwell Automation, Inc. (NYSE: ROK) announced today that James V. Gelly has resigned from his position as the company's senior vice president and chief financial officer to pursue new challenges and opportunities. Gelly is expected to remain with the company's finance function over the next several months in an advisory capacity, in order to ensure a seamless transition. Replacing Gelly as chief financial officer on an interim basis is Theodore D. Crandall, senior vice president and head of the Control Products & Solutions segment.
Keith D. Nosbusch, chairman and chief executive officer, said, "James Gelly has made significant contributions to Rockwell Automation over the past three years, and his efforts are reflected in the accuracy and strength of our financial reporting. We appreciate all that James has done for Rockwell Automation, and we wish him the best for the future."
Crandall previously served in a broad range of senior operational and finance roles across the Rockwell Automation organization, including vice president of finance and business planning for the company's business unit that was the predecessor to what is now the Architecture and Software segment.
While Crandall serves as the company's interim chief financial officer, Kenneth Champa will act as the interim head of the company's Control Products & Solutions segment. Champa is currently vice president, finance for that segment.
Gelly said, "I am pleased to have had the opportunity to serve as the company's CFO and am confident of the organization's great success. Going forward, I am committed to working closely with Ted and the management team to facilitate a smooth transition."
The company is launching a search, and will consider both internal and external candidates to serve as the company's chief financial officer on a permanent basis.
Rockwell Automation, Inc. (NYSE: ROK), is a leading global provider of industrial automation control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage in their businesses. The company brings together leading global brands in industrial automation which include Allen-Bradley controls and services and Rockwell Software factory management software. Headquartered in Milwaukee, Wis., the company employs about 19,000 people serving customers in more than 80 countries.
# # # #


