FILE:ROK/ROK-8K-20071016165409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c) Effective October 13, 2007, the Companys Board of Directors elected Theodore D. Crandall as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Crandall, age 52, has served as interim Chief Financial Officer since April 4, 2007 and as a Senior Vice President of the Company since February 2004. Previously, he served as head of what is now the Companys Control Products & Solutions segment from August 2000 until April 2007. During his career with the Company, Mr. Crandall has served in a broad range of senior operational and finance roles across the Companys organization, including vice president of finance and business planning for the Companys business unit that was the predecessor to what is now the Architecture and Software segment. On October 15, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Crandalls election. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99 Press Release of the Company dated October 15, 2007
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

1201 South Second Street Milwaukee, WI 53204 USA Fax: 414.382.5560
MILWAUKEE (October 15, 2007)  Rockwell Automation, Inc. (NYSE: ROK) announced today that Theodore D. Crandall has been named senior vice president and chief financial officer. Crandall, 52, served as interim CFO since April 2007, and was previously senior vice president and head of the Control Products & Solutions segment.
"Ted is the ideal CFO for Rockwell Automation," said Keith D. Nosbusch, chairman and chief executive officer. "His outstanding leadership skills, business savvy, financial acumen and significant knowledge of Rockwell Automation make him uniquely qualified to advance both our growth and productivity strategies." Crandall's appointment comes after a thorough review of both internal and external candidates.
Since joining the company in 1978, Crandall has served in a broad range of finance and operational roles across the Rockwell Automation organization, including vice president of finance and business planning for the company's business unit that was the predecessor to the Architecture & Software segment. He was also vice president and controller with Electronics Corporation of America when it was acquired by Rockwell. A graduate of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Crandall received a bachelor's degree in Management Science and Economics and a master's degree in Industrial Administration.
The company also named Robert Ruff to lead the Control Products & Solutions segment reporting to Nosbusch. Ruff was previously senior vice president, Americas Sales.
"Bob accelerated programs that increased our market share in the Americas region and drove significant business performance results," said Nosbusch.
Ruff joined Reliance Electric in 1976 and progressed through increasingly responsible positions in both business and sales roles including broad experience in our solutions and services activities. He received his degree in Electrical Engineering from Akron University.
(NYSE: ROK), is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage in their businesses. The company brings together leading global brands in industrial automation which include Allen-Bradley controls and services and Rockwell Software factory management software. Headquartered in Milwaukee, Wis., the company employs about 19,000 people serving customers in more than 80 countries.
Rockwell Automation, Inc.


