FILE:ROK/ROK-8K-20090728074903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Registrant's press release dated July 28, 2009, announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 28, 2009
 

Exhibit 99
1201 S. Second Street Milwaukee, WI 53204 USA Fax: 414.382.5560
News Release
Rockwell Automation Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results
MILWAUKEE (July 28, 2009)  Rockwell Automation, Inc. (NYSE: ROK) today reported fiscal 2009 third quarter revenue of $1,010.8 million, down 31 percent compared to $1,475.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Currency translation contributed 5 percentage points to the decline, partially offset by 1 percentage point of growth from acquisitions. Fiscal 2009 third quarter revenue was down 4 percent sequentially compared to the second quarter of this fiscal year. Fiscal 2009 third quarter net income was $32.8 million or $0.23 per share, compared to $152.6 million or $1.03 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
 
Segment operating earnings were $86.3 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, down from $258.3 million in the same period of 2008. Earnings decreased primarily due to the significant revenue decline, partially offset by cost reductions. Segment operating margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 was 8.5 percent, 9.0 percentage points lower than the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
Third quarter of fiscal 2009 free cash flow from continuing operations was $168.5 million versus $151.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Free cash flow in the quarter benefited primarily from working capital reductions and lower capital expenditures. Return on invested capital was 14.8 percent.
Free cash flow and return on invested capital are non-GAAP measures that are defined in the attachments to this release under "Other Supplemental Information".
Commenting on the fiscal third quarter results, chairman and chief executive officer Keith D. Nosbusch said, "Revenue and earnings were largely in line with our expectations, although the revenue decline in our solutions business was somewhat higher than anticipated. Despite lower sequential revenue in the third quarter, segment operating margin improved, primarily due to favorable revenue mix and cost savings. We were pleased that we generated strong free cash flow again this quarter. Our employees have responded well in this challenging environment by remaining focused on our customers' needs while delivering operational improvements."
 
Commenting on the outlook for fiscal 2009, Nosbusch said, "Based on mixed results in macroeconomic indicators and stabilization in our own demand trends, it appears that we may be approaching the bottom of the cycle. However, the outlook for the global economy is still uncertain, and we have yet to see evidence of an upturn. We are reaffirming our fiscal 2009 earnings per share guidance of $1.40 to $1.70, excluding any restructuring charges related to actions that we may take in the fiscal fourth quarter."
Outlook
Nosbusch added, "In this difficult business environment, we remain focused on cost control and cash management while continuing to invest in our core technologies. As markets recover, we will benefit from the combination of our talented and dedicated employees and partners, differentiated technology, increasingly diverse revenue base and strong balance sheet."
Following is a discussion of third quarter results for both segments.
Architecture & Software fiscal 2009 third quarter sales were $399.5 million, a decrease of 36 percent from $625.7 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Currency translation contributed 5 percentage points to the decline. Fiscal 2009 third quarter sales were up 2 percent sequentially compared to $393.5 million in the second quarter of this fiscal year. Segment operating earnings were $43.3 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to $154.7 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Architecture & Software segment operating margin was 10.8 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to 24.7 percent in the same period of 2008.
Architecture & Software
 
Control Products & Solutions fiscal 2009 third quarter sales were $611.3 million, a decrease of 28 percent from $849.3 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Currency translation contributed 5 percentage points to the decline, partially offset by about 1 percentage point of growth from acquisitions. Fiscal 2009 third quarter sales were down 8 percent sequentially compared to $664.6 million in the second quarter of this fiscal year. Segment operating earnings were $43.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to $103.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Control Products & Solutions segment operating margin was 7.0 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to 12.2 percent in the same period of 2008.
Control Products & Solutions
Fiscal 2009 third quarter general corporate net expense was $16.3 million, $5.6 million lower than the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
General Corporate  Net
The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 was 34.7 percent, compared to 28.5 percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2008. The tax rate for the quarter was unfavorably impacted by tax on a dividend related to the planned disposal of a non-U.S. subsidiary. For fiscal 2009, the Company now expects the full year tax rate to be in the range of 22 to 25 percent.
Income Taxes
 
A conference call to discuss our financial results will take place at 8:30 A.M. Eastern Time on July 28. The call and related financial charts will be webcast and accessible via the Rockwell Automation website (.
Conference Call
www.rockwellautomation.com)
 
This news release contains statements (including certain projections and business trends) that are "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "believe", "estimate", "project", "plan", "expect", "anticipate", "will", "intend" and other similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to:
These forward-looking statements reflect our beliefs as of the date of filing this release. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Rockwell Automation, Inc. (NYSE: ROK), the world's largest company dedicated to industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable. Headquartered in Milwaukee, Wis., Rockwell Automation employs about 20,000 people serving customers in more than 80 countries.
 
 
 
 
 
Organic Sales
Our press release contains information regarding sales excluding the effect of changes in currency and organic sales, which we define as sales excluding the effect of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions. We believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors because they reflect regional performance from our activities without the effect of changes in currency exchange rates and/or acquisitions. We use organic sales and sales excluding the effect of changes in currency as two measures to monitor and evaluate our regional performance. We determine the effect of changes in currency exchange rates by translating the respective period's sales using the currency exchange rates that were in effect during the prior year. When we acquire businesses, we exclude sales in the current year for which there are no comparable sales in the prior period. Organic sales growth is calculated by comparing organic sales to reported sales in the prior year. Sales are attributed to the geographic regions based on the country of destination.
The following is a reconciliation of reported sales to organic sales for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2009 compared to sales for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2008:
The following is a reconciliation of reported sales to organic sales for our operating segments for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2009 compared to sales for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2008:
 
Free Cash Flow
Our definition of free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, takes into consideration capital investments required to maintain the operations of our businesses and execute our strategy. We account for share-based compensation under SFAS 123(R), which requires that we report the excess income tax benefit from share-based compensation as a financing cash flow rather than as an operating cash flow. We have added this benefit back to our calculation of free cash flow in order to generally classify cash flows arising from income taxes as operating cash flows.
In our opinion, free cash flow provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to generate cash from business operations that is available for acquisitions and other investments, service of debt principal, dividends and share repurchases. We use free cash flow, as defined, as one measure to monitor and evaluate performance. Our definition of free cash flow may differ from definitions used by other companies.
Our definition of free cash flow excludes the operating cash flows and capital expenditures related to our discontinued operations. Operating, investing and financing cash flows of our discontinued operations are presented separately in our statement of cash flows. Cash flows from the operating activities of our discontinued operations are reported in our statement of cash flows net of their separately calculated income tax effects. U.S. federal and state income taxes paid as a result of the gain on sale of the principal businesses of our former Power Systems operating segment have been classified within continuing operations consistent with the cash proceeds. These taxes paid in the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008 have been excluded from free cash flow to present free cash flow that is representative of the performance of our continuing businesses.
The following table summarizes free cash flow by quarter:
Return On Invested Capital
Our press release contains information regarding Return On Invested Capital (ROIC), which is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe that ROIC is useful to investors as a measure of performance and of the effectiveness of the use of capital in our operations. We use ROIC as one measure to monitor and evaluate performance. Our measure of ROIC is likely to differ from that used by other companies. We define ROIC as the percentage resulting from the following calculation:
(a) Income from continuing operations, before non-operating gains or losses, special items, interest expense, income tax provision, and purchase accounting depreciation and amortization, divided by;
(b) average invested capital for the year, calculated as a five quarter rolling average using the sum of short-term debt, long-term debt, shareowners' equity, and accumulated amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets, minus cash and cash equivalents, multiplied by;
(c) one minus the effective tax rate for the period.
ROIC is calculated as follows:


