FILE:ROK/ROK-8K-20100610160649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On June 4, 2010, our Board of Directors approved amendments to the Rockwell Automation, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentives Plan (the LTIP Amendments). Our 2008 Long-Term Incentives Plan (the 2008 Plan) was originally adopted by our Board of Directors on December 5, 2007 and approved by our shareowners on February 4, 2008. On December 9, 2009, the Board approved amendments to the 2008 Plan and the 2008 Plan, as amended, was approved by our shareowners on February 2, 2010.
The LTIP Amendments (i) impose minimum vesting periods for all performance shares and performance units granted after June 4, 2010, except in the event of death, disability, retirement or change of control; and (ii) require shareowner approval to accelerate the exercisability of, or the lapse of restrictions on, performance shares and performance units, except in the event of death, disability, retirement or change of control.
The 2008 Plan, as amended, permits the grant of a variety of awards to employees (including our named executive officers) and prospective employees, including stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units and performance shares.
The foregoing description of the 2008 Plan, as amended, is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2008 Plan, as amended, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference. The copy of the 2008 Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 99 is marked to show the LTIP Amendments.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99. Rockwell Automation, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentives Plan, as amended and restated through June 4, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 10, 2010
 

EXHIBIT 99
Section 1: Purpose
The purpose of the Plan is to promote the interests of the Corporation and its shareowners by providing incentive compensation opportunities to assist in (i) attracting, motivating and retaining Employees and Prospective Employees and (ii) aligning the interests of Employees and Prospective Employees participating in the Plan with the interests of the Corporation's shareowners.
Section 2: Definitions
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the respective meanings specified below.
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: Eligibility
The Committee may grant one or more Awards to any Employee or Prospective Employee designated by it to receive an Award.
Section 4: Awards
The Committee may grant any one or more of the following types of Awards, and any such Award may be granted by itself, together with another Award that is linked and alternative to the Award with which it is granted or together with another Award that is independent of the Award with which it is granted:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: Stock Available under Plan
 
Section 6: Award Agreements
Each Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the terms and conditions applicable to the Award, including but not limited to (i) provisions for the time at which the Award becomes exercisable or otherwise vests; (ii) provisions for the treatment of the Award in the event of the termination of a Participant's status as an Employee; (iii) any special provisions applicable in the event of an occurrence of a Change of Control, as determined by the Committee consistent with the provisions of the Plan; and (iv) in the Committee's sole discretion, any additional provisions as may be necessary to (A) satisfy the requirements for exemption under Section 409A or (B) satisfy the requirements of Section 409A.
Section 7: Amendment and Termination
The Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or terminate the Plan, in whole or in part; that, without the approval of the shareowners of the Corporation, no such action shall (i) increase the number of shares of Stock available for delivery pursuant to the Plan as set forth in Section 5 (other than adjustments pursuant to Section 9), (ii) change the class of persons eligible to participate in the Plan, (iii) amend Section 4(a)(v) to allow for accelerated exercisability of Awards of Options described in such clause, (iv) amend Section 4(b)(iv) to allow for accelerated exercisability of Awards of SARs described in such clause, (v) amend the second sentence of Section 4(c) to allow for accelerated lapses of restrictions on Awards of Restricted Stock described in such sentence, (vi) amend the second sentence of Section 4(d) to allow for accelerated payouts of Awards of Restricted Stock Units described in such sentence, ) materially increase the
provided, however,
or (vii
(vii) amend the second sentence of Section 4(e) to allow for accelerated payouts of Awards of Performance Units described in such sentence, (viii) amend the second sentence of Section 4(f) to allow for accelerated payouts of Awards of Performance Shares described in such sentence, or (ix
 
benefits accruing to Participants under the Plan, or otherwise be effective to the extent that such approval is necessary to comply with any tax or regulatory requirement applicable to the Plan, including applicable requirements of the New York Stock Exchange; and that, subject to Section 9, no such action shall impair the rights of any holder of an Award without the holder's consent. The Committee may, subject to the Plan, at any time alter or amend any or all Award Agreements to the extent permitted by applicable law; that, subject to Section 9, (A) no such alteration or amendment shall impair the rights of any holder of an Award without the holder's consent and (B) without the approval of the shareowners of the Corporation, no such alteration or amendment shall accelerate (x) the exercisability of an Award of Options or SARs, (y) the lapse of restrictions on an Award of Restricted Stock or (z) the payout of an Award of Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units or Performance Shares, except, in each case described in this clause (B), in the event of death, disability, retirement or a Change of Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Board of Directors nor the Committee shall (except pursuant to Section 9) amend the Plan or any Award Agreement to reprice any Option or SAR whose exercise price is above the then Fair Market Value of the Stock subject to the Award, whether by decreasing the exercise price, canceling the Award and granting a substitute Award, repurchasing the Award for cash, or otherwise.
provided, further,
provided, however,
Section 8: Administration
 
Section 9: Adjustment Provisions
 
Section 10: Miscellaneous
 
 
 


