FILE:ROK/ROK-8K-20100927163553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On September 27, 2010, the Company entered into change of control agreements with Keith D. Nosbusch, Theodore D. Crandall, Steven A. Eisenbrown, Douglas M. Hagerman and Robert A. Ruff (the "Agreements"). The Agreements will replace the Change of Control Agreements dated November 7, 2007 between the Company and the executives, which expire by their terms on September 30, 2010 (the "Old Agreements"). The Agreements become effective if there is a change of control of the Company after September 30, 2010 and before October 1, 2013. The terms and conditions set forth in the Agreements are substantially the same as those set forth in the Old Agreements (which are summarized in our most recent Proxy Statement dated December 11, 2009), except that the Agreements do not include a provision contained in the Old Agreements that entitled the executives to receive additional payments to compensate them for any excise tax imposed on change of control payments.
The foregoing description of the Agreements is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement with Mr. Nosbusch and the form of Agreement with the other officers, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and are incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Change of Control Agreement dated as of September 27, 2010 between the Company and Keith D. Nosbusch.
99.2 Form of Change of Control Agreement dated as of September 27, 2010 between the Company and each of Theodore D. Crandall, Steven A. Eisenbrown, Douglas M. Hagerman and Robert A. Ruff.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 27, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
AGREEMENT by and between Rockwell Automation, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Keith D. Nosbusch (the "Executive"), dated as of the 27th day of September, 2010.
The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareowners to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of the Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company. The Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of the Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change of Control and to encourage the Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change of Control, and to provide the Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change of Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of the Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations. Therefore, in order to accomplish these objectives, the Board has caused the Company to enter into this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1. . (a) The "Effective Date" shall mean the first date during the Change of Control Period (as defined in Section 1(b)) on which a Change of Control (as defined in Section 2) occurs. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if a "Change of Control Event" (as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(i) and as set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)-(vii), applying the default rules and percentages set forth in such regulation under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended) ("409A Change of Control") occurs and if the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated prior to the date on which the 409A Change of Control occurs, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a 409A Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a 409A Change of Control, then for all purposes of this Agreement the "Effective Date" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment and such termination of employment shall be hereinafter referred to as "Pre-Change of Control Termination".
Certain Definitions
(b) The "Change of Control Period" shall mean the period commencing on October 1, 2010 and ending on September 30, 2013.
 
2. . For the purpose of this Agreement, a "Change of Control" shall mean:
Change of Control
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (c) of this Section 2; or
provided
however
(b) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareowners, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
provided
however
(c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another corporation (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
(d) Approval by the shareowners of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if the Executive incurs a Pre-Change of Control Termination then, for purposes of determining whether a Change of Control has occurred for purposes of the Executive's entitlement to payments and benefits provided pursuant to Section 6 of this Agreement, the definition of 409A Change of Control shall be substituted for the definition of Change of Control set forth in this Section 2.
 
3. . The Company hereby agrees to continue the Executive in its employ, and the Executive hereby agrees to remain in the employ of the Company subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the second anniversary of such date (the "Protected Period").
Protected Period
4. . (a) . (i) During the Protected Period, (A) the Executive's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties and responsibilities shall be at least commensurate in all material respects with the most significant of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date and (B) the Executive's services shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately preceding the Effective Date or any office or location less than 35 miles from such location.
Terms of Employment
Position and
Duties
(ii) During the Protected Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote reasonable attention and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Protected Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any such activities have been conducted by the Executive prior to the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or the conduct of activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to the Effective Date shall not thereafter be deemed to interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities to the Company.
(b) . (i) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall receive an annual base salary ("Annual Base Salary"), which shall be paid at a monthly rate payable in accordance with normal payroll practices no less frequently than monthly, at least equal to twelve times the highest monthly base salary paid or payable, including any base salary which has been earned but deferred, to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies in respect of the twelve-month period immediately preceding the month in which the Effective Date occurs. During the Protected Period, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed no more than 12 months after the last salary increase awarded to the Executive prior to the Effective Date and thereafter at least annually. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or reduce any other obligation to the Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase and the term Annual Base Salary as utilized in this Agreement shall refer to Annual Base Salary as so increased. As used in this Agreement, the term "affiliated companies" shall include any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company.
Compensation
Base Salary
 
(ii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary, the Executive shall be awarded, for each fiscal year ending during the Protected Period, an annual bonus (the "Annual Bonus") in cash at least equal to the Executive's highest bonus under the Company's annual incentive plans, or any comparable bonus under any predecessor or successor plan, for the last three full fiscal years prior to the Effective Date (annualized in the event that the Executive was not employed by the Company for the whole of such fiscal year) (the "Recent Annual Bonus"). Each such Annual Bonus shall be paid no later than the end of the third month of the fiscal year next following the fiscal year for which the Annual Bonus is awarded, unless the Executive shall elect to defer the receipt of such Annual Bonus pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan.
Annual Bonus
(iii) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all incentive, savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs applicable generally to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide the Executive with incentive opportunities (measured with respect to both regular and special incentive opportunities, to the extent, if any, that such distinction is applicable), savings opportunities and retirement benefit opportunities, in each case, less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies for the Executive under such plans, practices, policies and programs as in effect at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or if more favorable to the Executive, those provided generally at any time after the Effective Date to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans
(iv) . During the Protected Period, the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as the case may be, shall be entitled to participate in and shall receive all benefits under welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company and its affiliated companies (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent applicable generally to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide the Executive with benefits which are less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of such plans, practices, policies and programs in effect for the Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, those provided generally at any time after the Effective Date to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Welfare Benefit Plans
(v) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the most favorable policies, practices and procedures of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Expenses
 
(vi) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to fringe benefits, including, without limitation, tax and financial planning services, payment of club dues, and, if applicable, use of an automobile and payment of related expenses, in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Fringe Benefits
(vii) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to exclusive personal secretarial and other assistance, at least equal to the most favorable of the foregoing provided to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as provided generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Office and Support Staff
(viii) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company and its affiliated companies as in effect for the Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Vacation
5. . (a) . The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Protected Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability of the Executive has occurred during the Protected Period (pursuant to the definition of Disability set forth below), it may give to the Executive written notice in accordance with Section 12(b) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" shall mean the absence of the Executive from the Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Executive or the Executive's legal representative.
Termination of Employment
Death or Disability
(b) . The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Protected Period for Cause. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean:
Cause
(i) the willful and continued failure of the Executive to perform substantially the Executive's duties with the Company or one of its affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which the Board or Chief Executive Officer believes that the Executive has not substantially performed the Executive's duties, or
(ii) the willful engaging by the Executive in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company.
 
For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act, on the part of the Executive, shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. The cessation of employment of the Executive shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Executive and the Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, the Executive is guilty of the conduct described in subparagraph (i) or (ii) above, and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
(c) . The Executive's employment may be terminated by the Executive for Good Reason. For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean:
Good Reason
(i) the assignment to the Executive of any duties inconsistent in any respect with the Executive's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 4(a) of this Agreement, or any other action by the Company which results in a diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities, including for this purpose a diminution of duties resulting from the Company no longer being required to file reports under the Exchange Act without any further specific action by the Company, and excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;
(ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4(b) of this Agreement, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;
(iii) the Company's requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location other than as provided in Section 4(a)(i)(B) hereof or the Company's requiring the Executive to travel on Company business to a substantially greater extent than required immediately prior to the Effective Date;
(iv) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; or
(v) any failure by the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 11(c) of this Agreement.
 
For purposes of this Section 5(c), any good faith determination of "Good Reason" made by the Executive shall be conclusive. The Executive's rights to terminate employment for "Good Reason" under this Agreement upon any event giving rise to such right shall not be affected by any incapacity of the Executive due to physical or mental illness following such event.
(d) . Any termination of employment by the Company for Cause, or by the Executive for Good Reason, shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 12(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than thirty days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company, respectively, hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company, respectively, from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
Notice of Termination
(e) . "Date of Termination" means (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, or by the Executive for Good Reason, the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein, as the case may be, (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Company notifies the Executive of such termination and (iii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
Date of Termination
6. . (a) . If, during the Protected Period, the Company shall terminate the Executive's employment other than for Cause, Death or Disability or the Executive shall terminate employment for Good Reason:
Obligations of the Company upon Termination
Good Reason; Other Than for Cause, Death or Disability
(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the Executive's "separation from service" ("Separation from Service") within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder ("Section 409A") the aggregate of the following amounts:
A. the sum of (1) the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, and (2) any compensation previously deferred by the Executive (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon) but only to the extent that such deferred compensation is "grandfathered" under and not subject to the rules of Section 409A, and any accrued vacation pay, in each case to the extent not theretofore paid (the sum of the amounts described in clauses (1) and (2) shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Accrued Obligations");
 
B. subject to Section 6(e) of this Agreement, the product of (x) the average of the Executive's annual bonuses paid or payable under the Company's annual incentive plan, or any comparable bonus under any predecessor or successor plan, for the last three full fiscal years prior to the Date of Termination (annualized in the event that the Executive was not employed by the Company for the whole of any such fiscal year), and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed months in the current fiscal year prior to the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 12; and
C. subject to Section 6(e) of this Agreement, the amount equal to the product of (1) three and (2) the sum of (x) the Executive's Annual Base Salary and (y) the Executive's target Annual Bonus payable under the Company's annual incentive plan in effect with respect to the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs.
(ii) subject to Section 6(e) of this Agreement, for three years after the Executive's Date of Termination, or such longer period as may be provided by the terms of the appropriate plan, program, practice or policy (the "Benefits Continuation Period"), the Company shall continue benefits specified on Exhibit 1 to this Agreement to the Executive and/or the Executive's family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section 4(b)(iv) of this Agreement if the Executive's employment had not been terminated or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families, , , that if the Executive becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive medical or other welfare benefits under another employer provided plan, the medical and other welfare benefits described herein shall be secondary to those provided under such other plan during such applicable period of eligibility. For purposes of determining eligibility (but not the time of commencement of benefits) of the Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans, practices, programs and policies, the Executive shall be considered to have remained employed until three years after the Date of Termination and to have retired on the last day of such period; and further provided that the existence of the Benefits Continuation Period shall not in any way offset or otherwise limit the Executive's entitlement to coverage under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended, which will commence at the end of the Benefits Continuation Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any benefit is a "deferral of compensation" that is subject to Section 409A, except as otherwise permitted by Section 409A, (A) to the extent that any such benefit is provided via reimbursement to the Executive or is an in-kind benefit, such reimbursement or benefit will be made or provided promptly by the Company and in no event later than the end of the year following the year in which the underlying expense is incurred, (B) any such benefit provided by the Company in any year will not be affected by the amount of any such benefit provided in any other year, provided that this subclause (B) shall not be violated with regard to expenses reimbursed under any arrangement covered by Section 105(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") solely because such expenses are subject to a limit related to amounts that may be reimbursed during the period the arrangement is in effect, and (C) under no circumstances will the Executive be permitted to liquidate or exchange any such benefit for cash or any other benefits;
provided
however
 
(iii) the Company shall, at its sole expense as incurred, provide the Executive with reasonable outplacement services the scope and provider of which shall be selected by the Executive in his sole discretion; and
(iv) subject to Section 6(e) of this Agreement, to the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the Company shall timely pay or provide to the Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which the Executive is eligible to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliated companies (such other amounts and benefits shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Other Benefits"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, any compensation previously deferred by the Executive that is subject to Section 409A will be payable in accordance with the terms of the plan or arrangement under which the compensation was deferred.
(b) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death during the Protected Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. With respect to the provision of Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as utilized in this Section 6(b) shall include, without limitation, and the Executive's estate and/or beneficiaries shall be entitled to receive, benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits provided by the Company and affiliated companies to the estates and beneficiaries of peer executives of the Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to death benefits, if any, as in effect with respect to other peer executives and their beneficiaries at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive's estate and/or the Executive's beneficiaries, as in effect on the date of the Executive's death with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their beneficiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any compensation previously deferred by the Executive that is subject to Section 409A will be payable in accordance with the terms of the plan or arrangement under which the compensation was deferred.
Death
(c) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Protected Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Executive's Separation from Service. With respect to the provision of Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as utilized in this Section 6(c) shall include, and the Executive shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive, disability and other benefits at least equal to the most favorable of those generally provided by the Company and its affiliated companies to disabled executives and/or their families in accordance with such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to disability, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any compensation previously deferred by the Executive that is subject to Section 409A will be payable in accordance with the terms of the plan or arrangement under which the compensation was deferred.
Disability
 
(d) . If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause during the Protected Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay to the Executive (x) his Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination, (y) the amount of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive, and (z) Other Benefits, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid. If the Executive voluntarily terminates employment during the Protected Period, excluding a termination for Good Reason, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. In such case, all Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Executive's Separation from Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any compensation previously deferred by the Executive that is subject to the rules of Section 409A will be payable in accordance with the terms of the plan or arrangement under which the compensation was deferred.
Cause; Other than for Good Reason
(e) . To the extent that any amount payable or benefit to be provided under this Agreement constitutes an amount payable or benefit to be provided under a "nonqualified deferred compensation plan" (as defined in Section 409A) following a Separation from Service, including any amount payable or benefit to be provided under this Section 6, and to the extent that the Executive is deemed to be a "specified employee" (as that term is defined in Section 409A and pursuant to procedures established by the Company) on the Separation from Service date, then, notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, such payment or benefit provision will not be made to the Executive during the six-month period immediately following his Separation from Service date. Instead, on the first day of the seventh month following such Separation from Service date, all amounts that otherwise would have been paid or provided to the Executive during that six-month period, but were not due to this Section 6(e), will be paid or provided to the Executive at such time, with any cash payment to be made in a single lump sum (without any interest with respect to that six-month period). This six-month delay will cease to be applicable if the Executive incurs a Separation from Service due to death or if he dies before the six-month period has elapsed.
Six-Month Wait for Specified Employees
7. . Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and for which the Executive may qualify, nor, subject to Section 12(f), shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its affiliated companies. If the Executive voluntarily terminates employment or terminates employment for Good Reason during the Protected Period, nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit any rights the Executive may have to any retirement benefits under any plans, programs or policies of the Company. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its affiliated companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
Non-exclusivity of Rights
 
8. . The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Executive obtains other employment. The Company agrees to pay as incurred, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Executive or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code. Any amount payable by the Company in any year pursuant to the prior sentence will not be affected by the amount of any payment made by the Company pursuant to the prior sentence in any other year, and under no circumstances will the Executive by permitted to liquidate or exchange the benefit afforded him in the prior sentence for cash or any other benefit. To the extent any such payment is made via reimbursement to the Executive, no such reimbursement will be made promptly by the Company and in no event later than the end of the year following the year in which the underlying expense is incurred. This Section 8 shall apply only to expenses incurred during the lifetime of the Executive.
Full Settlement
9. . In the event that the benefits provided for in the Agreement, when aggregated with any other payments or benefits received by Executive (the "Aggregate Benefits"), would (i) constitute "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, and (ii) would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (the "Excise Tax"), then Executive's Aggregate Benefits will be either: (a) delivered in full, or (b) delivered as to such lesser extent as would result in no portion of such Aggregate Benefits being subject to the Excise Tax, whichever of the foregoing amounts, taking into account the applicable federal, state and local income taxes and the Excise Tax, results in the receipt by Executive on an after-tax basis of the greatest amount of Aggregate Benefits, notwithstanding that all or some portion of such Aggregate Benefits may be taxable under Section 4999 of the Code. Unless the Company and Executive otherwise agree in writing, any determination required under this paragraph will be made in writing by an independent certified public accounting firm mutually agreeable to the Company and Executive (the "Accounting Firm") whose determination will be conclusive and binding upon Executive and the Company for all purposes. For purposes of making the calculations required by this paragraph, the Accounting Firm may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code. The Company and Executive will furnish to the Accounting Firm such information and documents as the Accounting Firm may reasonably request in order to make a determination under this paragraph. To the extent any reduction in Aggregate Benefits is required by this paragraph, Aggregate Benefits shall be reduced or eliminated in reverse order of time of payment (that is, Aggregate Benefits payable later shall be reduced or eliminated before any reduction or elimination of Aggregate Benefits payable sooner), Aggregate Benefits payable at the same time shall be reduced or eliminated in accordance with the Executive's instructions provided the Company has no reasonable objection thereto, and all reductions or eliminations shall be based on the value of the Aggregate Benefits established for purposes of the determination required under this paragraph. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company.
"Best Net" Provision
 
10. . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its affiliated companies, and their respective businesses, which shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive's employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and which shall not be or become public knowledge (other than by acts by the Executive or representatives of the Executive in violation of this Agreement). After termination of the Executive's employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company or as may otherwise be required by law or legal process, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it. In no event shall an asserted violation of the provisions of this Section 10 constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amounts otherwise payable to the Executive under this Agreement.
Confidential Information
11. . (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives.
Successors
(b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
(c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
12. . (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
Miscellaneous
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
If to the Executive:
Keith D. Nosbusch Rockwell Automation, Inc. 1201 S. Second Street Milwaukee, WI 53204
:
If to the Company
Rockwell Automation, Inc. 1201 S. Second Street Milwaukee, WI 53204
Attention: General Counsel
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
(d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
(e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right the Executive or the Company may have hereunder, including, without limitation, the right of the Executive to terminate employment for Good Reason pursuant to Section 5(c)(i)-(v) of this Agreement, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement.
(f) The Executive and the Company acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between the Executive and the Company, the employment of the Executive by the Company is "at will" and, subject to Section 1(a) hereof, prior to the Effective Date, the Executive's employment may be terminated by either the Executive or the Company at any time prior to the Effective Date, in which case the Executive shall have no further rights under this Agreement. From and after the Effective Date this Agreement shall supersede any other agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
13. . The parties hereto acknowledge that the requirements of the Section 409A are still being interpreted by government agencies, that certain issues under Section 409A remain unclear at this time, and that the parties hereto have made a good faith effort to comply with current guidance under Section 409A. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that amendments to this Agreement are necessary in order to comply with future guidance or interpretations under Section 409A, including amendments necessary to ensure that compensation will not be subject to Section 409A, the Executive agrees that the Company shall be permitted to make such amendments, on a prospective and/or retroactive basis, in its sole discretion, provided that the parties have made a good faith effort to discuss the solutions and alternatives. This Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner that is consistent with compliance with the requirements of Section 409A, or where applicable, an exemption from Section 409A. With respect to any amount or benefit that is a "deferral of compensation" that is subject to Section 409A, any reference in this Agreement to "termination of employment," "employment termination" or a similar term of phrase shall be deemed to be a reference to Separation from Service. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Company makes no representation that this Agreement or any amounts payable or benefits provided under this Agreement will be exempt from or comply with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to this Agreement and in no event will the Company, any of its affiliates, any of its agents, or any member of the Board have any liability for any taxes imposed in connection with a failure of this Agreement to comply with or be exempt from Section 409A.
Section 409A
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
The Company shall continue to provide benefits to the Executive under the following plans, programs or arrangements, or any comparable benefits under any successor plans, programs or arrangements, as provided in Section 6(a)(ii) of this Agreement:
Rockwell Automation Employee Health Plan Rockwell Automation Disability Plan Group Insurance Plan Excess Liability Insurance Executive Physical

Exhibit 99.2
AGREEMENT by and between Rockwell Automation, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and (the "Executive"), dated as of the 27 day of September, 2010.
                    
th
The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareowners to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of the Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company. The Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of the Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change of Control and to encourage the Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change of Control, and to provide the Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change of Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of the Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations. Therefore, in order to accomplish these objectives, the Board has caused the Company to enter into this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1. . (a) The "Effective Date" shall mean the first date during the Change of Control Period (as defined in Section 1(b)) on which a Change of Control (as defined in Section 2) occurs. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if a "Change of Control Event" (as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(i) and as set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)-(vii), applying the default rules and percentages set forth in such regulation under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended) ("409A Change of Control") occurs and if the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated prior to the date on which the 409A Change of Control occurs, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a 409A Change of Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a 409A Change of Control, then for all purposes of this Agreement the "Effective Date" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment and such termination of employment shall be hereinafter referred to as "Pre-Change of Control Termination".
Certain Definitions
(b) The "Change of Control Period" shall mean the period commencing on October 1, 2010 and ending on September 30, 2013.
 
2. . For the purpose of this Agreement, a "Change of Control" shall mean:
Change of Control
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (c) of this Section 2; or
provided
however
(b) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareowners, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
provided
however
(c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another corporation (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
(d) Approval by the shareowners of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if the Executive incurs a Pre-Change of Control Termination then, for purposes of determining whether a Change of Control has occurred for purposes of the Executive's entitlement to payments and benefits provided pursuant to Section 6 of this Agreement, the definition of 409A Change of Control shall be substituted for the definition of Change of Control set forth in this Section 2.
3. . The Company hereby agrees to continue the Executive in its employ, and the Executive hereby agrees to remain in the employ of the Company subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the second anniversary of such date (the "Protected Period").
Protected Period
4. . (a) . (i) During the Protected Period, (A) the Executive's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties and responsibilities shall be at least commensurate in all material respects with the most significant of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date and (B) the Executive's services shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately preceding the Effective Date or any office or location less than 35 miles from such location.
Terms of Employment
Position and
Duties
(ii) During the Protected Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote reasonable attention and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Protected Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any such activities have been conducted by the Executive prior to the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or the conduct of activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to the Effective Date shall not thereafter be deemed to interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities to the Company.
(b) . (i) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall receive an annual base salary ("Annual Base Salary"), which shall be paid at a monthly rate payable in accordance with normal payroll practices no less frequently than monthly, at least equal to twelve times the highest monthly base salary paid or payable, including any base salary which has been earned but deferred, to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies in respect of the twelve-month period immediately preceding the month in which the Effective Date occurs. During the Protected Period, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed no more than 12 months after the last salary increase awarded to the Executive prior to the Effective Date and thereafter at least annually. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or reduce any other obligation to the Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase and the term Annual Base Salary as utilized in this Agreement shall refer to Annual Base Salary as so increased. As used in this Agreement, the term "affiliated companies" shall include any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company.
Compensation
Base Salary
 
(ii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary, the Executive shall be awarded, for each fiscal year ending during the Protected Period, an annual bonus (the "Annual Bonus") in cash at least equal to the Executive's highest bonus under the Company's annual incentive plans, or any comparable bonus under any predecessor or successor plan, for the last three full fiscal years prior to the Effective Date (annualized in the event that the Executive was not employed by the Company for the whole of such fiscal year) (the "Recent Annual Bonus"). Each such Annual Bonus shall be paid no later than the end of the third month of the fiscal year next following the fiscal year for which the Annual Bonus is awarded, unless the Executive shall elect to defer the receipt of such Annual Bonus pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan.
Annual Bonus
(iii) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all incentive, savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs applicable generally to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide the Executive with incentive opportunities (measured with respect to both regular and special incentive opportunities, to the extent, if any, that such distinction is applicable), savings opportunities and retirement benefit opportunities, in each case, less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies for the Executive under such plans, practices, policies and programs as in effect at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or if more favorable to the Executive, those provided generally at any time after the Effective Date to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans
(iv) . During the Protected Period, the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as the case may be, shall be entitled to participate in and shall receive all benefits under welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company and its affiliated companies (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent applicable generally to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide the Executive with benefits which are less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of such plans, practices, policies and programs in effect for the Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, those provided generally at any time after the Effective Date to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Welfare Benefit Plans
(v) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the most favorable policies, practices and procedures of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Expenses
(vi) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to fringe benefits, including, without limitation, tax and financial planning services, payment of club dues, and, if applicable, use of an automobile and payment of related expenses, in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Fringe Benefits
 
(vii) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to exclusive personal secretarial and other assistance, at least equal to the most favorable of the foregoing provided to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as provided generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Office and Support Staff
(viii) . During the Protected Period, the Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company and its affiliated companies as in effect for the Executive at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Vacation
5. . (a) . The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Protected Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability of the Executive has occurred during the Protected Period (pursuant to the definition of Disability set forth below), it may give to the Executive written notice in accordance with Section 12(b) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" shall mean the absence of the Executive from the Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Executive or the Executive's legal representative.
Termination of Employment
Death or Disability
(b) . The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Protected Period for Cause. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean:
Cause
(i) the willful and continued failure of the Executive to perform substantially the Executive's duties with the Company or one of its affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which the Board or Chief Executive Officer believes that the Executive has not substantially performed the Executive's duties, or
(ii) the willful engaging by the Executive in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company.
 
For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act, on the part of the Executive, shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. The cessation of employment of the Executive shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Executive and the Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, the Executive is guilty of the conduct described in subparagraph (i) or (ii) above, and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
(c) . The Executive's employment may be terminated by the Executive for Good Reason. For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean:
Good Reason
(i) the assignment to the Executive of any duties inconsistent in any respect with the Executive's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 4(a) of this Agreement, or any other action by the Company which results in a diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities, including for this purpose a diminution of duties resulting from the Company no longer being required to file reports under the Exchange Act without any further specific action by the Company, and excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;
(ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4(b) of this Agreement, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;
(iii) the Company's requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location other than as provided in Section 4(a)(i)(B) hereof or the Company's requiring the Executive to travel on Company business to a substantially greater extent than required immediately prior to the Effective Date;
(iv) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; or
(v) any failure by the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 11(c) of this Agreement.
 
For purposes of this Section 5(c), any good faith determination of "Good Reason" made by the Executive shall be conclusive. The Executive's rights to terminate employment for "Good Reason" under this Agreement upon any event giving rise to such right shall not be affected by any incapacity of the Executive due to physical or mental illness following such event.
(d) . Any termination of employment by the Company for Cause, or by the Executive for Good Reason, shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 12(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than thirty days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company, respectively, hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company, respectively, from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
Notice of Termination
(e) . "Date of Termination" means (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, or by the Executive for Good Reason, the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein, as the case may be, (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Company notifies the Executive of such termination and (iii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
Date of Termination
6. . (a) . If, during the Protected Period, the Company shall terminate the Executive's employment other than for Cause, Death or Disability or the Executive shall terminate employment for Good Reason:
Obligations of the Company upon Termination
Good Reason; Other Than for Cause, Death or Disability
(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the Executive's "separation from service" ("Separation from Service") within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder ("Section 409A") the aggregate of the following amounts:
A. the sum of (1) the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, and (2) any compensation previously deferred by the Executive (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon) but only to the extent that such deferred compensation is "grandfathered" under and not subject to the rules of Section 409A, and any accrued vacation pay, in each case to the extent not theretofore paid (the sum of the amounts described in clauses (1) and (2) shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Accrued Obligations");
 
B. subject to Section 6(e) of this Agreement, the product of (x) the average of the Executive's annual bonuses paid or payable under the Company's annual incentive plan, or any comparable bonus under any predecessor or successor plan, for the last three full fiscal years prior to the Date of Termination (annualized in the event that the Executive was not employed by the Company for the whole of any such fiscal year), and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed months in the current fiscal year prior to the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 12; and
C. subject to Section 6(e) of this Agreement, the amount equal to the product of (1) two and (2) the sum of (x) the Executive's Annual Base Salary and (y) the Executive's target Annual Bonus payable under the Company's annual incentive plan in effect with respect to the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs.
(ii) subject to Section 6(e) of this Agreement, for two years after the Executive's Date of Termination, or such longer period as may be provided by the terms of the appropriate plan, program, practice or policy (the "Benefits Continuation Period"), the Company shall continue benefits specified on Exhibit 1 to this Agreement to the Executive and/or the Executive's family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section 4(b)(iv) of this Agreement if the Executive's employment had not been terminated or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families, , , that if the Executive becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive medical or other welfare benefits under another employer provided plan, the medical and other welfare benefits described herein shall be secondary to those provided under such other plan during such applicable period of eligibility. For purposes of determining eligibility (but not the time of commencement of benefits) of the Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans, practices, programs and policies, the Executive shall be considered to have remained employed until two years after the Date of Termination and to have retired on the last day of such period; and further provided that the existence of the Benefits Continuation Period shall not in any way offset or otherwise limit the Executive's entitlement to coverage under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended, which will commence at the end of the Benefits Continuation Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any benefit is a "deferral of compensation" that is subject to Section 409A, except as otherwise permitted by Section 409A, (A) to the extent that any such benefit is provided via reimbursement to the Executive or is an in-kind benefit, such reimbursement or benefit will be made or provided promptly by the Company and in no event later than the end of the year following the year in which the underlying expense is incurred, (B) any such benefit provided by the Company in any year will not be affected by the amount of any such benefit provided in any other year, provided that this subclause (B) shall not be violated with regard to expenses reimbursed under any arrangement covered by Section 105(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") solely because such expenses are subject to a limit related to amounts that may be reimbursed during the period the arrangement is in effect, and (C) under no circumstances will the Executive be permitted to liquidate or exchange any such benefit for cash or any other benefits;
provided
however
 
(iii) the Company shall, at its sole expense as incurred, provide the Executive with reasonable outplacement services the scope and provider of which shall be selected by the Executive in his sole discretion; and
(iv) subject to Section 6(e) of this Agreement, to the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the Company shall timely pay or provide to the Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which the Executive is eligible to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliated companies (such other amounts and benefits shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Other Benefits"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, any compensation previously deferred by the Executive that is subject to Section 409A will be payable in accordance with the terms of the plan or arrangement under which the compensation was deferred.
(b) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death during the Protected Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. With respect to the provision of Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as utilized in this Section 6(b) shall include, without limitation, and the Executive's estate and/or beneficiaries shall be entitled to receive, benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits provided by the Company and affiliated companies to the estates and beneficiaries of peer executives of the Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to death benefits, if any, as in effect with respect to other peer executives and their beneficiaries at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive's estate and/or the Executive's beneficiaries, as in effect on the date of the Executive's death with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their beneficiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any compensation previously deferred by the Executive that is subject to Section 409A will be payable in accordance with the terms of the plan or arrangement under which the compensation was deferred.
Death
(c) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Protected Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Executive's Separation from Service. With respect to the provision of Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as utilized in this Section 6(c) shall include, and the Executive shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive, disability and other benefits at least equal to the most favorable of those generally provided by the Company and its affiliated companies to disabled executives and/or their families in accordance with such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to disability, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any compensation previously deferred by the Executive that is subject to Section 409A will be payable in accordance with the terms of the plan or arrangement under which the compensation was deferred.
Disability
 
(d) . If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause during the Protected Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay to the Executive (x) his Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination, (y) the amount of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive, and (z) Other Benefits, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid. If the Executive voluntarily terminates employment during the Protected Period, excluding a termination for Good Reason, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. In such case, all Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Executive's Separation from Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any compensation previously deferred by the Executive that is subject to the rules of Section 409A will be payable in accordance with the terms of the plan or arrangement under which the compensation was deferred.
Cause; Other than for Good Reason
(e) . To the extent that any amount payable or benefit to be provided under this Agreement constitutes an amount payable or benefit to be provided under a "nonqualified deferred compensation plan" (as defined in Section 409A) following a Separation from Service, including any amount payable or benefit to be provided under this Section 6, and to the extent that the Executive is deemed to be a "specified employee" (as that term is defined in Section 409A and pursuant to procedures established by the Company) on the Separation from Service date, then, notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, such payment or benefit provision will not be made to the Executive during the six-month period immediately following his Separation from Service date. Instead, on the first day of the seventh month following such Separation from Service date, all amounts that otherwise would have been paid or provided to the Executive during that six-month period, but were not due to this Section 6(e), will be paid or provided to the Executive at such time, with any cash payment to be made in a single lump sum (without any interest with respect to that six-month period). This six-month delay will cease to be applicable if the Executive incurs a Separation from Service due to death or if he dies before the six-month period has elapsed.
Six-Month Wait for Specified Employees
7. . Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and for which the Executive may qualify, nor, subject to Section 12(f), shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its affiliated companies. If the Executive voluntarily terminates employment or terminates employment for Good Reason during the Protected Period, nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit any rights the Executive may have to any retirement benefits under any plans, programs or policies of the Company. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any contract or agreement with the Company or any of its affiliated companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
Non-exclusivity of Rights
 
8. . The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Executive obtains other employment. The Company agrees to pay as incurred, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the Executive or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code. Any amount payable by the Company in any year pursuant to the prior sentence will not be affected by the amount of any payment made by the Company pursuant to the prior sentence in any other year, and under no circumstances will the Executive by permitted to liquidate or exchange the benefit afforded him in the prior sentence for cash or any other benefit. To the extent any such payment is made via reimbursement to the Executive, no such reimbursement will be made promptly by the Company and in no event later than the end of the year following the year in which the underlying expense is incurred. This Section 8 shall apply only to expenses incurred during the lifetime of the Executive.
Full Settlement
9. . In the event that the benefits provided for in the Agreement, when aggregated with any other payments or benefits received by Executive (the "Aggregate Benefits"), would (i) constitute "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, and (ii) would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (the "Excise Tax"), then Executive's Aggregate Benefits will be either: (a) delivered in full, or (b) delivered as to such lesser extent as would result in no portion of such Aggregate Benefits being subject to the Excise Tax, whichever of the foregoing amounts, taking into account the applicable federal, state and local income taxes and the Excise Tax, results in the receipt by Executive on an after-tax basis of the greatest amount of Aggregate Benefits, notwithstanding that all or some portion of such Aggregate Benefits may be taxable under Section 4999 of the Code. Unless the Company and Executive otherwise agree in writing, any determination required under this paragraph will be made in writing by an independent certified public accounting firm mutually agreeable to the Company and Executive (the "Accounting Firm") whose determination will be conclusive and binding upon Executive and the Company for all purposes. For purposes of making the calculations required by this paragraph, the Accounting Firm may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code. The Company and Executive will furnish to the Accounting Firm such information and documents as the Accounting Firm may reasonably request in order to make a determination under this paragraph. To the extent any reduction in Aggregate Benefits is required by this paragraph, Aggregate Benefits shall be reduced or eliminated in reverse order of time of payment (that is, Aggregate Benefits payable later shall be reduced or eliminated before any reduction or elimination of Aggregate Benefits payable sooner), Aggregate Benefits payable at the same time shall be reduced or eliminated in accordance with the Executive's instructions provided the Company has no reasonable objection thereto, and all reductions or eliminations shall be based on the value of the Aggregate Benefits established for purposes of the determination required under this paragraph. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company.
"Best Net" Provision
 
10. . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its affiliated companies, and their respective businesses, which shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive's employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and which shall not be or become public knowledge (other than by acts by the Executive or representatives of the Executive in violation of this Agreement). After termination of the Executive's employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company or as may otherwise be required by law or legal process, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it. In no event shall an asserted violation of the provisions of this Section 10 constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amounts otherwise payable to the Executive under this Agreement.
Confidential Information
11. . (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives.
Successors
(b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
(c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
12. . (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
Miscellaneous
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
If to the Executive:
Rockwell Automation, Inc. 1201 S. Second Street Milwaukee, WI 53204
                    
                        
:
If to the Company
Rockwell Automation, Inc. 1201 S. Second Street Milwaukee, WI 53204
Attention: General Counsel
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
(d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
(e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right the Executive or the Company may have hereunder, including, without limitation, the right of the Executive to terminate employment for Good Reason pursuant to Section 5(c)(i)-(v) of this Agreement, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement.
(f) The Executive and the Company acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between the Executive and the Company, the employment of the Executive by the Company is "at will" and, subject to Section 1(a) hereof, prior to the Effective Date, the Executive's employment may be terminated by either the Executive or the Company at any time prior to the Effective Date, in which case the Executive shall have no further rights under this Agreement. From and after the Effective Date this Agreement shall supersede any other agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
13. . The parties hereto acknowledge that the requirements of the Section 409A are still being interpreted by government agencies, that certain issues under Section 409A remain unclear at this time, and that the parties hereto have made a good faith effort to comply with current guidance under Section 409A. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that amendments to this Agreement are necessary in order to comply with future guidance or interpretations under Section 409A, including amendments necessary to ensure that compensation will not be subject to Section 409A, the Executive agrees that the Company shall be permitted to make such amendments, on a prospective and/or retroactive basis, in its sole discretion, provided that the parties have made a good faith effort to discuss the solutions and alternatives. This Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner that is consistent with compliance with the requirements of Section 409A, or where applicable, an exemption from Section 409A. With respect to any amount or benefit that is a "deferral of compensation" that is subject to Section 409A, any reference in this Agreement to "termination of employment," "employment termination" or a similar term of phrase shall be deemed to be a reference to Separation from Service. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Company makes no representation that this Agreement or any amounts payable or benefits provided under this Agreement will be exempt from or comply with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to this Agreement and in no event will the Company, any of its affiliates, any of its agents, or any member of the Board have any liability for any taxes imposed in connection with a failure of this Agreement to comply with or be exempt from Section 409A.
Section 409A
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
The Company shall continue to provide benefits to the Executive under the following plans, programs or arrangements, or any comparable benefits under any successor plans, programs or arrangements, as provided in Section 6(a)(ii) of this Agreement:
Rockwell Automation Employee Health Plan Rockwell Automation Disability Plan Group Insurance Plan Excess Liability Insurance Executive Physical


