Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and elsewhere in this report. All subsequent written and oral forward looking statements attributable to Devon, or persons acting on its behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements. We assume no duty to update or revise our forward looking statements based on changes in internal estimates or expectations or otherwise. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Devon Energy Corporation, including its subsidiaries (Devon), is an independent energy company engaged primarily in exploration, development and production of natural gas and oil. Our oil and gas operations are concentrated in various North American onshore areas in the United States and Canada. We also have offshore operations that are situated principally in the Gulf of Mexico and regions located offshore Azerbaijan, Brazil and China. To complement our upstream oil and gas operations, we have marketing and midstream operations primarily in North America. With these operations, we market gas, crude oil and NGLs. We also construct and operate pipelines, storage and treating facilities and natural gas processing plants. These midstream facilities are used to transport oil, gas, and NGLs and process natural gas. We began operations in 1971 as a privately held company. We have been publicly held since 1988, and our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Our principal and administrative offices are located at 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102 8260 (telephone 405/235 3611). Strategy As an enterprise, we aspire to be the premier independent natural gas and oil company in North America. To achieve this, we continuously strive to optimize value for our shareholders by growing reserves, production, earnings and cash flows, all on a per share basis. We do this by: exercising capital discipline; investing in oil and gas properties with high operating margins; balancing our reserves and production mix between natural gas and liquids; maintaining a low overall cost structure; improving performance through our marketing and midstream operations; and preserving financial flexibility. Over the past decade, we captured an abundance of resources by carrying out this strategy. We pioneered horizontal drilling in the Barnett Shale and extended this technique to other natural gas shale plays in the United States and Canada. We became proficient with steam assisted gravity drainage with our Jackfish oil sands development in Alberta, Canada. We achieved key oil discoveries with our drilling in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and offshore Brazil. We have more than tripled our proved oil and gas reserves since 2000, and have also assembled an extensive inventory of exploration assets representing additional unproved resources. Building off our past successes, in November 2009, we announced plans to strategically reposition Devon as a high growth, North American onshore exploration and production company. As part of this strategic repositioning, we plan to bring forward the value of our offshore assets located in the Gulf of Mexico and countries outside North America by divesting them. This repositioning is driven by our desire to unlock and accelerate the realization of the value underlying the deep inventory of opportunities we have. We have assembled a valuable portfolio of offshore assets, and we have a considerable inventory of premier North American onshore assets. However, our North American onshore assets have consistently provided us our highest risk adjusted investment returns. By selling our offshore assets, we can more aggressively pursue the untapped value of these North American onshore opportunities. Besides reducing debt, the offshore divestiture proceeds are expected to provide significant funds to redeploy into our prolific North American onshore opportunities. With these added funds, we plan to accelerate the growth and realization of the value of our North American onshore assets. 5 Table of Contents Presentation of Discontinued Operations As a result of the planned divestitures of our offshore assets, all amounts in this document related to our International operations are presented as discontinued. Therefore, financial data and operational data, such as reserves, production, wells and acreage, provided in this document exclude amounts related to our International operations unless otherwise provided. Even though we are also divesting our U.S. Offshore operations, these properties do not qualify as discontinued operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and operational data provided in this document that pertain to our continuing operations include amounts related to our U.S. Offshore operations. Where appropriate, we have presented amounts related to our U.S. Offshore assets separate from those of our North American Onshore assets. Development of Business Since our first issuance of common stock to the public in 1988, we have executed strategies that have always been focused on growth and value creation for our shareholders. We increased our total proved reserves from 8 MMBoe at year end 1987 to 2,733 MMBoe at year end 2009. During this same time period, we increased annual production from 1 MMBoe in 1987 to 233 MMBoe in 2009. Our expansion over this time period is attributable to a focused mergers and acquisitions program spanning a number of years, as well as active and successful exploration and development programs in more recent years. Additionally, our growth has provided meaningful value creation for our shareholders. The growth statistics from 1987 to 2009 translate into annual per share growth rates of 11% for production and 8% for reserves. As a result of this growth, we have become one of the largest independent oil and gas companies in North America. During 2009, we continued to build off our past successes with a number of key accomplishments, including those discussed below. Drilling Success We drilled 1,135 gross wells with a 99% success rate. As a result of our success with the drill bit, we replaced approximately 213% of our 2009 production. We added 496 MMBoe of proved reserves during the year with extensions, discoveries and performance revisions. These reserve additions were more than double the 233 MMBoe we produced during 2009. Besides increasing our proved reserves, our drilling success was also the main driver of our 5% production growth in 2009. Barnett Shale We drilled 336 wells in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas in 2009, bringing our total producing wells in the field to almost 4,200 at year end. We exited 2009 with net Barnett Shale production at just over one Bcf of natural gas equivalent per day. We are currently running 16 operated drilling rigs in the Barnett and expect to drill 370 wells in the field in 2010. Cana Woodford Shale We drilled 47 successful wells in the Cana Woodford Shale in western Oklahoma in 2009. We also increased our net production from this important new shale gas resource by nearly 500% to an average of 39 MMcf of natural gas equivalent per day. We have increased our lease position in the Cana Woodford Shale to 118,000 net acres and expect to drill approximately 85 wells in the field in 2010. Haynesville Shale We drilled eight Haynesville Shale wells in the greater Carthage area of east Texas in 2009. These wells have significantly de risked our 110,000 net Haynesville Shale acres in the Carthage area. Jackfish In Canada, our 100 percent owned Jackfish oil sands project in Alberta was operational throughout 2009. As measured by production per well and steam to oil ratio, Jackfish is one of Canadas most commercially successful steam assisted gravity drainage projects. In late 2009, Jackfishs gross production reached 33.7 MBbls of oil per day. The addition of four more producing wells is expected to push production to the facilitys capacity of 35 MBbls per day in early 2010. Construction continued throughout 2009 on a second phase of the Jackfish project. Jackfish 2 is also sized to produce 35 MBbls of oil per day and will commence operations in 2011. We expect to file a regulatory application for a third phase of the project in the third quarter of 2010. 6 Table of Contents Brazil Offshore Brazil, we participated in two significant deepwater discoveries in 2009. The Devon operated Itaipu exploratory discovery followed a successful appraisal of the 2008 Wahoo discovery. Both Itaipu and Wahoo are pre salt prospects located in the Campos Basin. Financial Information about Segments and Geographical Areas Notes 20 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report contain information on our segments and geographical areas. Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Marketing The spot markets for oil, gas and NGLs are subject to volatility as supply and demand factors fluctuate. As detailed below, we sell our production under both long term (one year or more) or short term (less than one year) agreements. Regardless of the term of the contract, the vast majority of our production is sold at variable or market sensitive prices. Additionally, we may periodically enter into financial hedging arrangements or fixed price contracts associated with a portion of our oil and gas production. These activities are intended to support targeted price levels and to manage our exposure to price fluctuations. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Oil Marketing Our oil production is sold under both long term and short term agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although exact percentages vary daily, as of January 2010, approximately 81% of our oil production was sold under short term contracts at variable or market sensitive prices. The remaining 19% of oil production was sold under long term, market indexed contracts that are subject to market pricing variations. Natural Gas Marketing Our gas production is also sold under both long term and short term agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although exact percentages vary daily, as of January 2010, approximately 86% of our gas production was sold under short term contracts at variable or market sensitive prices. These market sensitive sales are referred to as spot market sales. Another 13% of our production was committed under various long term contracts, which dedicate the gas to a purchaser for an extended period of time, but still at market sensitive prices. The remaining 1% of our gas production was sold under long term, fixed price contracts. NGL Marketing Our NGL production is sold under both long term and short term agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although exact percentages vary, as of January 2010, approximately 90% of our NGL production was sold under short term contracts at variable or market sensitive prices. The remaining 10% of NGL production was sold under short term, fixed price contracts. Marketing and Midstream Activities The primary objective of our marketing and midstream operations is to add value to us and other producers to whom we provide such services by gathering, processing and marketing oil, gas and NGL production in a timely and efficient manner. Our most significant midstream asset is the Bridgeport processing plant and gathering system located in north Texas. These facilities serve not only our gas production from the Barnett Shale but also gas production of other producers in the area. Our midstream assets also include our 50% interest in the Access Pipeline transportation system in Canada. This pipeline system allows us to blend our Jackfish heavy oil production with condensate and transport the combined product to the Edmonton area for sale. 7 Table of Contents Our marketing and midstream revenues are primarily generated by: selling NGLs that are either extracted from the gas streams processed by our plants or purchased from third parties for marketing, and selling or gathering gas that moves through our transport pipelines and unrelated third party pipelines. Our marketing and midstream costs and expenses are primarily incurred from: purchasing the gas streams entering our transport pipelines and plants; purchasing fuel needed to operate our plants, compressors and related pipeline facilities; purchasing third party NGLs; operating our plants, gathering systems and related facilities; and transporting products on unrelated third party pipelines. Customers We sell our gas production to a variety of customers including pipelines, utilities, gas marketing firms, industrial users and local distribution companies. Gathering systems and interstate and intrastate pipelines are used to consummate gas sales and deliveries. The principal customers for our crude oil production are refiners, remarketers and other companies, some of which have pipeline facilities near the producing properties. In the event pipeline facilities are not conveniently available, crude oil is trucked or shipped to storage, refining or pipeline facilities. Our NGL production is primarily sold to customers engaged in petrochemical, refining and heavy oil blending activities. Pipelines, railcars and trucks are utilized to move our products to market. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, no purchaser accounted for over 10% of our revenues. Seasonal Nature of Business Generally, but not always, the demand for natural gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers sometimes lessen this fluctuation. In addition, pipelines, utilities, local distribution companies and industrial users utilize natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer. This can also lessen seasonal demand fluctuations. Public Policy and Government Regulation The oil and gas industry is subject to various types of regulation throughout the world. Laws, rules, regulations and other policy implementations affecting the oil and gas industry have been pervasive and are under constant review for amendment or expansion. Pursuant to public policy changes, numerous government agencies have issued extensive laws and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Such laws and regulations have a significant impact on oil and gas exploration, production and marketing and midstream activities. These laws and regulations increase the cost of doing business and, consequently, affect profitability. Because public policy changes affecting the oil and gas industry are commonplace and because existing laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws and regulations. However, we do not expect that any of these laws and regulations will affect our operations in a manner materially different than they would affect other oil and gas companies of similar size and financial strength. The following are significant areas of government control and regulation in the United States, Canada and other international locations in which we operate. 8 Table of Contents Exploration and Production Regulation Our oil and gas operations are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal, local and international laws and regulations. These regulations relate to matters that include, but are not limited to: acquisition of seismic data; location of wells; drilling and casing of wells; well production; spill prevention plans; emissions permitting; use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and materials incidental to oil and gas operations; surface usage and the restoration of properties upon which wells have been drilled; calculation and disbursement of royalty payments and production taxes; plugging and abandoning of wells; transportation of production; and in international operations, minimum investments in the country of operations. Our operations also are subject to conservation regulations, including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units; the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit; the rate of production allowable from oil and gas wells; and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In the United States, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration, while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases, which may make it more difficult to develop oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws generally limit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratable purchase of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of oil and gas we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill. Certain of our U.S. natural gas and oil leases are granted by the federal government and administered by various federal agencies, including the Bureau of Land Management and the Minerals Management Service (MMS) of the Department of the Interior. Such leases require compliance with detailed federal regulations and orders that regulate, among other matters, drilling and operations on lands covered by these leases, and calculation and disbursement of royalty payments to the federal government. The MMS has been particularly active in recent years in evaluating and, in some cases, promulgating new rules and regulations regarding competitive lease bidding and royalty payment obligations for production from federal lands. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission also has jurisdiction over certain U.S. offshore activities pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Royalties and Incentives in Canada The royalty system in Canada is a significant factor in the profitability of oil and gas production. Royalties payable on production from lands other than Crown lands are determined by negotiations between the parties. Crown royalties are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, with the royalty rate dependent in part upon prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date and the type and quality of the petroleum product produced. From time to time, the federal and provincial governments of Canada also have established incentive programs such as royalty rate reductions, royalty holidays, tax credits and fixed rate and profit sharing royalties for the purpose of encouraging oil and gas exploration or enhanced recovery projects. These incentives generally have the effect of increasing our revenues, earnings and cash flow. 9 Table of Contents The provincial government of Alberta enacted a new royalty regime effective January 1, 2009. The new regime links royalties to price and production levels and applies to both new and existing conventional oil and gas activities and oil sands projects. This regime has generally reduced our proved reserves and production in Alberta, as well as the related earnings and cash flows. Similar effects have been experienced throughout the oil and gas industry in Alberta. Acknowledging this impact on the industry, the government of Alberta has announced a competitiveness review to assess the impact to the industry as a result of the royalty changes. However, we are uncertain whether the current regime will be modified. Pricing and Marketing in Canada Any oil or gas export to be made pursuant to an export contract that exceeds a certain duration or a certain quantity requires an exporter to obtain export authorizations from Canadas National Energy Board (NEB). The governments of Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan also regulate the volume of natural gas that may be removed from those provinces for consumption elsewhere. Production Sharing Contracts Some of our international licenses are governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) between the concessionaires and the granting government agency. PSCs are contracts that define and regulate the framework for investments, revenue sharing, and taxation of mineral interests in foreign countries. Unlike most domestic leases, PSCs have defined production terms and time limits of generally 30 years. PSCs also generally contain sliding scale revenue sharing provisions. As a result, at either higher production rates or higher cumulative rates of return, PSCs generally allow the government agency to retain higher fractions of revenue. Environmental and Occupational Regulations We are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal, local and international laws and regulations concerning occupational safety and health as well as the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. Environmental laws and regulations relate to, among other things: assessing the environmental impact of seismic acquisition, drilling or construction activities; the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of waste materials; the emission of certain gases into the atmosphere; the monitoring, abandonment, reclamation and remediation of well and other sites, including sites of former operations; and the development of emergency response and spill contingency plans. The application of worldwide standards, such as ISO 14000 governing environmental management systems, is required to be implemented for some international oil and gas operations. We consider the costs of environmental protection and safety and health compliance necessary and manageable parts of our business. We have been able to plan for and comply with environmental, safety and health initiatives without materially altering our operating strategy or incurring significant unreimbursed expenditures. However, based on regulatory trends and increasingly stringent laws, our capital expenditures and operating expenses related to the protection of the environment and safety and health compliance have increased over the years and will likely continue to increase. We cannot predict with any reasonable degree of certainty our future exposure concerning such matters. We maintain levels of insurance customary in the industry to limit our financial exposure in the event of a substantial environmental claim resulting from sudden, unanticipated and accidental discharges of oil, salt water or other substances. However, we do not maintain 100% coverage concerning any environmental claim, and no coverage is maintained with respect to any penalty or fine required to be paid because of a violation of law. 10 Table of Contents Climate Change Policy makers in the United States are increasingly focusing on whether the emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane, are contributing to the warming of the Earths atmosphere and other climatic changes. However, there is currently no settled scientific consensus on whether, or the extent to which, human derived greenhouse gas emissions contribute to climatic change. As an oil and gas company, the debate on climate change is relevant to our operations because the equipment we use to explore for, develop, produce and process oil and natural gas emits greenhouse gases. Additionally, the combustion of carbon based fuels, such as the oil, gas and NGLs we sell, emits carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. As a result, some believe that combustion of carbon based fuels contributes to climate change. Despite the lack of a settled scientific consensus on human derived impacts on climate change, policy makers at both the United States federal and state level have introduced legislation and proposed new regulations that are designed to quantify and limit the emission of greenhouse gases through inventories and limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. Legislative initiatives to date have focused on the development of cap and trade programs. These programs generally would cap overall greenhouse gas emissions on an economy wide basis and require major sources of greenhouse gas emissions or major fuel producers to acquire and surrender emission allowances. As a result of a gradually declining cap, the number of government issued allowances and allowances available for trade would be reduced each year until the overall goal of greenhouse gas emission reductions is achieved. Because no final legislation or regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions have been enacted at this time, it is not possible to estimate the costs or operational impacts we could experience to comply with new legislative or regulatory developments. Although we do not anticipate that we would be impacted to any greater degree than other similar oil and gas companies, a stringent greenhouse gas control program could increase our cost of doing business and reduce demand for the oil and natural gas that we sell. However, to the extent that any particular greenhouse gas program directly or indirectly encourages the use of natural gas, demand for the natural gas we sell could increase. The Kyoto Protocol was adopted by numerous countries in 1997 and implemented in 2005. The Protocol requires reductions of certain emissions of greenhouse gases. Although the United States has not ratified the Protocol, certain countries in which we operate have. Canada ratified the Protocol in April 2007 and released its Regulatory Framework for Air Emissions. The Canadian framework is a plan to implement mandatory reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. The mandatory reductions on greenhouse gas emissions will create additional costs for the Canadian oil and gas industry, including us. Certain provinces in Canada also have implemented or are currently implementing legislation and regulations to report and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which also will carry a cost associated with compliance. Presently, it is not possible to accurately estimate the costs we could incur to comply with any laws or regulations developed to achieve emissions reductions in Canada or elsewhere, but such expenditures could be substantial. In 2006, we established our Corporate Climate Change Position and Strategy. Key components of the strategy include initiation of energy efficiency measures, tracking emerging climate change legislation and publication of a corporate greenhouse gas emission inventory. We last published our emission inventory on January 2008. We will publish another emission inventory on or before March 31, 2011 to comply with a reporting mandate issued by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Additionally, we continue to explore energy efficiency measures and greenhouse emission reduction opportunities. We also continue to monitor legislative and regulatory climate change developments, such as the proposals described above. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 5,400 employees. We consider labor relations with our employees to be satisfactory. We have not had any work stoppages or strikes pertaining to our employees. Competition See Item 1A. Risk Factors. 11 Table of Contents Availability of Reports Through our website, http://www.devonenergy.com, we make available electronic copies of the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors, other documents related to our corporate governance (including our Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer), and documents we file or furnish to the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, and current reports on Form 8 K, as well as any amendments to these reports. Access to these electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing them to the SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other governance documents and filings can be requested by writing to our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this report. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities, and the oil and gas industry in general, are subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risk factors should occur, our profitability, financial condition or liquidity could be materially impacted. As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of their investment in Devon. Oil, Gas and NGL Prices are Volatile Our financial results are highly dependent on the prices of and demand for oil, gas and NGLs. A significant downward movement of the prices for these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating cash flows and profitability. Such a downward price movement could also have a material adverse effect on our estimated proved reserves, the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, the level of planned drilling activities and future growth. Historically, prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future due to numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: consumer demand for oil, gas and NGLs; conservation efforts; OPEC production levels; weather; regional pricing differentials; differing quality of oil produced (i.e., sweet crude versus heavy or sour crude) and Btu content of gas produced; the level of imports and exports of oil, gas and NGLs; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the overall economic environment; and governmental regulations and taxes. Estimates of Oil, Gas and NGL Reserves are Uncertain The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir, particularly for new discoveries. Because of the high degree of judgment involved, different reserve engineers may develop different estimates of reserve quantities and related revenue based on the same data. In addition, the reserve estimates for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of several factors including additional development activity, the viability of production under varying economic conditions and variations in production levels and associated costs. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur as a result of changes in any of these factors. Such revisions to proved reserves could have a material adverse effect on our estimates of future net revenue, as well as our financial condition and profitability. 12 Table of Contents Additional discussion of our policies and internal controls related to estimating and recording reserves is described in Item 2. Properties Preparation of Reserves Estimates and Reserves Audits. Discoveries or Acquisitions of Additional Reserves are Needed to Avoid a Material Decline in Reserves and Production The production rates from oil and gas properties generally decline as reserves are depleted, while related per unit production costs generally increase, due to decreasing reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, our estimated proved reserves and future oil, gas and NGL production will decline materially as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional producing zones in existing wells, secondary recovery reserves or tertiary recovery reserves, or acquire additional properties containing proved reserves. Consequently, our future oil, gas and NGL production and related per unit production costs are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. Future Exploration and Drilling Results are Uncertain and Involve Substantial Costs Substantial costs are often required to locate and acquire properties and drill exploratory wells. Such activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. The costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain. In addition, oil and gas properties can become damaged or drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors including, but not limited to: unexpected drilling conditions; pressure or irregularities in reservoir formations; equipment failures or accidents; fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering; marine risks such as capsizing, collisions and hurricanes; other adverse weather conditions; lack of access to pipelines or other transportation methods; environmental hazards or liabilities; and shortages or delays in the availability of services or delivery of equipment. A significant occurrence of one of these factors could result in a partial or total loss of our investment in a particular property. In addition, drilling activities may not be successful in establishing proved reserves. Such a failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. While both exploratory and developmental drilling activities involve these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. We are currently performing exploratory drilling activities in certain international countries. We have been granted drilling concessions in these countries that require commitments on our behalf to incur capital expenditures. Even if future drilling activities are unsuccessful in establishing proved reserves, we will likely be required to fulfill our commitments to make such capital expenditures. Industry Competition For Leases, Materials, People and Capital Can Be Significant Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas industry. We compete with major integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of oil and gas leases and properties. We also compete for the equipment and personnel required to explore, develop and operate properties. Competition is also prevalent in the marketing of oil, gas and NGLs. Typically, during times of high or rising commodity prices, drilling and operating costs will also increase. Higher prices will also generally increase the costs of properties available for acquisition. Certain of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially 13 Table of Contents larger than ours. They also may have established strategic long term positions and relationships in areas in which we may seek new entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for oil and gas production, such as changing worldwide price and production levels, the cost and availability of alternative fuels, and the application of government regulations. International Operations Have Uncertain Political, Economic and Other Risks Our operations outside North America are based primarily in Azerbaijan, Brazil and China. As noted earlier in this report, we are in the process of divesting our operations outside North America. However, until we cease operating in these locations, we face political and economic risks and other uncertainties in these areas that are more prevalent than what exist for our operations in North America. Such factors include, but are not limited to: general strikes and civil unrest; the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts; import and export regulations; taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions; transportation regulations and tariffs; exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments or the movement of funds; laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, including trade sanctions; the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we currently operate; the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations. Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or be lost. Even our smaller international assets may affect our overall business and results of operations by distracting managements attention from our more significant assets. Various regions of the world have a history of political and economic instability. This instability could result in new governments or the adoption of new policies that might result in a substantially more hostile attitude toward foreign investment. In an extreme case, such a change could result in termination of contract rights and expropriation of foreign owned assets. This could adversely affect our interests and our future profitability. The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against terrorist activities. Public Policy, Which Includes Laws, Rules and Regulations, Can Change Our operations are subject to federal laws, rules and regulations in the United States, Canada and the other countries in which we operate. In addition, we are also subject to the laws and regulations of various 14 Table of Contents states, provinces, tribal and local governments. Pursuant to public policy changes, numerous government departments and agencies have issued extensive rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Changes in such public policy have affected, and at times in the future could affect, our operations. Political developments can restrict production levels, enact price controls, change environmental protection requirements, and increase taxes, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies. Although we are unable to predict changes to existing laws and regulations, such changes could significantly impact our profitability. While public policy can change at any time in the future, those laws and regulations outside North America to which we are subject generally include greater risk of unforeseen change. Environmental Matters and Costs Can Be Significant As an owner, lessee or operator of oil and gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal, local and international laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution clean up resulting from our operations in affected areas. Any future environmental costs of fulfilling our commitments to the environment are uncertain and will be governed by several factors, including future changes to regulatory requirements. There is no assurance that changes in or additions to public policy regarding the protection of the environment will not have a significant impact on our operations and profitability. Insurance Does Not Cover All Risks Exploration, development, production and processing of oil, gas and NGLs can be hazardous and involve unforeseen occurrences such as hurricanes, blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control. These occurrences can result in damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the environment. We maintain insurance against certain losses or liabilities in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be prudent. However, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Due to changes in the insurance marketplace following hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico in recent years, we currently do not have coverage for any damage that may be caused by future named windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico. Certain of Our Investments Are Subject To Risks That May Affect Their Liquidity and Value To maximize earnings on available cash balances, we periodically invest in securities that we consider to be short term in nature and generally available for short term liquidity needs. During 2007, we purchased asset backed securities that have an auction rate reset feature (auction rate securities). Our auction rate securities generally have contractual maturities of more than 20 years. However, the underlying interest rates on our securities are scheduled to reset every seven to 28 days. Therefore, when we bought these securities, they were generally priced and subsequently traded as short term investments because of the interest rate reset feature. At December 31, 2009, our auction rate securities totaled $115 million. Since February 8, 2008, we have experienced difficulty selling our securities due to the failure of the auction mechanism, which provided liquidity to these securities. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not do so. The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest and be auctioned every seven to 28 days until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities or the securities mature. Due to continued auction failures throughout 2009, we consider these investments to be long term in nature and generally not available for short term liquidity needs. Our auction rate securities are rated AAA the highest rating by one or more rating agencies and are collateralized by student loans that are substantially guaranteed by the United States government. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by problems in the global credit markets, including but not limited to, U.S. subprime mortgage defaults and writedowns by major financial institutions due to deteriorating values of their asset portfolios. These and other related factors have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. If 15 Table of Contents issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, our ability to liquidate these securities and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited. Under such circumstances, we may record an impairment charge on these investments in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties Property Overview Our oil and gas operations are concentrated in various North American onshore areas in the United States and Canada. We also have offshore operations that are situated principally in the Gulf of Mexico and regions located offshore Azerbaijan, Brazil and China. As previously mentioned, we are in the process of divesting our offshore assets. Our properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases and mineral acreage in these regions. These interests entitle us to drill for and produce oil, gas and NGLs from specific areas. Our interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, mineral and net profits interests, foreign government concessions and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties. We also have certain midstream assets, including natural gas and NGL processing plants and pipeline systems. Our most significant midstream assets are our assets serving the Barnett Shale region in north Texas. These assets include approximately 3,100 miles of pipeline, two natural gas processing plants with 750 MMcf per day of total capacity, and a 15 MBbls per day NGL fractionator. To support our continued development and growing production in the Woodford Shale, located in southeastern Oklahoma, we constructed the Northridge natural gas processing plant in 2008. The Northridge plant has a capacity of 200 MMcf per day. Our midstream assets also include the Access Pipeline transportation system in Canada. This 220 mile dual pipeline system extends from our Jackfish operations in northern Alberta to a 350 MBbls storage terminal near Edmonton. The dual pipeline system allows us to blend the Jackfish heavy oil production with condensate and transport the combined product to the Edmonton crude oil market for sale. We have a 50% ownership interest in the Access Pipeline. 16 Table of Contents The following sections provide additional details of our oil and gas properties, including information about proved reserves, production, wells, acreage and drilling activities. Property Profiles The locations of our key North American Onshore properties are presented on the following map. 17 Table of Contents The following table presents proved reserve information for our key properties as of December 31, 2009, along with their production volumes for the year 2009. Additional summary profile information for our key properties is provided following the table. Our key properties include those that currently have significant proved reserves or production. These key properties also include properties that do not have current significant levels of proved reserves or production, but are expected be the source of future significant growth in proved reserves and production. Proved Proved Reserves Reserves Production Production (MMBoe)(1) %(2) (MMBoe)(1) %(2) U.S. Onshore Barnett Shale 1,027 37.6 % 69 29.6 % Carthage 182 6.7 % 14 6.4 % Permian Basin, Texas 127 4.6 % 9 3.9 % Washakie 93 3.4 % 7 3.0 % Cana Woodford Shale 73 2.7 % 3 1.0 % Arkoma Woodford Shale 47 1.7 % 5 2.0 % Groesbeck 43 1.6 % 6 2.6 % Haynesville Shale 6 0.2 % 1 0.3 % Other U.S. Onshore 280 10.2 % 40 17.1 % Total U.S. Onshore 1,878 68.7 % 154 65.9 % U.S. Offshore 92 3.4 % 13 5.7 % Total U.S. 1,970 72.1 % 167 71.6 % Canada Jackfish 403 14.7 % 8 3.4 % Northwest 117 4.3 % 16 7.3 % Lloydminster 81 3.0 % 16 6.7 % Deep Basin 59 2.2 % 12 5.0 % Horn River Basin 2 Other Canada 101 3.7 % 14 6.0 % Total Canada 763 27.9 % 66 28.4 % North America 2,733 100.0 % 233 100.0 % (1) Gas reserves and production are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL reserves and production are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) Percentage of proved reserves and production the property bears to total proved reserves and production based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. U.S. Onshore Barnett Shale The Barnett Shale, located in north Texas, is our largest property both in terms of production and proved reserves. Our leases include approximately 663,000 net acres located primarily in Denton, Johnson, Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties. The Barnett Shale is a non conventional reservoir and it produces natural gas and NGLs. We have an average working interest of 89%. We drilled 336 gross wells in 2009 and plan to drill approximately 370 gross wells in 2010. 18 Table of Contents Carthage The Carthage area in east Texas includes primarily Harrison, Marion, Panola and Shelby counties. Our average working interest is about 86% and we hold approximately 218,000 net acres. Our Carthage area wells produce primarily natural gas and NGLs from conventional reservoirs. We drilled 39 gross wells in 2009 and plan to drill approximately 30 gross wells in 2010. Permian Basin, Texas Our oil and gas properties in the Permian Basin of west Texas comprise approximately 850,000 net acres located across several counties in west Texas. These properties produce both oil and gas from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in these properties is about 40%. In 2009, we drilled 80 gross wells and plan to drill approximately 220 gross wells in 2010. Washakie Our Washakie area leases are concentrated in Carbon and Sweetwater counties in southern Wyoming. Our average working interest is about 76% and we hold about 157,000 net acres in the area. The Washakie wells produce primarily natural gas from conventional reservoirs. In 2009, we drilled 94 gross wells and plan to drill approximately 115 gross wells in 2010. Cana Woodford Shale The Cana Woodford Shale is located in Canadian, Blaine and Caddo counties in western Oklahoma. Our average working interest is approximately 46% and we hold approximately 117,000 net acres. Our Cana Woodford Shale properties produce natural gas and NGLs from a non conventional reservoir. We drilled 47 gross wells in 2009 and plan to drill approximately 85 gross wells in 2010. To support our growing production in the Cana Woodford Shale, we are building a 200 MMcf per day natural gas processing facility. We expect to complete this facility in early 2011. Arkoma Woodford Shale Our Arkoma Woodford Shale properties in southeastern Oklahoma produce natural gas and NGLs from a non conventional reservoir. Our 58,000 net acres are concentrated in Coal and Hughes counties, and we have an average working interest of about 32%. In 2009, we drilled 61 gross wells in this area and plan to drill approximately 85 gross wells in 2010. Groesbeck The Groesbeck area of east Texas includes portions of Freestone, Leon, Limestone and Robertson counties. Our average working interest is approximately 72% and we hold about 132,000 net acres of land. The Groesbeck wells produce primarily natural gas from conventional reservoirs. In 2009, we drilled 13 gross wells and plan to drill approximately 10 gross wells in 2010. Haynesville Shale Our Haynesville Shale acreage spans across east Texas and north Louisiana with an average working interest of 92%. To date, our drilling activity has been focused on de risking the 157,000 acres located in Panola, Shelby and San Augustine counties in east Texas. We drilled 8 gross wells in 2009 and plan to drill approximately 30 gross wells in 2010. Canada Jackfish Jackfish is our 100% owned thermal heavy oil project in the non conventional oil sands of east central Alberta. We are employing steam assisted gravity drainage at Jackfish. In late 2009, Jackfishs gross production reached 33.7 MBbls of oil per day. Gross peak production is expected to be 35 MBbls per day with a flat production profile for greater than 20 years. We are currently constructing the second phase of Jackfish and evaluating the potential for a third phase. The second and third phases of Jackfish are each expected to also eventually produce 35 MBbls per day of heavy oil production. Northwest The Northwest region includes acreage within west central Alberta and northeast British Columbia. We hold approximately 1.9 million net acres in the region, which produces primarily natural gas and NGLs from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the area is approximately 73%. In 2009, we drilled 36 gross wells and plan to drill approximately 55 gross wells in 2010. Lloydminster Our Lloydminster properties are located to the south and east of Jackfish in eastern Alberta and western Saskatchewan. Lloydminster produces heavy oil by conventional means without steam injection. We hold 2.5 million net acres and have an 89% average working interest in our Lloydminster properties. In 2009, we drilled 239 gross wells and plan to drill approximately 140 gross wells in 2010. Deep Basin Our properties in Canadas Deep Basin include portions of west central Alberta and east central British Columbia. We hold approximately 570,000 net acres in the Deep Basin. The area produces 19 Table of Contents primarily natural gas and natural gas liquids from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the Deep Basin is 45%. In 2009, we drilled 30 gross wells and plan to drill approximately 35 gross wells in 2010. Horn River Basin The Horn River Basin, located in northeast British Columbia, is a non conventional reservoir targeting the Devonian Shale. Our leases include approximately 170,000 net acres with a 100% working interest. We drilled 2 gross wells in 2009. During 2010, we plan to drill 11 gross wells, consisting of 7 horizontal wells and 4 vertical stratigraphic test wells. Preparation of Reserves Estimates and Reserves Audits Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. To be considered proved, oil and gas reserves must be economically producible before contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. Also, the project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment as discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors. As a result, we have developed internal policies for estimating and recording reserves. Our policies regarding booking reserves require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance. Our policies assign responsibilities for compliance in reserves bookings to our Reserve Evaluation Group (the Group). These same policies also require that reserve estimates be made by professionally qualified reserves estimators (Qualified Estimators), as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers standards. The Group, which is led by Devons Director of Reserves and Economics, is responsible for the internal review and certification of reserves estimates. We ensure the Groups Director and key members of the Group have appropriate technical qualifications to oversee the preparation of reserves estimates. Such qualifications include any or all of the following: an undergraduate degree in petroleum engineering from an accredited university, or equivalent; a petroleum engineering license, or similar certification; memberships in oil and gas industry or trade groups; and relevant experience estimating reserves. The current Director of the Group and the Groups key members all have the qualifications listed above. Additionally, the Group reports independently of any of our operating divisions. The Groups Director reports to our Senior Vice President of Strategic Development, who reports to our President. No portion of the Groups compensation is directly dependent on the quantity of reserves booked. Throughout the year, the Group performs internal audits of each operating divisions reserves. Selection criteria of reserves that are audited include major fields and major additions and revisions to reserves. In addition, the Group reviews reserve estimates with each of the third party petroleum consultants discussed below. The Group also ensures our Qualified Estimators obtain continuing education related to the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments. The Group also oversees audits and reserves estimates performed by third party consulting firms. During 2009, we engaged three such firms to both prepare and audit a significant portion of our proved reserves. Ryder Scott Company, L.P. prepared the 2009 reserve estimates for all of our offshore Gulf of Mexico properties and for 99% of our International proved reserves. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. audited the 2009 reserve estimates for 93% of our domestic onshore properties. AJM Petroleum Consultants audited 91% of our Canadian reserves. 20 Table of Contents Set forth below is a summary of the North American reserves that were evaluated, either by preparation or audit, by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2009, 2008 and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Prepared Audited Prepared Audited Prepared Audited U.S. Onshore 93 % 92 % 88 % U.S. Offshore 100 % 100 % 100 % Total U.S. 5 % 89 % 5 % 87 % 6 % 82 % Canada 91 % 78 % 34 % 51 % Total North America 3 % 89 % 4 % 85 % 15 % 73 % Prepared reserves are those quantities of reserves that were prepared by an independent petroleum consultant. Audited reserves are those quantities of reserves that were estimated by our employees and audited by an independent petroleum consultant. An audit is an examination of a companys proved oil and gas reserves and net cash flow by an independent petroleum consultant that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such estimates, in aggregate, are reasonable and have been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. In addition to conducting these internal and external reviews, we also have a Reserves Committee that consists of three independent members of our Board of Directors. Although we are not required to have a Reserves Committee, we established ours in 2004 to provide additional oversight of our reserves estimation and certification process. The Reserves Committee was designed to assist the Board of Directors with its duties and responsibilities in evaluating and reporting our proved reserves, much like our Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in supervising our audit and financial reporting requirements. Besides being independent, the members of our Reserves Committee also have educational backgrounds in geology or petroleum engineering, as well as experience relevant to the reserves estimation process. The Reserves Committee meets at least twice a year to discuss reserves issues and policies, and periodically meets separately with our senior reserves engineering personnel and our independent petroleum consultants. The responsibilities of the Reserves Committee include the following: perform an annual review and evaluation of our consolidated oil, gas and NGL reserves; verify the integrity of our reserves evaluation and reporting system; evaluate, prepare and disclose our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to our oil, gas and NGL reserves; investigate and verify the qualifications and independence of our independent engineering consultants; monitor the performance of our independent engineering consultants; and monitor and evaluate our business practices and ethical standards in relation to the preparation and disclosure of reserves. 21 Table of Contents Proved Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Reserves The following table presents our estimated proved reserves by continent and for each significant country as of December 31, 2009. These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations in Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Proved Reserves U.S. Onshore 139 8,127 385 1,878 U.S. Offshore 33 342 2 92 Total U.S. 172 8,469 387 1,970 Canada 514 1,288 34 763 Total North America 686 9,757 421 2,733 Proved Developed Reserves U.S. Onshore 119 6,447 293 1,486 U.S. Offshore 21 185 1 53 Total U.S. 140 6,632 294 1,539 Canada 149 1,213 32 383 Total North America 289 7,845 326 1,922 Proved Undeveloped Reserves U.S. Onshore 20 1,680 92 392 U.S. Offshore 12 157 1 39 Total U.S. 32 1,837 93 431 Canada 365 75 2 380 Total North America 397 1,912 95 811 (1) Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil. This rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of natural gas and oil prices. Natural gas liquids reserves are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. No estimates of our proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of 2009 except in filings with the SEC and the Department of Energy (DOE). Reserve estimates filed with the SEC correspond with the estimates of our reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of our reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that we operate and to exclude all interests in wells that we do not operate. 22 Table of Contents Proved Developed Reserves As presented in the previous table, we had 1,922 MMBoe of proved developed reserves at December 31, 2009. Proved developed reserves consist of proved developed producing reserves and proved developed non producing reserves. The following table provides additional information regarding our proved developed reserves at December 31, 2009. Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Proved Developed Producing Reserves U.S. Onshore 111 5,859 265 1,354 U.S. Offshore 12 137 1 35 Total U.S. 123 5,996 266 1,389 Canada 137 1,075 28 344 Total North America 260 7,071 294 1,733 Proved Developed Non Producing Reserves U.S. Onshore 8 588 28 132 U.S. Offshore 9 48 18 Total U.S. 17 636 28 150 Canada 12 138 4 39 Total North America 29 774 32 189 (1) Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil. This rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of natural gas and oil prices. Natural gas liquids reserves are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. Proved Undeveloped Reserves The following table presents the changes in our total proved undeveloped reserves during 2009 (in MMBoe). Proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2008 424 Revisions due to prices 174 Revisions other than price (22 ) Extensions and discoveries 316 Conversion to proved developed reserves (81 ) Proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2009 811 During 2009, our proved undeveloped reserves increased 91%. A large contributor to the increase was our 2009 drilling activities, which increased our proved undeveloped reserves 316 MMBoe. Also as a result of 2009 drilling activities, we converted 81 MMBoe, or 19%, of the 2008 proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. Our proved undeveloped reserves at the end of 2009 largely relate to our operations at Jackfish and the Barnett Shale. Additionally, the 2009 positive revisions due to prices largely related to Jackfish. At the end of 2008, none of our Jackfish reserves were classified as proved due to low oil prices. However, as oil prices rebounded during 2009, our Jackfish reserves, including the reserves that were undeveloped at the end of 2008, once again became economic and were classified as proved at the end of 2009. The positive revision related to Jackfish reserves was partially offset by decreases in proved undeveloped gas reserves related to certain of our North American Onshore properties. 23 Table of Contents At the end of 2009, approximately 1% of our proved reserves had been classified as proved undeveloped for more than five years. The majority of such reserves relate to our deepwater Gulf of Mexico operations where sanctioned development projects often take longer than five years to complete. Proved Reserves Cash Flows The following table presents estimated cash flow information related to our December 31, 2009 estimated proved reserves. Similar to reserves, the cash flow estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations in Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Total Proved Proved Proved Developed Undeveloped Reserves Reserves Reserves (In millions) Pre Tax Future Net Revenue(1) United States $ 15,573 $ 13,381 $ 2,192 Canada 14,463 6,127 8,336 Total North America $ 30,036 $ 19,508 $ 10,528 Pre Tax 10% Present Value(1) United States $ 7,630 $ 7,452 $ 178 Canada 7,243 4,210 3,033 Total North America $ 14,873 $ 11,662 $ 3,211 Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows(1)(2) United States $ 5,880 Canada 5,523 Total North America $ 11,403 (1) Estimated pre tax future net revenue represents estimated future revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and development costs and site restoration and abandonment charges. The amounts shown do not give effect to depreciation, depletion and amortization, or to non property related expenses such as debt service and income tax expense. Future net revenues are calculated using prices that represent the average of the first day of the month price for the 12 month period prior to December 31, 2009. These prices were not changed except where different prices were fixed and determinable from applicable contracts. These assumptions yielded average prices over the life of our properties of $47.80 per Bbl of oil, $3.12 per Mcf of gas and $22.78 per Bbl of NGLs. Costs included in future net revenues are determined in a similar manner. The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced. The present value of after tax future net revenues discounted at 10% per annum (standardized measure) was $11.4 billion at the end of 2009. Included as part of standardized measure were discounted future income taxes of $3.4 billion. Excluding these taxes, the present value of our pre tax future net revenue (pre tax 10% present value) was $14.8 billion. We believe the pre tax 10% present value is a useful measure in addition to the after tax standardized measure. The pre tax 10% present value assists in both the determination of future cash flows of the current reserves as well as in making relative value comparisons among peer companies. The after tax standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company, while the pre tax 10% present value is based on prices and discount factors, 24 Table of Contents which are more consistent from company to company. We also understand that securities analysts use the pre tax 10% present value measure in similar ways. (2) See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Production, Production Prices and Production Costs The following tables present our production and average sales prices by continent and for each significant field and country for the past three years. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Production Barnett Shale 331 13 69 Other United States fields 17 412 13 98 Total United States 17 743 26 167 Jackfish 8 8 Other Canada fields 17 223 4 58 Total Canada 25 223 4 66 Total North America 42 966 30 233 Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Combined(1) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Production Prices Barnett Shale $ 58.78 $ 2.99 $ 22.36 $ 19.08 Total United States $ 57.56 $ 3.20 $ 23.51 $ 23.71 Jackfish $ 41.07 $ 41.07 Total Canada $ 47.35 $ 3.66 $ 33.09 $ 32.29 Total North America $ 51.39 $ 3.31 $ 24.71 $ 26.15 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Production Barnett Shale 321 12 66 Other United States fields 17 405 12 96 Total United States 17 726 24 162 Jackfish 4 4 Other Canada fields 18 212 4 57 Total Canada 22 212 4 61 Total North America 39 938 28 223 25 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Combined(1) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Production Prices Barnett Shale $ 97.23 $ 7.38 $ 39.34 $ 43.71 Total United States $ 98.83 $ 7.59 $ 41.21 $ 50.55 Jackfish $ 50.67 $ 50.67 Total Canada $ 71.04 $ 8.17 $ 61.45 $ 57.65 Total North America $ 83.35 $ 7.73 $ 44.08 $ 52.49 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Production Barnett Shale 238 10 50 Other United States fields 19 397 12 96 Total United States 19 635 22 146 Total Canada 16 227 4 58 Total North America 35 862 26 204 Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Combined(1) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Production Prices Barnett Shale $ 70.61 $ 5.63 $ 34.68 $ 34.28 Total United States $ 69.23 $ 5.87 $ 36.11 $ 39.77 Total Canada $ 49.80 $ 6.24 $ 46.07 $ 41.51 Total North America $ 60.30 $ 5.97 $ 37.76 $ 40.26 (1) Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil. This rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of natural gas and oil prices. Natural gas liquids reserves are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. The following table presents our production cost per Boe by continent and for each significant field and country for the past three years. Production costs do not include ad valorem or severance taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Barnett Shale $ 3.96 $ 4.34 $ 3.85 Total United States $ 5.97 $ 6.62 $ 6.19 Jackfish $ 12.75 $ 28.93 Total Canada $ 10.15 $ 12.74 $ 10.80 Total North America $ 7.16 $ 8.29 $ 7.50 26 Table of Contents Drilling Activities and Results The following tables summarize our development and exploratory drilling results for the past three years. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Development Wells(1) Exploratory Wells(1) Total Wells(1) Productive Dry Productive Dry Productive Dry U.S. Onshore 506.5 3.0 6.8 1.5 513.3 4.5 U.S. Offshore 1.5 0.8 0.5 1.5 1.3 Total U.S. 508.0 3.8 6.8 2.0 514.8 5.8 Canada 307.2 28.2 335.4 Total North America 815.2 3.8 35.0 2.0 850.2 5.8 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Development Wells(1) Exploratory Wells(1) Total Wells(1) Productive Dry Productive Dry Productive Dry U.S. Onshore 1,024.0 17.5 12.8 2.0 1,036.8 19.5 U.S. Offshore 9.0 1.0 0.8 1.8 9.8 2.8 Total U.S. 1,033.0 18.5 13.6 3.8 1,046.6 22.3 Canada 528.9 3.2 50.1 3.3 579.0 6.5 Total North America 1,561.9 21.7 63.7 7.1 1,625.6 28.8 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Development Wells(1) Exploratory Wells(1) Total Wells(1) Productive Dry Productive Dry Productive Dry U.S. Onshore 974.4 21.1 10.1 4.0 984.5 25.1 U.S. Offshore 3.7 1.5 0.2 5.2 0.2 Total U.S. 978.1 21.1 11.6 4.2 989.7 25.3 Canada 531.2 83.3 1.5 614.5 1.5 Total North America 1,509.3 21.1 94.9 5.7 1,604.2 26.8 (1) These well counts represent net wells completed during each year. Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests on the well. The following table presents the results, as of February 1, 2010, of our wells that were in progress as of December 31, 2009. Productive Dry Still in Progress Total Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) U.S. Onshore 13 9.1 46 33.2 59 42.3 U.S. Offshore 3 1.5 3 1.5 Total U.S. 13 9.1 49 34.7 62 43.8 Canada 18 13.7 3 2.5 21 16.2 Total North America 31 22.8 52 37.2 83 60.0 (1) Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. 27 Table of Contents (2) Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests on the well. Well Statistics The following table sets forth our producing wells as of December 31, 2009. Oil Wells Natural Gas Wells Total Wells Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) U.S. Onshore 8,301 2,901 19,792 13,442 28,093 16,343 U.S. Offshore 359 284 204 138 563 422 Total U.S. 8,660 3,185 19,996 13,580 28,656 16,765 Canada 4,830 3,661 5,560 3,241 10,390 6,902 Total North America 13,490 6,846 25,556 16,821 39,046 23,667 (1) Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. (2) Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests on the well. Acreage Statistics The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2009. Developed Undeveloped Total Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) (In thousands) U.S. Onshore 3,357 2,268 6,064 3,318 9,421 5,586 U.S. Offshore 258 139 1,809 1,029 2,067 1,168 Total U.S. 3,615 2,407 7,873 4,347 11,488 6,754 Canada 3,630 2,253 7,688 5,088 11,318 7,341 Total North America 7,245 4,660 15,561 9,435 22,806 14,095 (1) Gross acres are the sum of all acres in which we own an interest. (2) Net acres are gross acres multiplied by our fractional working interests on the acreage. Operation of Properties The day to day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. We are the operator of 24,221 of our wells. As operator, we receive reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of our duties as well as monthly per well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area. In presenting our financial data, we record the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice. Title to Properties Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. We believe that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business. 28 Table of Contents As is customary in the industry, other than a preliminary review of local records, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisitions of undeveloped properties. Investigations, which generally include a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are involved in various routine legal proceedings incidental to our business. However, to our knowledge as of the date of this report, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which we are a party or to which any of our property is subject. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2009. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE). On February 15, 2010, there were 13,740 holders of record of our common stock. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported by the NYSE during 2009 and 2008. Also, included are the quarterly dividends per share paid during 2009 and 2008. We began paying regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock in the second quarter of 1993. We anticipate continuing to pay regular quarterly dividends in the foreseeable future. Price Range of Common Stock Dividends High Low Per Share 2009: Quarter Ended March 31, 2009 $ 73.11 $ 38.55 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended June 30, 2009 $ 67.40 $ 43.35 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended September 30, 2009 $ 72.91 $ 48.74 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended December 31, 2009 $ 75.05 $ 62.60 $ 0.16 2008: Quarter Ended March 31, 2008 $ 108.13 $ 74.56 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended June 30, 2008 $ 127.16 $ 101.31 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended September 30, 2008 $ 127.43 $ 82.10 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended December 31, 2008 $ 91.69 $ 54.40 $ 0.16 30 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following performance graph compares the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total shareholder return on Devons common stock with the cumulative total returns of the Standard Poors 500 index (the SP 500 Index) and the group of companies included in the Crude Petroleum and Natural Gas Standard Industrial Classification code (the SIC Code). The graph was prepared based on the following assumptions: $100 was invested on December 31, 2004 in Devons common stock, the SP 500 Index and the SIC Code, and Dividends have been reinvested subsequent to the initial investment. Comparison of 5 Year Cumulative Total Return The graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate such information by reference into such a filing. The graph and information is included for historical comparative purposes only and should not be considered indicative of future stock performance. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During 2009, we had two programs in effect in which our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to 54.8 million shares of our common stock. We did not repurchase any shares under these programs in 2009. These plans expired on December 31, 2009. New York Stock Exchange Certifications This Form 10 K includes as exhibits the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, or persons performing similar functions, required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. We have also filed with the New York Stock Exchange the 2009 annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer confirming that we have complied with the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance listing standards. 31 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information (not covered by the report of our independent registered public accounting firm) should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (In millions, except per share data, ratios, prices and per Boe amounts) Operating Results Revenues $ 8,015 $ 13,858 $ 9,975 $ 9,143 $ 9,630 Total expenses and other income, net(1) 12,541 18,018 6,648 5,957 5,477 (Loss) earnings from continuing operations before income taxes (4,526 ) (4,160 ) 3,327 3,186 4,153 Total income tax (benefit) expense (1,773 ) (1,121 ) 842 870 1,413 (Loss) earnings from continuing operations (2,753 ) (3,039 ) 2,485 2,316 2,740 Earnings from discontinued operations(1) 274 891 1,121 530 190 Net (loss) earnings $ (2,479 ) $ (2,148 ) $ 3,606 $ 2,846 $ 2,930 Net (loss) earnings applicable to common stockholders $ (2,479 ) $ (2,153 ) $ 3,596 $ 2,836 $ 2,920 Basic net (loss) earnings per share: (Loss) earnings from continuing operations $ (6.20 ) $ (6.86 ) $ 5.56 $ 5.22 $ 5.96 Earnings from discontinued operations 0.62 2.01 2.52 1.20 0.42 Net (loss) earnings $ (5.58 ) $ (4.85 ) $ 8.08 $ 6.42 $ 6.38 Diluted net (loss) earnings per share: (Loss) earnings from continuing operations $ (6.20 ) $ (6.86 ) $ 5.50 $ 5.15 $ 5.86 Earnings from discontinued operations 0.62 2.01 2.50 1.19 0.40 Net (loss) earnings $ (5.58 ) $ (4.85 ) $ 8.00 $ 6.34 $ 6.26 Cash dividends per common share $ 0.64 $ 0.64 $ 0.56 $ 0.45 $ 0.30 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(1)(2) N/A N/A 6.97 7.11 7.67 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends(1)(2) N/A N/A 6.78 6.91 7.49 Cash Flow Data Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,737 $ 9,408 $ 6,651 $ 5,993 $ 5,612 Net cash used in investing activities $ (5,354 ) $ (6,873 ) $ (5,714 ) $ (7,449 ) $ (1,652 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 1,201 $ (3,408 ) $ (371 ) $ 593 $ (3,543 ) Production, Price and Other Data(3) Production: Oil (MMBbls) 42 39 35 32 38 Gas (Bcf) 966 938 862 807 816 NGLs (MMBbls) 30 28 26 23 24 Total (MMBoe)(4) 233 223 204 190 198 Realized prices without hedges: Oil (per Bbl) $ 51.39 $ 83.35 $ 60.30 $ 56.18 $ 47.90 Gas (per Mcf) $ 3.31 $ 7.73 $ 5.97 $ 6.03 $ 7.08 NGLs (per Bbl) $ 24.71 $ 44.08 $ 37.76 $ 32.10 $ 29.05 Combined (per Boe)(4) $ 26.15 $ 52.49 $ 40.26 $ 39.09 $ 41.96 Lease operating expenses per Boe(4) $ 7.16 $ 8.29 $ 7.50 $ 6.48 $ 5.60 Depreciation, depletion and amortization of oil and gas properties per Boe(4) $ 7.86 $ 13.20 $ 11.81 $ 10.28 $ 8.62 32 Table of Contents December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Balance Sheet Data Total assets(1) $ 29,686 $ 31,908 $ 41,456 $ 35,063 $ 30,273 Long term debt $ 5,847 $ 5,661 $ 6,924 $ 5,568 $ 5,957 Stockholders equity $ 15,570 $ 17,060 $ 22,006 $ 17,442 $ 14,862 (1) During 2009 and 2008, we recorded noncash reductions of carrying value of oil and gas properties totaling $6.4 billion ($4.1 billion after income taxes) and $9.9 billion ($6.7 billion after income taxes), respectively, related to our continuing operations as discussed in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. During 2009, 2008 and 2007 we recorded noncash reductions of carrying value of oil and gas properties totaling $108 million ($105 million after taxes), $494 million ($465 million after taxes) and $68 million ($13 million after taxes) related to our discontinued operations as discussed in Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements. (2) For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and the ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends, (i) earnings consist of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, plus fixed charges; (ii) fixed charges consist of interest expense and one third of rental expense estimated to be attributable to interest; and (iii) preferred stock dividends consist of the amount of pre tax earnings required to pay dividends on the preferred stock that was outstanding until June 2008. For 2009, earnings from continuing operations were inadequate to cover fixed charges by $4.6 billion. For 2008, earnings from continuing operations were inadequate to cover fixed charges and combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends by $4.2 billion. These earnings relationships were primarily the result of the noncash reductions of the carrying values of certain oil and gas properties referred to above. (3) The amounts presented under Production, Price and Other Data exclude the amounts related to our discontinued international operations. The price data presented excludes the effects of unrealized and realized gains and losses from our oil and gas derivative financial instruments. (4) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. The respective prices of oil, gas and NGLs are affected by market and other factors in addition to relative energy content. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The following discussion and analysis presents managements perspective of our business, financial condition and overall performance. This information is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our past performance, current financial condition and outlook for the future and should be reviewed in conjunction with our Selected Financial Data and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our discussion and analysis relates to the following subjects: Overview of Business Overview of 2009 Results Business and Industry Outlook Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Contingencies and Legal Matters 33 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Forward Looking Estimates Overview of Business Devon is one of North Americas leading independent oil and gas exploration and production companies. Our operations are focused in the United States and Canada. We also own natural gas pipelines and treatment facilities in many of our producing areas, making us one of North Americas larger processors of natural gas liquids. As an enterprise, we strive to optimize value for our shareholders by growing reserves, production, earnings and cash flows, all on a per share basis. We accomplish this by replenishing our reserves and production and managing other key operational elements that drive our success. These items are discussed more fully below. Reserves and production growth Our financial condition and profitability are significantly affected by the amount of proved reserves we own. Oil and gas properties are our most significant assets, and the reserves that relate to such properties are key to our future success. To increase our proved reserves, we must replace quantities produced with additional reserves from successful exploration and development activities or property acquisitions. Additionally, our profitability and operating cash flows are largely dependent on the amount of oil, gas and NGLs we produce. Growing production from existing properties is difficult because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. As a result, we constantly drill for and develop reserves on properties that provide a balance of near term and long term production. In addition, we may acquire properties with proved reserves that we can develop and subsequently produce to help us meet our production goals. Capital investment discipline Effectively deploying our resources into capital projects is key to maintaining and growing future production and oil and gas reserves. As a result, we have historically deployed virtually all our available cash flow into capital projects. Therefore, maintaining a disciplined approach to investing in capital projects is important to our profitability and financial condition. Our ability to control capital expenditures can be affected by changes in commodity prices. During times of high commodity prices, drilling and related costs often escalate due to the effects of supply versus demand economics. The inverse is also true. Approximately two thirds of our planned 2010 investment in capital projects is dedicated to a foundation of low risk projects in our North American Onshore properties. The remainder of our capital has been identified for longer term projects primarily in new unconventional natural gas plays in several U.S. Onshore regions, as well as offshore activities in the Gulf of Mexico. By deploying our capital in this manner, we are able to consistently deliver cost efficient drill bit growth and provide a strong source of cash flow while balancing short term and long term growth targets. The timing of closing the planned sales of our Gulf of Mexico properties will impact exactly how much of our 2010 capital is used on our Gulf of Mexico assets. High margin assets Like many investors, we seek to invest our capital resources into projects where we can generate the highest risk adjusted investment returns. One factor that can have a significant impact on such returns is our drilling success rates. Combined with appropriate revenue and cost management strategies, high drilling success rates are important to generating competitive returns on our capital investment. During 2009, we drilled 1,135 wells and 99% of those were successful. The success rate is similar to our drilling achievements in recent years, demonstrating a proven track record of success. By accomplishing high drilling success rates, we provide an inventory of reserves growth and a platform of opportunities on our undrilled acreage that can be profitably developed. Reserves and production balance As evidenced by history, commodity prices are inherently volatile. In addition, oil and gas prices often diverge due to a variety of circumstances. Consequently, we value a balance of reserves and production between gas and liquids that can add stability to our revenue stream when either commodity price is under pressure. Our production mix in 2009 was 34 Table of Contents approximately 70% gas and 30% oil and NGLs such as propane, butane and ethane. Our year end reserves were approximately 60% gas and 40% liquids. With planned future growth in oil from our Jackfish and other projects, combined with an inventory of shale natural gas plays, we expect to maintain this balance in the future. Operating cost controls To maintain our competitive position, we must control our lease operating costs and other production costs. As reservoirs are depleted and production rates decline, per unit production costs will generally increase and affect our profitability and operating cash flows. Similar to capital expenditures, our ability to control operating costs can be affected by significant changes in commodity prices. Our base North American production is focused in core areas of our operations where we can achieve economies of scale to help manage our operating costs. Marketing and midstream performance improvement We enhance the value of our oil and gas operations with our marketing and midstream business. By efficiently gathering and processing oil, gas and NGL production, our midstream operations contribute to our strategies to grow reserves and production and manage expenditures. Additionally, by effectively marketing our production, we maximize the prices received for our oil, gas and NGL production in relation to market prices. This is important because our profitability is highly dependent on market prices. These prices are determined primarily by market conditions. Market conditions for these products have been, and will continue to be, influenced by regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other factors that are beyond our control. To manage this volatility, we utilize financial hedging arrangements and fixed price physical delivery contracts. As of February 15, 2010, approximately 53% of our 2010 gas production is associated with financial price swaps and collars. Additionally, approximately 65% of our 2010 oil production is associated with financial price collars. Financial flexibility preservation As mentioned, commodity prices have been and will continue to be volatile and will continue to impact our profitability and cash flow. We understand this fact and manage our debt levels accordingly to preserve our liquidity and financial flexibility. We generally operate within the cash flow generated by our operations. However, during periods of low commodity prices, we may use our balance sheet strength to access debt or equity markets, allowing us to preserve our business and maintain momentum until markets recover. When prices improve, we can utilize excess operating cash flow to repay debt and invest in our activities that not only maintain but also increase value per share. Overview of 2009 Results 2009 was a pivotal year for us as we began repositioning Devon to focus entirely on our high return, North American Onshore natural gas and oil portfolio. We grew North American Onshore production more than six percent in 2009 and replaced more than twice our production with the drill bit at very attractive costs. The performance of these assets is reflected in our earnings, which steadily increased over the last three quarters of 2009. However, our full year 2009 results were significantly impacted by the downward pressure in oil and natural gas prices that began in the last half of 2008 and continued throughout 2009. The Henry Hub natural gas index average for 2009 was 56% lower than 2008. Although crude prices have improved since the end of 2008, the 2009 West Texas Intermediate oil index average was 38% lower than 2008. The lower oil and gas prices significantly impacted our first quarter 2009 earnings, which in turn impacted our full year earnings. During 2009, we incurred a net loss of $2.5 billion, or $5.58 per diluted share. These amounts are the result of a noncash impairment of our oil and gas properties that was recognized in the first quarter of 2009 and totaled $4.2 billion, net of income taxes. Substantially all of this noncash charge was the result of the drop in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2009. Key measures of our performance for 2009, as well as certain operational developments, are summarized below: Production grew 4% over 2008, to 233 million Boe. 35 Table of Contents The combined realized price for oil, gas and NGLs per Boe decreased 50% to $26.15. Oil and gas hedges generated net gains of $384 million in 2009, including cash receipts of $505 million. Marketing and midstream operating profit decreased 25% to $512 million. Per unit lease operating costs decreased 14% to $7.16 per Boe. Operating cash flow decreased to $4.7 billion, representing a 50% decrease over 2008. Capitalized costs incurred in our oil and gas activities were $4.1 billion in 2009. From an operational perspective, we completed another successful year with the drill bit. We drilled 1,135 gross wells with an overall 99% rate of success. This success rate enabled us to increase proved reserves by 496 million Boe, which was more than double our 2009 production. Our drilling success was driven by North American Onshore development wells, which represented 95% of the wells drilled. Besides another successful year of North American Onshore drilling, we had several other key operational achievements during 2009. The first phase of our 100% owned Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in the Alberta oil sands was operational throughout 2009. As measured by production per well and steam to oil ratio, Jackfish is one of Canadas most successful steam assisted gravity drainage projects. In late 2009, Jackfishs gross production reached 33.7 MBbls of oil per day. The addition of four more producing wells is expected to push production to the facilitys capacity of 35 MBbls per day in early 2010. We continued construction throughout 2009 on a second phase of the Jackfish project. Jackfish 2 is also sized to produce 35 MBbls of oil per day and will commence operations in 2011. Further expansion into a third phase of Jackfish is planned for 2010. We expect to file a regulatory application for Jackfish 3 in the third quarter of 2010. Elsewhere in North America, we are expanding and developing five natural gas shale plays where we own a total of 1.6 million net acres. At the Barnett Shale, the most mature of our shale plays, we pushed our total producing wells to almost 4,200 at the end of 2009, and we exited the year producing just over one Bcfe per day. In the Cana Woodford Shale and Arkoma Woodford Shale, we drilled a total of 108 wells, increasing reserves to 120 MMBoe. In the Haynesville Shale, our drilling has been focused on de risking our acreage in the greater Carthage area of east Texas. Finally, at Horn River, we have assembled a portfolio of acreage that requires minimal drilling to hold. We are in the early stages of evaluating the full potential of these leases and formulating a development plan. Even with the net loss, we maintained a solid financial position throughout 2009. We used operating cash flow, borrowings and cash on hand to fund $5.3 billion of capital expenditures and pay $284 million of dividends. At the end of 2009, we had $1.0 billion of cash and $1.8 billion of availability under our credit lines. Business and Industry Outlook Over the past decade we captured an abundance of resources. We pioneered horizontal drilling in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas and extended this technique to other natural gas shale plays in the United States and Canada. We became proficient with steam assisted gravity drainage with our Jackfish oil sands development in Alberta, Canada. We achieved key oil discoveries with our drilling in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and offshore Brazil. We have more than tripled our proved oil and gas reserves since 2000 and have also assembled an extensive inventory of exploration assets, representing additional unproved resources. Building off our past successes, in November 2009, we announced plans to strategically reposition Devon as a high growth, North American onshore exploration and production company. As part of this strategic repositioning, we plan to bring forward the value of our offshore assets located in the Gulf of Mexico and countries outside North America by divesting them. 36 Table of Contents This repositioning is driven by our desire to unlock and accelerate the realization of the value underlying the deep inventory of opportunities we have. We have assembled a valuable portfolio of offshore assets, and we have a considerable inventory of premier North American onshore assets. However, our North American Onshore assets have consistently provided us our highest risk adjusted investment returns. By selling our offshore assets, we can more aggressively pursue the untapped value of these North American Onshore opportunities. We expect to receive after tax proceeds of between $4.5 billion and $7.5 billion as we divest our U.S. Offshore and International properties in 2010. By using a portion of these proceeds to reduce debt, we will further strengthen our balance sheet. Besides reducing debt, the offshore divestiture proceeds are expected to provide significant funds to redeploy into our prolific North American Onshore opportunities. With these added funds, we plan to accelerate the growth and realization of the value of our North American Onshore assets. Results of Operations As previously stated, we are in the process of divesting our offshore assets. As a result, all amounts in this document related to our International operations are presented as discontinued. Therefore, the production, revenue and expense amounts presented in this Results of Operations section exclude amounts related to our International assets unless otherwise noted. Even though we are also divesting our U.S. Offshore operations, these properties do not qualify as discontinued operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and operating data provided in this document that pertain to our continuing operations include amounts related to our U.S. Offshore operations. To facilitate comparisons of our ongoing operations subsequent to the planned divestitures, we have presented amounts related to our U.S. Offshore assets separate from those of our North American Onshore assets where appropriate. Unless otherwise stated, all dollar amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars. Revenues Our oil, gas and NGL production volumes from 2007 to 2009 are shown in the following table. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 Oil (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 12 +3 % 11 +0 % 11 Canada 25 +17 % 22 +34 % 16 North American Onshore 37 +12 % 33 +20 % 27 U.S. Offshore 5 15 % 6 24 % 8 Total 42 +8 % 39 +10 % 35 Gas (Bcf) U.S. Onshore 698 +5 % 669 +20 % 558 Canada 223 +5 % 212 6 % 227 North American Onshore 921 +5 % 881 +12 % 785 U.S. Offshore 45 22 % 57 25 % 77 Total 966 +3 % 938 +9 % 862 37 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 NGLs (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 25 +9 % 24 +14 % 21 Canada 4 5 % 4 6 % 4 North American Onshore 29 +7 % 28 +11 % 25 U.S. Offshore 1 +27 % 26 % 1 Total 30 +7 % 28 +10 % 26 Total (MMBoe)(1) U.S. Onshore 154 +5 % 146 +17 % 124 Canada 66 +9 % 61 +5 % 58 North American Onshore 220 +6 % 207 +13 % 182 U.S. Offshore 13 18 % 16 25 % 22 Total 233 +4 % 223 +9 % 204 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in the table. The following table presents the prices we realized on our production volumes from 2007 to 2009. These prices exclude any effects due to our oil and gas derivative financial instruments. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 Oil (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 56.17 41 % $ 95.63 +42 % $ 67.34 Canada $ 47.35 33 % $ 71.04 +43 % $ 49.80 North American Onshore $ 50.11 37 % $ 79.45 +39 % $ 56.99 U.S. Offshore $ 60.75 42 % $ 104.90 +46 % $ 71.95 Total $ 51.39 38 % $ 83.35 +38 % $ 60.30 Gas (per Mcf) U.S. Onshore $ 3.14 58 % $ 7.43 +30 % $ 5.69 Canada $ 3.66 55 % $ 8.17 +31 % $ 6.24 North American Onshore $ 3.27 57 % $ 7.61 +30 % $ 5.85 U.S. Offshore $ 4.20 56 % $ 9.53 +33 % $ 7.17 Total $ 3.31 57 % $ 7.73 +29 % $ 5.97 38 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 NGLs (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 23.40 43 % $ 40.97 +14 % $ 36.08 Canada $ 33.09 46 % $ 61.45 +33 % $ 46.07 North American Onshore $ 24.65 44 % $ 43.94 +16 % $ 37.80 U.S. Offshore $ 27.42 46 % $ 51.11 +39 % $ 36.78 Total $ 24.71 44 % $ 44.08 +17 % $ 37.76 Combined (per Boe)(1) U.S. Onshore $ 22.41 53 % $ 47.91 +28 % $ 37.45 Canada $ 32.29 44 % $ 57.65 +39 % $ 41.51 North American Onshore $ 25.38 50 % $ 50.78 +31 % $ 38.74 U.S. Offshore $ 38.83 48 % $ 74.55 +40 % $ 53.30 Total $ 26.15 50 % $ 52.49 +30 % $ 40.26 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in the table. The volume and price changes in the tables above caused the following changes to our oil, gas and NGL sales between 2007 and 2009. Oil Gas NGL Total (In millions) 2007 sales $ 2,117 $ 5,138 $ 970 $ 8,225 Changes due to volumes 222 459 95 776 Changes due to prices 894 1,647 178 2,719 2008 sales 3,233 7,244 1,243 11,720 Changes due to volumes 258 222 89 569 Changes due to prices (1,338 ) (4,269 ) (585 ) (6,192 ) 2009 sales $ 2,153 $ 3,197 $ 747 $ 6,097 Oil Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Oil sales decreased $1.3 billion as a result of a 38% decrease in our realized price without hedges. The average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price decreased 38% during the same time period, accounting for the majority of the decrease in our realized price. Oil sales increased $258 million due to a three million barrel, or 8%, increase in production. The increased production resulted primarily from the continued development of our Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in Canada. 2008 vs. 2007 Oil sales increased $894 million as a result of a 38% increase in our realized price without hedges. The average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price increased 38% during the same time period, accounting for the majority of the increase in our realized price. Oil sales increased $222 million due to a four million barrel, or 10%, increase in production. Production from our Canadian operations increased approximately six million barrels in 2008 as a result of first oil sales 39 Table of Contents at Jackfish and heavy oil development activity at Lloydminster. This increase was partially offset by the deferral of 0.5 million barrels of oil production from our U.S. Offshore properties due to hurricanes. Gas Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Gas sales decreased $4.3 billion as a result of a 57% decrease in our realized price without hedges. This decrease was largely due to decreases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A 28 Bcf, or 3%, increase in production during 2009 caused gas sales to increase by $222 million. Our North American Onshore properties contributed 40 Bcf of higher volumes. This increase included 25 Bcf of higher production in Canada due to a decline in Canadian government royalties, resulting largely from lower gas prices. The remainder of the North American Onshore growth resulted from new drilling and development that exceeded natural production declines, primarily in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas. These increases were partially offset by 12 Bcf of lower production from our U.S. Offshore properties, largely resulting from natural production declines. 2008 vs. 2007 Gas sales increased $1.6 billion as a result of a 29% increase in our realized price without hedges. This increase was largely due to increases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A 76 Bcf, or 9%, increase in production during 2008 caused gas sales to increase by $459 million. Our North American Onshore properties contributed 96 Bcf to our growth as a result of new drilling and development that exceeded natural production declines. This increase was led by our drilling and development program in the Barnett Shale, which contributed 83 Bcf to the gas production increase. This increase and the effect of new drilling and development in our other North American Onshore properties were partially offset by natural production declines and the deferral of seven Bcf of production in our U.S. Offshore properties in 2008 due to hurricanes. NGL Sales 2009 vs. 2008 NGL sales decreased $585 million as a result of a 44% decrease in our realized price without hedges. This decrease was largely due to decreases in the regional index prices upon which our U.S. Onshore NGL sales are based. NGL sales increased $89 million in 2009 due to a two million barrel, or 7%, increase in production. The increase in production is primarily due to drilling and development in the Barnett Shale. 2008 vs. 2007 NGL sales increased $178 million as a result of a 17% increase in our realized price without hedges. This increase was largely due to increases in the regional index prices upon which our U.S. Onshore NGL sales are based. NGL sales increased $95 million in 2008 due to a two million barrel, or 10%, increase in production. The increase in production is primarily due to Barnett Shale drilling and development. 40 Table of Contents Net Gain (Loss) on Oil and Gas Derivative Financial Instruments The following tables provide financial information associated with our oil and gas derivative financial instruments from 2007 to 2009. The first table presents the cash settlements and unrealized gains and losses recognized as components of our revenues. The subsequent tables present our oil, gas and NGL prices with, and without, the effects of the cash settlements from 2007 to 2009. The prices do not include the effects of unrealized gains and losses. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Cash settlement receipts (payments): Gas price collars $ 450 $ (221 ) $ 2 Gas price swaps 55 (203 ) 38 Oil price collars 27 Total cash settlements 505 (397 ) 40 Unrealized (losses) gains on fair value changes: Gas price collars (255 ) 255 (4 ) Gas price swaps 169 (12 ) (22 ) Gas basis swaps 3 Oil price collars (38 ) Total unrealized (losses) gains on fair value changes (121 ) 243 (26 ) Net gain (loss) $ 384 $ (154 ) $ 14 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 51.39 $ 3.31 $ 24.71 $ 26.15 Cash settlements of hedges 0.52 2.16 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 51.39 $ 3.83 $ 24.71 $ 28.31 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 83.35 $ 7.73 $ 44.08 $ 52.49 Cash settlements of hedges 0.70 (0.46 ) (1.78 ) Realized price, including cash settlements $ 84.05 $ 7.27 $ 44.08 $ 50.71 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 60.30 $ 5.97 $ 37.76 $ 40.26 Cash settlements of hedges 0.04 0.20 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 60.30 $ 6.01 $ 37.76 $ 40.46 Our oil and gas derivative financial instruments include price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. For the price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counterparty. For the basis swaps, we receive a fixed differential between two regional gas index prices and pay a variable differential on the same two index prices to the contract counterparty. The price collars set a floor and ceiling price. If the applicable monthly price indices are outside of the ranges set by the 41 Table of Contents floor and ceiling prices in the various collars, we cash settle the difference with the counterparty to the collars. Cash settlements as presented in the tables above represent realized gains or losses related to our price swaps and collars. In addition to recognizing these cash settlement effects, we also recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our oil and gas derivative instruments in each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of our oil and gas derivative financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Based on the amount of volumes subject to our gas price swaps and collars at December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our 2009 unrealized losses for our gas derivative financial instruments by approximately $264 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil derivative financial instruments would have increased our 2009 unrealized losses by approximately $108 million. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. Counterparty credit risk is also a component of commodity derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with numerous counterparties. Our commodity derivative contracts are held with twelve separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2009, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. During 2009, the fair value of our oil and gas derivative financial instruments dropped by $121 million. This reduction largely resulted from the reversal of previously recorded unrealized gains on our gas price collar contracts, which was expected as the contracts settled throughout 2009 and expired on December 31, 2009. This reduction, as well as the reduction related to our oil price collars, were partially offset by unrealized gains on gas swap contracts that we entered into during 2009 and will be settled throughout 2010. During 2008, the fair value of our gas derivative financial instruments increased by $243 million, which was largely due to a decrease in the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve. Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Operating Costs and Expenses The changes in marketing and midstream revenues, operating costs and expenses and the resulting operating profit between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 ($ in millions) Marketing and midstream: Revenues $ 1,534 33 % $ 2,292 +32 % $ 1,736 Operating costs and expenses 1,022 37 % 1,611 +32 % 1,217 Operating profit $ 512 25 % $ 681 +31 % $ 519 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 Marketing and midstream revenues decreased $758 million and operating costs and expenses decreased $589 million, causing operating profit to decrease $169 million. Both revenues and 42 Table of Contents expenses decreased primarily due to lower natural gas and NGL prices, partially offset by higher NGL production and gas pipeline throughput. 2008 vs. 2007 Marketing and midstream revenues increased $556 million and operating costs and expenses increased $394 million, causing operating profit to increase $162 million. Both revenues and expenses increased primarily due to higher natural gas and NGL prices and increased gas pipeline throughput. Lease Operating Expenses (LOE) The changes in LOE between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 Lease operating expenses ($ in millions): U.S. Onshore $ 838 6 % $ 893 +25 % $ 712 Canada 673 13 % 776 +24 % 627 North American Onshore 1,511 10 % 1,669 +25 % 1,339 U.S. Offshore 159 13 % 182 6 % 193 Total $ 1,670 10 % $ 1,851 +21 % $ 1,532 Lease operating expenses per Boe: U.S. Onshore $ 5.46 11 % $ 6.11 +7 % $ 5.70 Canada $ 10.15 20 % $ 12.74 +18 % $ 10.80 North American Onshore $ 6.87 15 % $ 8.06 +10 % $ 7.32 U.S. Offshore $ 11.98 +6 % $ 11.29 +25 % $ 9.04 Total $ 7.16 14 % $ 8.29 +11 % $ 7.50 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 LOE decreased $181 million in 2009. LOE dropped $182 million due to declining costs for fuel, materials, equipment and personnel, as well as declines in maintenance and well workover projects. Such declines largely resulted from decreasing demand for field services due to lower oil and gas prices. Changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar reduced LOE $49 million. Additionally, LOE decreased $31 million as a result of hurricane damages in 2008 to certain of our U.S. Offshore facilities and transportation systems. These factors were also the main contributors to the decrease in LOE per Boe on our North American Onshore properties. Production growth at our large scale Jackfish project also contributed to a decrease in LOE per Boe. As Jackfish production approached the facilitys capacity during 2009, its per unit costs declined, contributing to lower overall LOE per Boe. The remainder of our 4% production growth added $81 million to LOE during 2009. 2008 vs. 2007 LOE increased $319 million in 2008. The largest individual contributor to this increase, as well as the increase in LOE per Boe, was higher per unit costs associated with the new thermal heavy oil production at Jackfish in 2008. When large scale projects such as Jackfish are in the early phases of production, per unit operating costs are normally higher than the per unit costs for our overall portfolio of producing properties. LOE also increased $144 million due to our 9% growth in production. Additionally, LOE increased $31 million due to hurricane damages in 2008 to certain of our U.S. Offshore facilities and transportation systems. These hurricane damages also contributed to the increase in LOE per Boe. 43 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes assessed by various government agencies on our U.S. Onshore properties. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. The following table details the changes in our taxes other than income taxes between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 ($ in millions) Production $ 132 57 % $ 306 +41 % $ 216 Ad valorem 175 +8 % 162 +19 % 135 Other 7 4 % 8 +20 % 7 Total $ 314 34 % $ 476 +33 % $ 358 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 Production taxes decreased $174 million in 2009. This decrease was largely due to lower U.S. Onshore revenues, as well as an increase in tax credits associated with certain properties in the state of Texas. Ad valorem taxes increased $13 million primarily due to higher assessed oil and gas property and equipment values. 2008 vs. 2007 Production taxes increased $90 million in 2008 primarily due to an increase in our U.S. Onshore revenues. Ad valorem taxes increased $27 million primarily due to higher assessed oil and gas property and equipment values. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization of Oil and Gas Properties (DDA) DDA of oil and gas properties is calculated by multiplying the percentage of total proved reserve volumes produced during the year, by the depletable base. The depletable base represents our capitalized investment, net of accumulated DDA and reductions of carrying value, plus future development costs related to proved undeveloped reserves. Generally, when reserve volumes are revised up or down, then the DDA rate per unit of production will change inversely. However, when the depletable base changes, then the DDA rate moves in the same direction. The per unit DDA rate is not affected by production volumes. Absolute or total DDA, as opposed to the rate per unit of production, generally moves in the same direction as production volumes. Oil and gas property DDA is calculated separately on a country by country basis. The changes in our production volumes, DDA rate per unit and DDA of oil and gas properties between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 Total production volumes (MMBoe) 233 +4 % 223 +9 % 204 DDA rate ($ per Boe) $ 7.86 40 % $ 13.20 +12 % $ 11.81 DDA expense ($ in millions) $ 1,832 38 % $ 2,948 +22 % $ 2,412 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 44 Table of Contents The following table details the changes in DDA of oil and gas properties between 2007 and 2009 due to the changes in production volumes and DDA rate presented in the table above. (In millions) 2007 DDA $ 2,412 Change due to volumes 224 Change due to rate 312 2008 DDA 2,948 Change due to volumes 130 Change due to rate (1,246 ) 2009 DDA $ 1,832 2009 vs. 2008 Oil and gas property related DDA decreased $1.2 billion due to a 40% decrease in the DDA rate. The largest contributors to the rate decrease were reductions of the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties recognized in the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008. These reductions totaled $16.3 billion and resulted from full cost ceiling limitations in the United States and Canada. In addition, the effects of changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar also contributed to the rate decrease. These factors were partially offset by the effects of costs incurred and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2009 drilling activities. Partially offsetting the impact from the lower 2009 DDA rate was our 4% production increase, which caused oil and gas property related DDA expense to increase $130 million. Our 2009 DDA rate reflects our adoption of the SECs Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting. The impact of adopting the SECs new rules at the end of 2009 had virtually no impact on our 2009 DDA rate. 2008 vs. 2007 Oil and gas property related DDA increased $312 million due to a 12% increase in the DDA rate. The largest contributor to the rate increase was inflationary pressure on both the costs incurred during 2008 as well as the estimated development costs to be spent in future periods on proved undeveloped reserves. Other factors that contributed to the rate increase were reductions in reserve estimates due to lower 2008 year end commodity prices and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2008 drilling activities. In addition to the impact from the higher 2008 rate, the 9% production increase caused oil and gas property related DDA expense to increase $224 million. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our net GA consists of three primary components. The largest of these components is the gross amount of expenses incurred for personnel costs, office expenses, professional fees and other GA items. The gross amount of these expenses is partially offset by two components. One is the amount of GA capitalized pursuant to the full cost method of accounting related to exploration and development activities. The other is the amount of GA reimbursed by working interest owners of properties for which we serve as the operator. These reimbursements are received during both the drilling and operational stages of a propertys life. The gross amount of GA incurred, less the amounts capitalized and reimbursed, is recorded as net GA in the consolidated statements of operations. Net GA includes expenses related to oil, gas and NGL exploration 45 Table of Contents and production activities, as well as marketing and midstream activities. See the following table for a summary of GA expenses by component. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 ($ in millions) Gross GA $ 1,107 +0 % $ 1,103 +24 % $ 903 Capitalized GA (332 ) 2 % (337 ) +26 % (277 ) Reimbursed GA (127 ) +5 % (121 ) +7 % (113 ) Net GA $ 648 +0 % $ 645 +26 % $ 513 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 Gross GA increased $4 million. This increase was due to approximately $60 million of higher costs for employee compensation and benefits, mostly offset by the effects of our 2009 reduced spending initiatives for certain discretionary cost categories. Employee cost increases in 2009 included an additional $57 million of severance costs. This increase was primarily due to Gulf of Mexico employees that were impacted by the integration of our Gulf of Mexico and International operations into one offshore unit in the second quarter of 2009 and other employee departures during 2009. Additionally, postretirement benefits costs increased approximately $50 million. The increases in employee costs were partially offset by a $27 million decrease due to accelerated share based compensation expense recognized in 2008 as discussed below. 2008 vs. 2007 Gross GA increased $200 million. The largest contributors to the increase were higher employee compensation and benefits costs. These cost increases, which were largely related to our growth and industry inflation during most of 2008, caused gross GA to increase $164 million. Of this increase, $65 million related to higher stock compensation. Stock compensation increased $43 million in 2008 due to a modification of the share based compensation arrangements for certain executives. The modified compensation arrangements provide that executives who meet certain years of service and age criteria can retire and continue vesting in outstanding share based grants. As a condition to receiving the benefits of these modifications, the executives must agree not to use or disclose Devons confidential information and not to solicit Devons employees and customers. The executives are required to agree to these conditions at retirement and again in each subsequent year until all grants have vested. Although this modification does not accelerate the vesting of the executives grants, it does accelerate the expense recognition as executives approach the years of service and age criteria. When the modification was made in 2008, certain executives had already met the years of service and age criteria. As a result, we recognized $27 million of share based compensation expense in the second quarter of 2008 related to this modification. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recognized an additional $16 million of stock compensation for grants made to these executives. The additional expenses would have been recognized in future reporting periods if the modification had not been made and the executives continued their employment at Devon. The higher employee compensation and benefits costs, exclusive of the accelerated stock compensation expense, were also the primary factors that caused the $60 million increase in capitalized GA in 2008. Restructuring Costs In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recognized $153 million of estimated employee severance costs associated with the planned divestitures of our offshore assets that was announced in November 2009. This amount was based on our estimates of the number of employees that will ultimately be impacted by the divestitures, and includes $63 million related to accelerated vesting of share based grants. Of the $153 million 46 Table of Contents total, $105 million relates to our U.S. Offshore operations and the remainder relates to our International discontinued operations. As of the date of this report, only one of the properties we intend to sell had actually been sold. Furthermore, the vast majority of employees will not be impacted by the divestitures until the properties are sold. Therefore, our estimate of employee severance costs recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009 was based upon certain key estimates that could change as properties are sold. These estimates include the number of impacted employees, the number of employees offered comparable positions with the buyers and the date of separation for impacted employees. If our estimate of the number of impacted employees were to increase 10%, our estimate of employee severance costs would increase approximately $10 million. If our estimate of the number of employees offered comparable positions with the buyers were to decrease by 10%, our estimate of employee severance costs would increase approximately $15 million. Additionally, if the date of separation were to occur one month after our current estimates, our estimate of employee severance costs would increase approximately $2 million. Interest Expense The following table includes the components of interest expense between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Interest based on debt outstanding $ 437 $ 426 $ 508 Capitalized interest (94 ) (111 ) (102 ) Other 6 14 24 Total interest expense $ 349 $ 329 $ 430 2009 vs. 2008 Interest based on debt outstanding increased $11 million from 2008 to 2009. This increase was primarily due to interest paid on the $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes that we issued in January 2009. This was partially offset by lower interest resulting from the retirement of our exchangeable debentures during the third quarter of 2008 and lower interest rates on our floating rate commercial paper borrowings. Capitalized interest decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to the sales of our West African exploration and development properties in 2008 and the completion of the Access pipeline transportation system in Canada in the second quarter of 2008. 2008 vs. 2007 Interest based on debt outstanding decreased $82 million from 2007 to 2008. This decrease was largely due to lower average outstanding amounts for commercial paper and credit facility borrowings in 2008 than in 2007. The decrease in borrowings resulted largely from the use of proceeds from our West African divestiture program and cash flow from operations to repay all commercial paper and credit facility borrowings in the second quarter of 2008. Additionally, we retired debentures with a face value of $652 million during 2008, primarily during the third quarter. Capitalized interest increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to higher cumulative costs related to large scale development projects in the Gulf of Mexico, partially offset by lower capitalized interest resulting from the completion of the Access pipeline in the second quarter of 2008. 47 Table of Contents Change in Fair Value of Other Financial Instruments The details of the changes in fair value of other financial instruments between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) (Gains) losses from: Interest rate swaps fair value changes $ (66 ) $ (104 ) $ (1 ) Interest rate swaps settlements (40 ) (1 ) Chevron common stock 363 (281 ) Option embedded in exchangeable debentures (109 ) 248 Total $ (106 ) $ 149 $ (34 ) Interest Rate Swaps We recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. In 2009 and 2008, we recorded unrealized gains of $66 million and $104 million, respectively, as a result of changes in interest rates. Also, during 2009 and 2008, we received cash settlements totaling $40 million and $1 million, respectively, from counterparties to settle our interest rate swaps. There were no cash settlements in 2007. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by a third party. Based on the notional amount subject to the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our 2009 unrealized gain for our interest rate swaps by approximately $46 million. Similar to our commodity derivative contracts, counterparty credit risk is also a component of interest rate derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with several counterparties. Our interest rate derivative contracts are held with seven separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. The credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade as of December 31, 2009. Chevron Common Stock and Related Embedded Option Until October 31, 2008, we owned 14.2 million shares of Chevron common stock and recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of this investment. On October 31, 2008, we exchanged these shares of Chevron common stock for Chevrons interest in the Drunkards Wash properties located in east central Utah and $280 million in cash. In accordance with the terms of the exchange, the fair value of our investment in the Chevron shares was estimated to be $67.71 per share on the exchange date. Prior to the exchange of these shares, we calculated the fair value of our investment in Chevron common stock using Chevrons published market price. We also recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of the conversion option embedded in the debentures exchangeable into shares of Chevron common stock. The embedded option was not actively traded in an established market. Therefore, we estimated its fair value using quotes obtained from a broker for trades occurring near the valuation date. 48 Table of Contents The loss during 2008 on our investment in Chevron common stock was directly attributable to a $25.62 per share decrease in the estimated fair value while we owned Chevrons common stock during the year. The gain on the embedded option during 2008 was directly attributable to the change in fair value of the Chevron common stock from January 1, 2008 to the maturity date of August 15, 2008. The gain on our investment in Chevron common stock and loss on the embedded option during 2007 were directly attributable to a $19.80 increase in the price per share of Chevrons common stock during 2007. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties During 2009 and 2008, we reduced the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties due to full cost ceiling limitations. A summary of these reductions and additional discussion is provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Net of Net of Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) United States $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 6,538 $ 4,168 Canada 3,353 2,488 Total $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 9,891 $ 6,656 The 2009 reduction was recognized in the first quarter and the 2008 reductions were recognized in the fourth quarter. The reductions resulted from significant decreases in each countrys full cost ceiling compared to the immediately preceding quarter. The lower United States ceiling value in the first quarter of 2009 largely resulted from the effects of declining natural gas prices subsequent to December 31, 2008. The lower ceiling values in the fourth quarter of 2008 largely resulted from the effects of sharp declines in oil, gas and NGL prices compared to September 30, 2008. To demonstrate these declines, the March 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008 weighted average wellhead prices are presented in the following table. March 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 September 30, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Country (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) United States $ 47.30 $ 2.67 $ 17.04 $ 42.21 $ 4.68 $ 16.16 $ 97.62 $ 5.28 $ 38.00 Canada N/A N/A N/A $ 23.23 $ 5.31 $ 20.89 $ 59.72 $ 6.00 $ 62.78 N/A Not applicable. The March 31, 2009 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $49.66 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $3.63 per MMBtu for gas. The December 31, 2008 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $44.60 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $5.71 per MMBtu for gas. The September 30, 2008, wellhead prices in the table compare to the NYMEX cash price of $100.64 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $7.12 per MMBtu for gas. 49 Table of Contents Other Income The following table includes the components of other income between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Interest and dividend income $ 8 $ 54 $ 48 Reduction of deep water royalties 84 Hurricane insurance proceeds 162 Other (24 ) 1 3 Total $ 68 $ 217 $ 51 Interest and dividend income decreased from 2008 to 2009 due to a decrease in dividends received on our previously owned investment in Chevron common stock and a decrease in interest received on cash equivalents due to lower rates and balances. Interest and dividend income increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to higher cash balances partially offset by lower interest rates and a decrease in dividends received on our investment in Chevron common stock. In 1995, the United States Congress passed the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act. The intent of this legislation was to encourage deep water exploration in the Gulf of Mexico by providing relief from the obligation to pay royalties on certain federal leases. Deep water leases issued in certain years by the Minerals Management Service (the MMS) have contained price thresholds, such that if the market prices for oil or gas exceeded the thresholds for a given year, royalty relief would not be granted for that year. In October 2007, a federal district court ruled in favor of a plaintiff who had challenged the legality of including price thresholds in deep water leases. Additionally, in January 2009 a federal appellate court upheld this district court ruling. This judgment was later appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which, in October 2009, declined to review the appellate courts ruling. The Supreme Courts decision ended the MMSs judicial course to enforce the price thresholds. Prior to September 30, 2009, we had $84 million accrued for potential royalties on various deep water leases. Based upon the Supreme Courts decision, we reduced to zero the $84 million loss contingency accrual in the third quarter of 2009. In 2008, we recognized $162 million of excess insurance recoveries for damages suffered in 2005 related to hurricanes that struck the Gulf of Mexico. The excess recoveries resulted from business interruption claims on policies that were in effect when the 2005 hurricanes occurred. 50 Table of Contents Income Taxes The following table presents our total income tax (benefit) expense related to continuing operations and a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate to the U.S. statutory income tax rate for each of the past three years. The primary factors causing our effective rates to vary from 2007 to 2009, and differ from the U.S. statutory rate, are discussed below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Total income tax (benefit) expense (In millions) $ (1,773 ) $ (1,121 ) $ 842 U.S. statutory income tax rate (35 )% (35 )% 35 % State income taxes (2 )% (1 )% 1 % Taxation on Canadian operations (1 )% 5 % Repatriations and tax policy election changes 7 % Canadian statutory rate reduction (8 )% Other (1 )% (3 )% (3 )% Effective income tax (benefit) expense rate (39 )% (27 )% 25 % For 2008, our effective income tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory income tax rate largely due to two related factors. First, during 2008, we repatriated $2.6 billion from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Second, we made certain tax policy election changes in the second quarter of 2008 to minimize the taxes we otherwise would pay for the cash repatriations, as well as the taxable gains associated with the sales of assets in West Africa. As a result of the repatriation and tax policy election changes, we recognized additional tax expense of $312 million during 2008. Of the $312 million, $295 million was recognized as current income tax expense, and $17 million was recognized as deferred tax expense. Excluding the $312 million of additional tax expense, our effective income tax benefit rate would have been 34% for 2008. In 2007, deferred income taxes were reduced $261 million due to a Canadian statutory rate reduction that was enacted in that year. Earnings From Discontinued Operations For all years presented in the following tables, our discontinued operations include amounts related to our assets in Azerbaijan, Brazil, China and other minor International properties that we are in the process of divesting. Additionally, during 2007 and 2008, our discontinued operations included amounts related to our assets in Egypt and West Africa, including Equatorial Guinea, Cote dIvoire, Gabon and other countries in the 51 Table of Contents region until they were sold. Following are the components of earnings from discontinued operations between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Total production (MMBoe) 16 18 32 Combined price without hedges (per Boe) $ 59.25 $ 92.72 $ 68.11 (In millions) Operating revenues $ 945 $ 1,702 $ 2,168 Expenses and other income, net: Operating expenses 484 769 597 Restructuring costs 48 Reduction of carrying value of oil and gas properties 108 494 68 Gain on sale of oil and gas properties (17 ) (819 ) (90 ) Total expenses and other income, net 623 444 575 Earnings before income taxes 322 1,258 1,593 Income tax expense 48 367 472 Earnings from discontinued operations $ 274 $ 891 $ 1,121 Our African sales generated total proceeds of $3.0 billion. The following table presents the gains on the African divestiture transactions by year. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net of Net of Net of Gross Taxes Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) Egypt $ $ $ $ $ 90 $ 90 Equatorial Guinea 619 544 Gabon 117 122 Cote dIvoire 17 17 83 95 Other 8 Total $ 17 $ 17 $ 819 $ 769 $ 90 $ 90 2009 vs. 2008 Earnings from discontinued operations decreased $617 million in 2009. Our discontinued earnings were impacted by several factors. First, operating revenues declined largely due to a 36% decrease in the price realized on our production, which was driven by a decline in crude oil index prices. Second, both operating revenues and expenses declined due to divestitures that closed in 2008. Discontinued earnings also decreased due to $48 million of restructuring costs that relate to our planned divestitures and were recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009. These costs consist of employee severance costs. Earnings also decreased $752 million in 2009 due to larger gains recognized on West African asset divestitures in 2008. Partially offsetting these decreased earnings in 2009 was the larger reduction of carrying value recognized in 2008 compared to 2009. The reductions largely consisted of full cost ceiling limitations related to our assets in Brazil that were caused by a decline in oil prices. 2008 vs. 2007 Earnings from discontinued operations decreased $230 million in 2008. Our earnings were impacted by several factors. First, operating revenues and expenses, including the related production volumes, decreased largely due to the timing of our 2008 and 2007 divestitures, partially offset by the effects of first production in Brazil. Discontinued earnings also decreased due to the net effect of reductions in carrying value recognized in 2008 and 2007, which largely related to our assets in Brazil. Discontinued earnings increased $679 million in 2008 due to the larger African divestiture gains in 2008. 52 Table of Contents Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity The following discussion of capital resources, uses and liquidity should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Sources and Uses of Cash The following table presents the sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents from 2007 to 2009. The table presents capital expenditures on a cash basis. Therefore, these amounts differ from capital expenditure amounts that include accruals and are referred to elsewhere in this document. Additional discussion of these items follows the table. 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Sources of cash and cash equivalents: Operating cash flow continuing operations $ 4,232 $ 8,448 $ 5,308 Sales of property and equipment 34 117 76 Net credit facility borrowings 1,450 Net commercial paper borrowings 1,431 1 Proceeds from debt issuance, net of commercial paper repayments 182 Net decrease in investments 7 250 202 Stock option exercises 42 116 91 Proceeds from exchange of Chevron stock 280 Cash distributed from discontinued operations 1,898 Other 8 59 43 Total sources of cash and cash equivalents 5,936 11,169 7,170 Uses of cash and cash equivalents: Capital expenditures (4,879 ) (8,843 ) (5,709 ) Net credit facility repayments (1,450 ) Net commercial paper repayments (804 ) Debt repayments (178 ) (1,031 ) (567 ) Repurchases of common stock (665 ) (326 ) Redemption of preferred stock (150 ) Dividends (284 ) (289 ) (259 ) Other (17 ) Total uses of cash and cash equivalents (5,358 ) (12,428 ) (7,665 ) Increase (decrease) from continuing operations 578 (1,259 ) (495 ) Increase from discontinued operations, net of distributions to continuing operations 6 386 1,061 Effect of foreign exchange rates 43 (116 ) 51 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 627 $ (989 ) $ 617 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,011 $ 384 $ 1,373 Short term investments at end of year $ $ $ 372 53 Table of Contents Operating Cash Flow Continuing Operations Net cash provided by operating activities (operating cash flow) continued to be our primary source of capital and liquidity in 2009. Changes in operating cash flow from our continuing operations are largely due to the same factors that affect our net earnings, with the exception of those earnings changes due to such noncash expenses as DDA, financial instrument fair value changes, property impairments and deferred income taxes. As a result, our operating cash flow decreased 50% during 2009 primarily due to the significant decrease in oil, gas and NGL sales, net of commodity hedge settlements, as discussed in the Results of Operations section of this report. During 2009, our operating cash flow funded approximately 87% of our cash payments for capital expenditures. Commercial paper borrowings were used to fund the remainder of our cash based capital expenditures. During 2008 and 2007 our capital expenditures were primarily funded by our operating cash flow and pre existing cash balances. Other Sources of Cash Continuing and Discontinued Operations As needed, we supplement our operating cash flow with cash on hand and access to our available credit under our credit facilities and commercial paper program. We may also issue long term debt to supplement our operating cash flow while maintaining adequate liquidity under our credit facilities. Additionally, we sometimes acquire short term investments to maximize our income on available cash balances. As needed, we may reduce our investment balances to further supplement our operating cash flow. In January 2009, we issued $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2014 and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2019. The net proceeds received of $1.187 billion, after discounts and issuance costs, were used primarily to repay Devons $1.005 billion of outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to the $1.0 billion commercial paper repayment in January 2009, we utilized additional commercial paper borrowings of $1.4 billion to fund capital expenditure and dividend payments in excess of our operating cash flow during 2009. During 2008, we reduced our short term investment balances by $250 million. We also received $280 million from the exchange of our investment in Chevron common stock, $117 million from the sale of non oil and gas property and equipment and $116 million from stock option exercises. Another significant source of cash was our African divestiture program. In 2008, we received $2.6 billion in proceeds ($1.9 billion net of income taxes and purchase price adjustments) from sales of assets located in Equatorial Guinea and other West African countries. Also, in conjunction with these asset sales, we repatriated an additional $2.6 billion of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. We used these combined sources of cash in 2008 to fund debt repayments, common stock repurchases, redemptions of preferred stock and dividends on common and preferred stock. During 2007, we borrowed $1.5 billion under our unsecured revolving line of credit and reduced our short term investment balances by $202 million. We also received $341 million of proceeds from the sale of our Egyptian operations. These sources of cash were used primarily to fund net commercial paper repayments, long term debt repayments, common stock repurchases and dividends on common and preferred stock. 54 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures Following are the components of our capital expenditures for the years ended 2009, 2008 and 2007. The amounts in the table below reflect cash payments for capital expenditures, including cash paid for capital expenditures incurred. Capital expenditures actually incurred during 2009, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $4.7 billion, $10.0 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively. 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) U.S. Onshore $ 2,413 $ 5,606 $ 3,280 Canada 1,064 1,459 1,232 North American Onshore 3,477 7,065 4,512 U.S. Offshore 845 1,157 687 Total exploration and development 4,322 8,222 5,199 Midstream 323 451 370 Other 234 170 141 Total continuing operations $ 4,879 $ 8,843 $ 5,710 Our capital expenditures consist of amounts related to our oil and gas exploration and development operations, our midstream operations and other corporate activities. The vast majority of our capital expenditures are for the acquisition, drilling or development of oil and gas properties, which totaled $4.3 billion, $8.2 billion and $5.2 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in capital expenditures from 2008 to 2009 was due to decreased drilling activities in most of our operating areas in response to lower commodity prices in 2009 compared to recent years. The 2008 capital expenditures include $2.6 billion related to acquisitions of properties in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Canada. Excluding the effect of the 2008 acquisitions, the increase in capital expenditures from 2007 to 2008 was due to increased drilling activities in the Barnett Shale, Gulf of Mexico, Carthage, Groesbeck and Washakie areas of the United States and the Lloydminster and Jackfish projects in Canada. Expenditures in the first half of 2008 also increased due to inflationary pressure driven by increased competition for field services. Our capital expenditures for our midstream operations are primarily for the construction and expansion of natural gas processing plants, natural gas pipeline systems and oil pipelines. These midstream facilities exist primarily to support our oil and gas development operations. The majority of our midstream expenditures from 2007 to 2009 were related to development activities in the Barnett Shale, the Arkoma Woodford Shale in southeastern Oklahoma, the Cana Woodford Shale in western Oklahoma and Jackfish in Canada. Net Repayments of Debt Debt repayments in 2009 include the retirement of $177 million of 10.125% notes upon maturity in the fourth quarter. During 2008, we repaid $1.5 billion in outstanding credit facility borrowings primarily with proceeds received from the sales of assets under our African divestiture program. Also during 2008, virtually all holders of exchangeable debentures exercised their option to exchange their debentures for shares of Chevron common stock owned by us. The debentures matured on August 15, 2008. In lieu of delivering our shares of Chevron common stock, we exercised our option to pay the exchanging debenture holders cash totaling $1.0 billion. This amount included the retirement of debentures with a book value of $652 million and a $379 million payment of the related embedded derivative option. During 2007, we repaid the $400 million 4.375% notes, which matured on October 1, 2007. Also during 2007, certain holders of exchangeable debentures exercised their option to exchange their debentures for shares of Chevron common stock prior to the debentures August 15, 2008 maturity date. In lieu of delivering shares of Chevron common stock, we exercised our option to pay the exchanging debenture holders an amount of cash equal to the market value of Chevron common stock. We paid $167 million in cash to exchangeable 55 Table of Contents debenture holders who exercised their exchange rights. This amount included the retirement of debentures with a book value of $105 million and a $62 million payment of the related embedded derivative option. Repurchases of Common Stock During 2008 and 2007, we repurchased 10.6 million shares at a total cost of $1.0 billion, or an average of $93.76 per share, under approved repurchase programs. No shares were repurchased in 2009. The following table summarizes our repurchases under approved plans during 2008 and 2007 (amounts and shares in millions). Both programs expired on December 31, 2009. 2008 2007 Repurchase Program Amount Shares Per Share Amount Shares Per Share Annual program $ 178 2.0 $ 87.83 $ $ 2007 program 487 4.5 $ 109.25 326 4.1 $ 79.80 Totals $ 665 6.5 $ 102.56 $ 326 4.1 $ 79.80 Redemption of Preferred Stock On June 20, 2008, we redeemed all 1.5 million outstanding shares of our 6.49% Series A cumulative preferred stock. Each share of preferred stock was redeemed for cash at a redemption price of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends up to the redemption date. Dividends Our common stock dividends were $284 million (or a quarterly rate of $0.16 per share) in both 2009 and 2008, and $249 million (or a quarterly rate of $0.14) in 2007. Common dividends increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to the higher quarterly dividend rates. We also paid $5 million of preferred stock dividends in 2008 and $10 million of preferred stock dividends in 2007. The decrease in the preferred dividends in 2008 was due to the redemption of our preferred stock in the second quarter of 2008. Liquidity Historically, our primary source of capital and liquidity has been operating cash flow. Additionally, we maintain revolving lines of credit and a commercial paper program, which can be accessed as needed to supplement operating cash flow. Other available sources of capital and liquidity include the issuance of equity securities, as well as our automatically effective registration statement on Form S 3ASR filed with the SEC. This registration statement can be used to offer short term and long term debt securities. In 2010, another major source of liquidity will be proceeds from the sales of our offshore operations, which we estimate will range from $4.5 billion to $7.5 billion after taxes. We expect the combination of these sources of capital will be adequate to fund future capital expenditures, debt repayments and other contractual commitments as discussed later in this section. Operating Cash Flow Our operating cash flow is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is pricing of the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. Due to sharp declines in commodity prices, our operating cash flow decreased approximately 50% to $4.7 billion in 2009 as compared to 2008. In spite of the recent commodity price declines, we expect operating cash flow will continue to be a primary source of liquidity, and we will need to manage our capital expenditures and other cash uses accordingly. However, as a result of depressed commodity prices, debt borrowings have been a significant source of liquidity during 2009. During 2009, our net borrowings of long term debt and commercial paper totaled $1.6 billion. We anticipate utilizing commercial paper borrowings as needed to supplement operating cash flow in 2010. As the offshore divestiture transactions close, we anticipate using a portion of the proceeds to repay our commercial paper borrowings. 56 Table of Contents Commodity Prices Prices for oil, gas and NGLs are determined primarily by prevailing market conditions. Regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other substantially variable factors influence market conditions for these products. These factors, which are difficult to predict, create volatility in oil, gas and NGL prices and are beyond our control. We expect this volatility to continue throughout 2010. To mitigate some of the risk inherent in prices, we have utilized various price swap, fixed price physical delivery and price collar contracts to set minimum and maximum prices on our 2010 production. As of February 15, 2010 approximately 65% of our estimated 2010 oil production is subject to price collars and approximately 54% of our estimated 2010 gas production is subject to price collars, price swaps and fixed price physicals. We also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2010 gas production. Commodity prices can also affect our operating cash flow through an indirect effect on operating expenses. Significant commodity price increases, as experienced in recent years, can lead to an increase in drilling and development activities. As a result, the demand and cost for people, services, equipment and materials may also increase, causing a negative impact on our cash flow. However, the inverse is also true during periods of depressed commodity prices such as what we are currently experiencing. Interest Rates Our operating cash flow can also be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. As of February 15, 2010, we had total debt of $7.1 billion with an overall weighted average borrowing rate of 5.93%. To manage our exposure to interest rate volatility, we have interest rate swap instruments with a total notional amount of $1.85 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect, based upon us paying a fixed rate and receiving a floating rate. Including the effects of these swaps, the weighted average interest rate related to our fixed rate debt was 5.36% as of February 15, 2010. Credit Losses Our operating cash flow is also exposed to credit risk in a variety of ways. We are exposed to the credit risk of the customers who purchase our oil, gas and NGL production. We are also exposed to credit risk related to the collection of receivables from our joint interest partners for their proportionate share of expenditures made on projects we operate. We are also exposed to the credit risk of counterparties to our derivative financial contracts as discussed previously in this report. The recent deterioration of the global financial and capital markets, combined with the drop in commodity prices, has increased our credit risk exposure. However, we utilize a variety of mechanisms to limit our exposure to the credit risks of our customers, partners and counterparties. Such mechanisms include, under certain conditions, posting of letters of credit, prepayment requirements and collateral posting requirements. Credit Availability We have two revolving lines of credit and a commercial paper program which we can access to provide liquidity. We have a $2.65 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving line of credit (the Senior Credit Facility). The maturity date for $2.15 billion of the Senior Credit Facility is April 7, 2013. The maturity date for the remaining $0.5 billion is April 7, 2012. All amounts outstanding will be due and payable on the respective maturity dates unless the maturity is extended. Prior to each April 7 anniversary date, we have the option to extend the maturity of the Senior Credit Facility for one year, subject to the approval of the lenders. The Senior Credit Facility includes a revolving Canadian subfacility in a maximum amount of U.S. $500 million. Amounts borrowed under the Senior Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods of up to twelve months. Such rates are generally less than the prime rate. However, we may elect to borrow at the prime rate. As February 15, 2010, there were no borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility. We also have a $700 million 364 day, syndicated, unsecured revolving senior credit facility (the Short Term Facility) that matures on November 2, 2010. On the maturity date, all amounts outstanding will be due 57 Table of Contents and payable at that time. Amounts borrowed under the Short Term Facility bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods of up to 12 months. Such rates are generally based on LIBOR or the prime rate. As of February 15, 2010, there were no borrowings under the Short Term Facility. We also have access to short term credit under our commercial paper program. Total borrowings under the commercial paper program may not exceed $2.85 billion. Also, any borrowings under the commercial paper program reduce available capacity under the Senior Credit Facility or the Short Term Facility on a dollar for dollar basis. Commercial paper debt generally has a maturity of between one and 90 days, although it can have a maturity of up to 365 days, and bears interest at rates agreed to at the time of the borrowing. The interest rate is based on a standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. As of February 15, 2010, we had $1.3 billion of commercial paper debt outstanding at an average rate of 0.25%. The Senior Credit Facility and Short Term Facility contain only one material financial covenant. This covenant requires our ratio of total funded debt to total capitalization to be less than 65%. The credit agreement contains definitions of total funded debt and total capitalization that include adjustments to the respective amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. Also, total capitalization is adjusted to add back noncash financial writedowns such as full cost ceiling impairments or goodwill impairments. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with this covenant. Our debt to capitalization ratio at December 31, 2009, as calculated pursuant to the terms of the agreement, was 20.5%. Our access to funds from the Senior Credit Facility and Short Term Facility is not restricted under any material adverse effect clauses. It is not uncommon for credit agreements to include such clauses. These clauses can remove the obligation of the banks to fund the credit line if any condition or event would reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on the borrowers financial condition, operations, properties or business considered as a whole, the borrowers ability to make timely debt payments, or the enforceability of material terms of the credit agreement. While our credit facilities include covenants that require us to report a condition or event having a material adverse effect, the obligation of the banks to fund the credit facilities is not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse effect. The following schedule summarizes the capacity of our credit facilities by maturity date, as well as our available capacity as of February 15, 2010 (in millions). Senior Credit Facility: April 7, 2012 maturity $ 500 April 7, 2013 maturity 2,150 Total Senior Credit Facility 2,650 Short Term Facility November 2, 2010 maturity 700 Total credit facilities 3,350 Less: Outstanding credit facility borrowings Outstanding commercial paper borrowings 1,257 Outstanding letters of credit 88 Total available capacity $ 2,005 Debt Ratings We receive debt ratings from the major ratings agencies in the United States. In determining our debt ratings, the agencies consider a number of items including, but not limited to, debt levels, planned asset sales, near term and long term production growth opportunities and capital allocation challenges. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix, and commodity pricing levels are also considered by the rating agencies. Our current debt ratings are BBB+ with a stable outlook by both Fitch and Standard Poors, and Baa1 with a stable outlook by Moodys. 58 Table of Contents There are no rating triggers in any of our contractual obligations that would accelerate scheduled maturities should our debt rating fall below a specified level. Our cost of borrowing under our Senior Credit Facility is predicated on our corporate debt rating. Therefore, even though a ratings downgrade would not accelerate scheduled maturities, it would adversely impact the interest rate on any borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. Under the terms of the Senior Credit Facility, a one notch downgrade would increase the fully drawn borrowing costs from LIBOR plus 35 basis points to a new rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points. A ratings downgrade could also adversely impact our ability to economically access debt markets in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we were not aware of any potential ratings downgrades being contemplated by the rating agencies. Capital Expenditures Our 2010 capital expenditures are expected to range from $6.0 billion to $6.8 billion, including amounts related to our discontinued operations. To a certain degree, the ultimate timing of these capital expenditures is within our control. Therefore, if oil and gas prices fluctuate from current estimates, we could choose to defer a portion of these planned 2010 capital expenditures until later periods, or accelerate capital expenditures planned for periods beyond 2010 to achieve the desired balance between sources and uses of liquidity. The amount and timing of the planned offshore asset divestitures in 2010 could also result in acceleration of capital spending on our North American Onshore opportunities. Based upon current price expectations for 2010 and the commodity hedging contracts we have in place, we anticipate having adequate capital resources to fund our 2010 capital expenditures. Common Stock Repurchase Programs All of our common stock repurchase programs expired on December 31, 2009. None of our programs were extended to 2010. Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009, is provided in the following table. Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) North American Onshore: Debt(1) $ 7,267 $ 1,432 $ 2,110 $ 500 $ 3,225 Interest expense(2) 4,998 406 666 508 3,418 Drilling and facility obligations(3) 1,136 659 395 81 1 Firm transportation agreements(4) 1,939 298 508 419 714 Asset retirement obligations(5) 1,068 44 115 150 759 Lease obligations(6) 347 57 94 49 147 Other(7) 518 129 128 57 204 Total North American Onshore 17,273 3,025 4,016 1,764 8,468 Offshore: Drilling and facility obligations(3) 2,113 955 775 383 Asset retirement obligations(5) 554 51 141 61 301 Lease obligations(6) 602 121 182 176 123 Total Offshore 3,269 1,127 1,098 620 424 Grand Total $ 20,542 $ 4,152 $ 5,114 $ 2,384 $ 8,892 59 Table of Contents (1) Debt amounts represent scheduled maturities of our debt obligations at December 31, 2009, excluding $12 million of net premiums included in the carrying value of debt. (2) Interest expense related to our fixed rate debt represents the scheduled cash payments. Interest related to our variable rate commercial paper borrowings was estimated based upon expected future interest rates as of December 31, 2009. (3) Drilling and facility obligations represent contractual agreements with third party service providers to procure drilling rigs and other related services for developmental and exploratory drilling and facilities construction. Included in the $2.1 billion of offshore obligations is $1.4 billion that relates to long term contracts for three deepwater drilling rigs and certain other contracts for offshore drilling and facility obligations in which drilling or facilities construction has not commenced. The $1.4 billion represents the gross commitment under these contracts. Our ultimate payment for these commitments will be reduced by any amounts billed to our working interest partners until we sell the associated offshore properties. Payments for these commitments, net of amounts billed to partners, will be capitalized as a component of oil and gas properties. Additionally, our commitment under these contracts may be further reduced if the buyers of our offshore assets assume all or a portion of the obligations. If the buyers do not assume these obligations, we will attempt to sublease the rigs to reduce our commitment. However, if the buyers do not assume the obligations and we are not able to sublease the rigs, we would be contractually committed to the amounts related to the remaining lease periods. (4) Firm transportation agreements represent ship or pay arrangements whereby we have committed to ship certain volumes of oil, gas and NGLs for a fixed transportation fee. We have entered into these agreements to aid the movement of our production to market. We expect to have sufficient production to utilize the majority of these transportation services. (5) Asset retirement obligations represent estimated discounted costs for future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation costs. These obligations are recorded as liabilities on our December 31, 2009 balance sheet. (6) Lease obligations consist of operating leases for office space and equipment, an offshore platform spar and FPSOs. Office and equipment leases represent non cancelable leases for office space and equipment used in our daily operations. We have an offshore platform spar that is being used in the development of the Nansen field in the Gulf of Mexico. This spar is subject to a 20 year lease and contains various options whereby we may purchase the lessors interests in the spars. We have guaranteed that the spar will have a residual value at the end of the term equal to at least 10% of the fair value of the spar at the inception of the lease. The total guaranteed value is $14 million in 2022. However, such amount may be reduced under the terms of the lease agreements. In 2005, we sold our interests in the Boomvang field in the Gulf of Mexico, which has a spar lease with terms similar to those of the Nansen lease. As a result of the sale, we are subleasing the Boomvang spar. The table above does not include any amounts related to the Boomvang spar lease. However, if the sublessee were to default on its obligation, we would continue to be obligated to pay the periodic lease payments and any guaranteed value required at the end of the term. We also lease three FPSOs that are related to the Panyu project offshore China, the Polvo project offshore Brazil and the Cascade project offshore the Gulf of Mexico. The Panyu FPSO lease term expires in 2018. The Polvo FPSO lease term expires in 2014. The Cascade FPSO lease term expires in 2015. We expect the eventual buyers of these offshore assets will assume the FPSO leases. However, the amounts in the table reflect our full commitments under the leases. (7) These amounts include $272 million related to uncertain tax positions. Expected pension funding obligations have not been included in this table, but are presented and discussed in the section immediately below. Pension Funding and Estimates Funded Status As compared to the projected benefit obligation, our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $448 million and $501 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 60 Table of Contents respectively. A detailed reconciliation of the 2009 changes to our underfunded status is included in Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Of the $448 million underfunded status at the end of 2009, $215 million is attributable to various nonqualified defined benefit plans that have no plan assets. However, we have established certain trusts to fund the benefit obligations of such nonqualified plans. As of December 31, 2009, these trusts had investments with a fair value of $39 million. The value of these trusts is included in noncurrent other assets in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. As compared to the accumulated benefit obligation, our qualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $164 million at December 31, 2009. The accumulated benefit obligation differs from the projected benefit obligation in that the former includes no assumption about future compensation levels. Our funding policy regarding the qualified defined benefit plans is to contribute the amounts necessary for the plans assets to approximately equal the present value of benefits earned by the participants, as calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Protection Act. While we did have investment gains in 2009, the investment losses experienced during 2008 significantly reduced the value of our plans assets. We estimate we will contribute approximately $25 million to our qualified pension plans during 2010. However, actual contributions may be different than this amount. Our funding policy regarding the nonqualified defined benefit plans is to supplement as needed the amounts accumulated in the related trusts with available cash and cash equivalents. Pension Estimate Assumptions Our pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods and is impacted by funding decisions or requirements. We recognized expense for our defined benefit pension plans of $119 million, $61 million and $41 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We estimate that our pension expense will approximate $85 million in 2010. Should our actual 2010 contributions to qualified and nonqualified plans vary significantly from our current estimate of $34 million, our actual 2010 pension expense could vary from this estimate. The calculation of pension expense and pension liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and actual experience can differ from the assumptions. We believe that the two most critical assumptions affecting pension expense and liabilities are the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. We assumed that our plan assets would generate a long term weighted average rate of return of 7.18% and 8.40% at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We developed these expected long term rate of return assumptions by evaluating input from external consultants and economists as well as long term inflation assumptions. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets is based on a target allocation of investment types in such assets. At December 31, 2009, the target allocations for plan assets were 47.5% for equity securities, 40% for fixed income securities and 12.5% for other investment types. Equity securities consist of investments in large capitalization and small capitalization companies, both domestic and international. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of investment grade companies from diverse industries, United States Treasury obligations and asset backed securities. Other investment types include short term investment funds and a hedge fund of funds. We expect our long term asset allocation on average to approximate the targeted allocation. We regularly review our actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance the investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on plan assets decreases. A decrease in our long term rate of return assumption of 100 basis points would increase the expected 2010 pension expense by $5 million. We discounted our future pension obligations using a weighted average rate of 6.00% at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The discount rate is determined at the end of each year based on the rate at which obligations could be effectively settled, considering the expected timing of future cash flows related to the plans. This rate is based on high quality bond yields, after allowing for call and default risk. We consider high quality corporate bond yield indices, such as Moodys Aa, when selecting the discount rate. 61 Table of Contents The pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 25 basis points would increase our pension liability at December 31, 2009, by $32 million, and increase estimated 2010 pension expense by $4 million. At December 31, 2009, we had net actuarial losses of $334 million, which will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years. These losses are primarily due to investment losses on plan assets in 2008, reductions in the discount rate since 2001 and increases in participant wages. We estimate that approximately $27 million and $23 million of the unrecognized actuarial losses will be included in pension expense in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The $27 million estimated to be recognized in 2010 is a component of the total estimated 2010 pension expense of $85 million referred to earlier in this section. Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our defined benefit pension plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. Contingencies and Legal Matters For a detailed discussion of contingencies and legal matters, see Note 10 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from these estimates, and changes in these estimates are recorded when known. The critical accounting policies used by management in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. Our critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates related to those policies are described below. We have reviewed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Full Cost Ceiling Calculations Policy Description We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. The full cost method subjects companies to quarterly calculations of a ceiling, or limitation on the amount of properties that can be capitalized on the balance sheet. The ceiling limitation is the discounted estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, excluding future cash outflows associated with settling asset retirement obligations included in the net book value of oil and gas properties, plus the cost of properties not subject to amortization. If our net book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes, is in excess of the calculated ceiling, the excess must be written off as an expense. The ceiling limitation is imposed separately for each country in which we have oil and gas properties. An expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher oil and gas prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. Judgments and Assumptions The discounted present value of future net revenues for our proved oil, gas and NGL reserves is a major component of the ceiling calculation, and represents the component that requires the most subjective judgments. Estimates of reserves are forecasts based on engineering data, projected future rates of production and the timing of future expenditures. The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves requires substantial judgment, resulting in imprecise determinations, particularly for new discoveries. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities based on the same data. Certain of our reserve estimates 62 Table of Contents are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants, while other reserve estimates are prepared by our engineers. See Note 22 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of the amount of our reserves that are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants. The passage of time provides more qualitative information regarding estimates of reserves, and revisions are made to prior estimates to reflect updated information. In the past five years, annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates, which have been both increases and decreases in individual years, have averaged less than 2% of the previous years estimate. However, there can be no assurance that more significant revisions will not be necessary in the future. If future significant revisions are necessary that reduce previously estimated reserve quantities, it could result in a full cost property writedown. In addition to the impact of the estimates of proved reserves on the calculation of the ceiling, estimates of proved reserves are also a significant component of the calculation of DDA. While the quantities of proved reserves require substantial judgment, the associated prices of oil, gas and NGL reserves, and the applicable discount rate, that are used to calculate the discounted present value of the reserves do not require judgment. The ceiling calculation dictates that a 10% discount factor be used and future net revenues are calculated using prices that represent the average of the first day of the month price for the 12 month period prior to the end of each quarterly period. Costs included in future net revenues are determined in a similar manner. Therefore, the future net revenues associated with the estimated proved reserves are not based on our assessment of future prices or costs. In calculating the ceiling, we adjust the end of period price by the effect of derivative contracts in place that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. This adjustment requires little judgment as the calculated average price is adjusted using the contract prices for such hedges. None of our outstanding derivative contracts at December 31, 2009 qualified for hedge accounting treatment. Because the ceiling calculation dictates the use of prices that are not representative of future prices and requires a 10% discount factor, the resulting value is not indicative of the true fair value of the reserves. Oil and gas prices have historically been cyclical and, for any particular 12 month period, can be either higher or lower than our long term price forecast, which is a more appropriate input for estimating fair value. Therefore, oil and gas property writedowns that result from applying the full cost ceiling limitation, and that are caused by fluctuations in price as opposed to reductions to the underlying quantities of reserves, should not be viewed as absolute indicators of a reduction of the ultimate value of the related reserves. Because of the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict the timing or magnitude of full cost writedowns. Derivative Financial Instruments Policy Description We periodically enter into derivative financial instruments with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production that hedge the future prices received. These instruments are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil and gas price volatility. Our oil and gas derivative financial instruments include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Additionally, we periodically enter into interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. Under the terms of certain of our interest rate swaps, we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate on a total notional amount. The remainder of our swaps represent forward starting swaps, under which we will pay a fixed rate and receive a floating rate on a total notional amount. All derivative financial instruments are recognized at their current fair value as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments are recorded in the statement of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. If such criteria are met for cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value is recorded directly to accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, until the hedged transaction occurs. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value is recorded in the statement of operations. If such criteria are met for fair value hedges, the change in the fair value is recorded in the statement of operations with an 63 Table of Contents offsetting amount recorded for the change in fair value of the hedged item. Cash settlements with counterparties to our derivative financial instruments also increase or decrease earnings at the time of the settlement. A derivative financial instrument qualifies for hedge accounting treatment if we designate the instrument as such on the date the derivative contract is entered into or the date of a business combination or other transaction that includes derivative contracts. Additionally, we must document the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the instrument. We must also assess, both at the instruments inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivative is highly effective in offsetting the change in cash flow of the hedged item. For derivative financial instruments held during 2009, 2008 and 2007, we chose not to meet the necessary criteria to qualify our derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting treatment. Judgments and Assumptions The estimates of the fair values of our derivative instruments require substantial judgment. We estimate the fair values of our oil and gas derivative financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted using LIBOR and money market futures rates for the first year and money market futures and swap rates thereafter. These pricing and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward prices and regional price differentials. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by third parties. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted using LIBOR and money market futures rates for the first year and money market futures and swap rates thereafter. These yield and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties and or brokers. In spite of the recent turmoil in the financial markets, counterparty credit risk has not had a significant effect on our cash flow calculations and derivative valuations. This is primarily the result of two factors. First, we have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with numerous counterparties. Our commodity derivative contracts are held with twelve separate counterparties, and our interest rate derivative contracts are held with seven separate counterparties. Second, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold for collateral posting decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2009, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. Because we have chosen not to qualify our derivatives for hedge accounting treatment, changes in the fair values of derivatives can have a significant impact on our results of operations. Generally, changes in derivative fair values will not impact our liquidity or capital resources. Settlements of derivative instruments, regardless of whether they qualify for hedge accounting, do have an impact on our liquidity and results of operations. Generally, if actual market prices are higher than the price of the derivative instruments, our net earnings and cash flow from operations will be lower relative to the results 64 Table of Contents that would have occurred absent these instruments. The opposite is also true. Additional information regarding the effects that changes in market prices can have on our derivative financial instruments, net earnings and cash flow from operations is included in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Business Combinations Policy Description From our beginning as a public company in 1988 through 2003, we grew substantially through acquisitions of other oil and gas companies. Most of these acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Current accounting pronouncements require the purchase method to be used to account for any future acquisitions. Under the purchase method, the acquiring company adds to its balance sheet the estimated fair values of the acquired companys assets and liabilities. Any excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the tangible and intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. Judgments and Assumptions There are various assumptions we make in determining the fair values of an acquired companys assets and liabilities. The most significant assumptions, and the ones requiring the most judgment, involve the estimated fair values of the oil and gas properties acquired. To determine the fair values of these properties, we prepare estimates of oil, gas and NGL reserves. These estimates are based on work performed by our engineers and that of outside consultants. The judgments associated with these estimated reserves are described earlier in this section in connection with the full cost ceiling calculation. However, there are factors involved in estimating the fair values of acquired oil, gas and NGL properties that require more judgment than that involved in the full cost ceiling calculation. As stated above, the full cost ceiling calculation dictates the use of prices that are not representative of future prices. By contrast, the fair value of reserves acquired in a business combination must be based on our estimates of future oil, gas and NGL prices. Our estimates of future prices are based on our own analysis of pricing trends. These estimates are based on current data obtained with regard to regional and worldwide supply and demand dynamics such as economic growth forecasts. They are also based on industry data regarding gas storage availability, drilling rig activity, changes in delivery capacity, trends in regional pricing differentials and other fundamental analysis. Forecasts of future prices from independent third parties are noted when we make our pricing estimates. We estimate future prices to apply to the estimated reserve quantities acquired, and estimate future operating and development costs, to arrive at estimates of future net revenues. For estimated proved reserves, the future net revenues are then discounted using a rate determined appropriate at the time of the business combination based upon our cost of capital. We also apply these same general principles to estimate the fair value of unproved properties acquired in a business combination. These unproved properties generally represent the value of probable and possible reserves. Because of their very nature, probable and possible reserve estimates are more imprecise than those of proved reserves. To compensate for the inherent risk of estimating and valuing unproved reserves, the discounted future net revenues of probable and possible reserves are reduced by what we consider to be an appropriate risk weighting factor in each particular instance. It is common for the discounted future net revenues of probable and possible reserves to be reduced by factors ranging from 30% to 80% to arrive at what we consider to be the appropriate fair values. Generally, in our business combinations, the determination of the fair values of oil and gas properties requires much more judgment than the fair values of other assets and liabilities. The acquired companies commonly have long term debt that we assume in the acquisition, and this debt must be recorded at the estimated fair value as if we had issued such debt. However, significant judgment on our behalf is usually not 65 Table of Contents required in these situations due to the existence of comparable market values of debt issued by peer companies. Except for the 2002 acquisition of Mitchell Energy Development Corp., our mergers and acquisitions have involved other entities whose operations were predominantly in the area of exploration, development and production activities related to oil and gas properties. However, in addition to exploration, development and production activities, Mitchells business also included substantial marketing and midstream activities. Therefore, a portion of the Mitchell purchase price was allocated to the fair value of Mitchells marketing and midstream facilities and equipment. This consisted primarily of natural gas processing plants and natural gas pipeline systems. The Mitchell midstream assets primarily serve gas producing properties that we also acquired from Mitchell. Therefore, certain of the assumptions regarding future operations of the gas producing properties were also integral to the value of the midstream assets. For example, future quantities of gas estimated to be processed by natural gas processing plants were based on the same estimates used to value the proved and unproved gas producing properties. Future expected prices for marketing and midstream product sales were also based on price cases consistent with those used to value the oil and gas producing assets acquired from Mitchell. Based on historical costs and known trends and commitments, we also estimated future operating and capital costs of the marketing and midstream assets to arrive at estimated future cash flows. These cash flows were discounted at rates consistent with those used to discount future net cash flows from oil and gas producing assets to arrive at our estimated fair value of the marketing and midstream facilities and equipment. In addition to the valuation methods described above, we perform other quantitative analyses to support the indicated value in any business combination. These analyses include information related to comparable companies, comparable transactions and premiums paid. In a comparable companies analysis, we review the public stock market trading multiples for selected publicly traded independent exploration and production companies with comparable financial and operating characteristics. Such characteristics are market capitalization, location of proved reserves and the characterization of those reserves that we deem to be similar to those of the party to the proposed business combination. We compare these comparable company multiples to the proposed business combination company multiples for reasonableness. In a comparable transactions analysis, we review certain acquisition multiples for selected independent exploration and production company transactions and oil and gas asset packages announced recently. We compare these comparable transaction multiples to the proposed business combination transaction multiples for reasonableness. In a premiums paid analysis, we use a sample of selected independent exploration and production company transactions in addition to selected transactions of all publicly traded companies announced recently, to review the premiums paid to the price of the target one day, one week and one month prior to the announcement of the transaction. We use this information to determine the mean and median premiums paid and compare them to the proposed business combination premium for reasonableness. While these estimates of fair value for the various assets acquired and liabilities assumed have no effect on our liquidity or capital resources, they can have an effect on the future results of operations. Generally, the higher the fair value assigned to both the oil and gas properties and non oil and gas properties, the lower future net earnings will be as a result of higher future depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. Also, a higher fair value assigned to the oil and gas properties, based on higher future estimates of oil and gas prices, will increase the likelihood of a full cost ceiling writedown in the event that subsequent oil and gas prices drop below our price forecast that was used to originally determine fair value. A full cost ceiling writedown would have no effect on our liquidity or capital resources in that period because it is a noncash charge, but it would adversely affect results of operations. As discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity, in calculating our debt to capitalization ratio under our credit agreement, total capitalization is adjusted to add back noncash financial writedowns such as full cost ceiling property impairments or goodwill impairments. 66 Table of Contents Our estimates of reserve quantities are one of the many estimates that are involved in determining the appropriate fair value of the oil and gas properties acquired in a business combination. As previously disclosed in our discussion of the full cost ceiling calculations, during the past five years, our annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates have averaged less than 2%. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, there are numerous estimates in addition to reserve quantity estimates that are involved in determining the fair value of oil and gas properties acquired in a business combination. The inter relationship of these estimates makes it impractical to provide additional quantitative analyses of the effects of changes in these estimates. Valuation of Goodwill Policy Description Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is tested for impairment at least annually. The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to assigned reporting units. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated and compared to the net book value of the reporting unit. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the net book value, including goodwill, then the goodwill is written down to the implied fair value of the goodwill through a charge to expense. Judgments and Assumptions The annual impairment test, which we conduct as of October 31 each year, requires us to estimate the fair values of our own assets and liabilities. Because quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the fair values of the reporting units are estimated in a manner similar to the process described above for a business combination. Therefore, considerable judgment similar to that described above in connection with estimating the fair value of an acquired company in a business combination is also required to assess goodwill for impairment. At October 31, 2009, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units were more than double their related carrying values. This excess largely results from the reductions of carrying value that we recognized in 2008 and 2009 due to full cost ceiling limitations, which are not representative of the fair values of our oil and gas properties. Excluding the effects of these reductions, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units exceeded the carrying values by approximately 40% and 80%, respectively. Generally, the higher the fair value assigned to both the oil and gas properties and non oil and gas properties, the lower goodwill would be. A lower goodwill value decreases the likelihood of an impairment charge. However, unfavorable changes in reserves or in our price forecast would increase the likelihood of a goodwill impairment charge. A goodwill impairment charge would have no effect on liquidity or capital resources. However, it would adversely affect our results of operations in that period. Due to the inter relationship of the various estimates involved in assessing goodwill for impairment, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates, other than to note the historical average changes in our reserve estimates previously set forth. Forward Looking Estimates We are providing our 2010 forward looking estimates in the following discussion. These estimates are based on our examination of historical operating trends, the information used to prepare our December 31, 2009 reserve reports and other data in our possession or available from third parties. The forward looking estimates in this discussion were prepared assuming demand, curtailment, producibility and general market conditions for our oil, gas and NGLs during 2010 will be substantially similar to those that existed in 2009, unless otherwise noted. We make reference to the Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this report. Amounts related to Canadian operations have been converted to U.S. dollars using an estimated average 2010 exchange rate of $0.95 U.S. dollar to $1.00 Canadian dollar. We plan to strategically reposition Devon by divesting our U.S. Offshore and International assets. We have entered into agreements to sell our interests in the Cascade, Jack and St. Malo properties in the Gulf of 67 Table of Contents Mexico. The following estimates assume these transactions close on the expected dates during the first quarter of 2010. Although we expect to complete the remainder of the divestitures throughout 2010, all estimates presented assume the remaining divestitures close at the end of 2010. Operating Items Oil, Gas and NGL Production Set forth below are our estimates of oil, gas and NGL production for 2010. We estimate that our combined oil, gas and NGL production will total approximately 231 to 235 MMBoe. The following estimates for oil, gas and NGL production are calculated at the midpoint of the estimated range for total production. Oil Gas NGLs Total (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) U.S. Onshore 13 692 28 156 Canada 28 204 3 65 North American Onshore 41 896 31 221 U.S. Offshore 4 46 12 Total 45 942 31 233 Oil and Gas Prices We expect our 2010 average prices for the oil and gas production from each of our operating areas to differ from the NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The expected ranges for prices are exclusive of the anticipated effects of the financial contracts presented in the Commodity Price Risk Management section below. The NYMEX price for oil is determined using the monthly average of settled prices on each trading day for benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude oil delivered at Cushing, Oklahoma. The NYMEX price for gas is determined using the first of month South Louisiana Henry Hub price index as published monthly in Inside FERC. Expected Range of Prices as a % of NYMEX Price Oil Gas U.S. Onshore 90% to 100% 75% to 85% Canada 65% to 75% 85% to 95% North American Onshore 72% to 82% 77% to 87% U.S. Offshore 95% to 105% 100% to 110% Commodity Price Risk Management From time to time, we enter into NYMEX related financial commodity collar, price swap and basis swap contracts. Such contracts are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil and gas price volatility. Although these financial contracts do not relate to specific production from our operating areas, they will affect our overall revenues, earnings and cash flow in 2010. As of February 15, 2010, our financial commodity contracts pertaining to 2010 consisted of oil and gas price collars, gas price swaps and gas basis swaps. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 1,265,000 $ 6.16 68 Table of Contents Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year AECO 150,000 $ 0.33 Total year CIG 70,000 $ 0.37 Gas Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) First Quarter 70,000 $ 5.40 $5.40 $ 5.40 $ 6.01 $6.14 $ 6.06 Second Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Third Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Fourth Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Total year 88,836 $ 5.40 $5.50 $ 5.48 $ 6.01 $7.10 $ 6.76 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 79,000 $ 65.00 $70.00 $ 67.47 $ 90.35 $103.30 $ 96.48 To the extent that monthly NYMEX prices or differentials on certain regional indexes in 2010 are outside of the ranges established by the collars or differ from those established by the swaps, we and the counterparties to the contracts will cash settle the difference. Such settlements will either increase or decrease our revenues for the period. Also, we will mark to market the contracts based on their fair values throughout 2010. Changes in the contracts fair values will also be recorded as increases or decreases to our revenues. The expected ranges of our realized prices as a percentage of NYMEX prices, which are presented earlier in this report, do not include any estimates of the impact on our prices from monthly settlements or changes in the fair values of our price collars and swaps. Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Expenses Marketing and midstream revenues and expenses are derived primarily from our gas processing plants and gas pipeline systems. These revenues and expenses vary in response to several factors. The factors include, but are not limited to, changes in production from wells connected to the pipelines and related processing plants, changes in the absolute and relative prices of gas and NGLs, provisions of contractual agreements and the amount of repair and maintenance activity required to maintain anticipated processing levels and pipeline throughput volumes. These factors increase the uncertainty inherent in estimating future marketing and midstream revenues and expenses. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our 2010 marketing and midstream operating profit will be between $450 million and $525 million. We estimate that marketing and midstream revenues will be between $1.850 billion and $2.125 billion, and marketing and midstream expenses will be between $1.400 billion and $1.600 billion. Lease Operating Expenses These expenses, which include transportation costs, vary in response to several factors. Among the most significant of these factors are additions to or deletions from the property base, changes in the general price level of services and materials that are used in the operation of the properties, the amount of repair and workover activity required. Oil, gas and NGL prices also have an effect on lease operating expenses and impact the economic feasibility of planned workover projects. 69 Table of Contents Given these uncertainties, we expect that our 2010 lease operating expenses will be between $1.74 billion and $1.90 billion. This estimated range includes $1.58 billion to $1.72 billion related to our North American Onshore business and $0.16 to $0.18 billion associated with our U.S. Offshore operations. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Our taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes that relate to our U.S. Onshore properties and are assessed by various government agencies. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. Over time, a certain propertys assessed value will increase or decrease due to changes in commodity sales prices, production volumes and proved reserves. Therefore, ad valorem taxes will generally move in the same direction as our oil, gas and NGL sales but in a less predictable manner compared to production taxes. Additionally, both production and ad valorem taxes will increase or decrease due to changes in the rates assessed by the government agencies. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our taxes other than income taxes for 2010 will be between 4.50% and 5.50% of total oil, gas and NGL sales. We estimate our 2010 taxes other than income taxes for our North American Onshore operations will range from 4.75% to 5.75% of revenues. We estimate the U.S. Offshore rates will range from 1.00% to 2.00% of revenues. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DDA) Our 2010 oil and gas property DDA rate will depend on various factors. Most notable among such factors are the amount of proved reserves that will be added from drilling or acquisition efforts in 2010 compared to the costs incurred for such efforts, revisions to our year end 2009 reserve estimates that, based on prior experience, are likely to be made during 2010, as well as reductions of carrying value resulting from full cost ceiling tests. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our oil and gas property related DDA rate will be between $7.60 per Boe and $8.10 per Boe. Based on these DDA rates and the production estimates set forth earlier, oil and gas property related DDA expense for 2010 is expected to be between $1.77 billion and $1.89 billion. For our North American Onshore assets, we estimate the DDA rate will range from $7.65 to $8.15 per Boe, resulting in estimated DDA expense of $1.69 billion to $1.80 billion. Our U.S. Offshore DDA rate is estimated to be between $6.75 and $7.25 per Boe, resulting in estimated DDA expense of $0.08 billion to $0.09 billion. Additionally, we expect that our depreciation and amortization expense related to non oil and gas property fixed assets will total between $270 million and $300 million in 2010. This estimate relates entirely to our North American Onshore assets. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligation Accretion of asset retirement obligation in 2010 is expected to be between $95 million and $105 million. This estimated range includes $70 million to $80 million related to our North American Onshore business and $25 million associated with our U.S. Offshore operations. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our GA includes employee compensation and benefits costs and the costs of many different goods and services used in support of our business. GA varies with the level of our operating activities and the related staffing and professional services requirements. In addition, employee compensation and benefits costs vary due to various market factors that affect the level and type of compensation and benefits offered to employees. Also, goods and services are subject to general price level increases or decreases. Therefore, significant 70 Table of Contents variances in any of these factors from current expectations could cause actual GA to vary materially from the estimate. Given these limitations, we estimate our GA for 2010 will be between $580 million and $620 million. This estimate includes approximately $115 million of non cash, share based compensation, net of related capitalization in accordance with the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Restructuring Costs In conjunction with the planned 2010 asset divestitures, we estimate we will incur certain one time restructuring costs totaling between $203 million and $273 million. Such costs estimates consist of employee severance and termination costs, contract termination costs and other associated costs. We recognized $153 million of employee severance costs during the fourth quarter of 2009. We expect the majority of the remaining restructuring costs, including any revisions to the fourth quarter 2009 employee severance costs, will be recognized during 2010. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties Due to the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict whether we will incur full cost writedowns in 2010. Interest Expense Future interest rates and debt outstanding have a significant effect on our interest expense. We can only marginally influence the prices we will receive in 2010 from sales of oil, gas and NGLs and the resulting cash flow. This increases the margin of error inherent in estimating future outstanding debt balances and related interest expense. Other factors that affect outstanding debt balances and related interest expense, such as the amount and timing of capital expenditures are generally within our control. As of February 15, 2010, we had total debt of $7.1 billion. This included $5.8 billion of fixed rate debt and $1.3 billion of variable rate commercial paper borrowings. The fixed rate debt bears interest at an overall weighted average rate of 7.2%. The commercial paper borrowings bear interest at variable rates based on a standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. As of February 15, 2010, the weighted average variable rate for our commercial paper borrowings was 0.25%. Additionally, any future borrowings under our credit facilities would bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods up to twelve months and are generally less than the prime rate. Based on the factors above, we expect our 2010 interest expense to be between $325 million and $365 million. The estimated interest expense is exclusive of the anticipated effects of the interest rate swap contracts presented in the Interest Rate Risk Management section below. The 2010 interest expense estimate above is comprised of three primary components interest related to outstanding debt, fees and issuance costs, and capitalized interest. We expect the interest expense in 2010 related to our fixed rate and floating rate debt, including net accretion of related discounts, to be between $395 million and $435 million. We expect the interest expense in 2010 related to facility and agency fees, amortization of debt issuance costs and other miscellaneous items not related to outstanding debt balances to be between $10 million and $20 million. We also expect to capitalize between $80 million and $90 million of interest during 2010. Interest Rate Risk Management From time to time, we enter into interest rate swaps. Such contracts are used to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. 71 Table of Contents As of February 15, 2010, our interest rate swaps pertaining to 2010 consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following table. Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 $ 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 $ 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 $ 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Income Taxes Our financial income tax rate in 2010 will vary materially depending on the actual amount of financial pre tax earnings. The tax rate for 2010 will be significantly affected by the proportional share of consolidated pre tax earnings generated by our United States and Canadian operations due to the different tax rates of each country. Also, certain tax deductions and credits will have a fixed impact on 2010 income tax expense regardless of the level of pre tax earnings that are produced. Additionally, significant changes in estimated capital expenditures, production levels of oil, gas and NGLs, the prices of such products, marketing and midstream revenues, or any of the various expense items could materially alter the effect of these tax deductions and credits on 2010 financial income tax rates. Given the uncertainty of pre tax earnings, we expect that our total financial income tax rate in 2010 will be between 20% and 40%. The current income tax rate is expected to be between 10% and 20%. The deferred income tax rate is expected to be between 10% and 20%. These ranges do not include the impact of current and deferred income taxes that will be recognized upon the completion of the 2010 asset divestitures. Discontinued Operations The following table shows the estimates for 2010 production, pricing, expenses and capital associated with our discontinued International operations for 2010. These estimates assume the sales will occur at the end of 2010. Pursuant to accounting rules for discontinued operations, the International assets will not be subject to DDA during 2010. Low High ($ in millions, except per Boe) Oil production (MMBbls) 14 16 Average oil price as a % of NYMEX 90 % 100 % LOE $ 190 $ 210 Taxes other than income taxes as % of revenue 10.25 % 11.25 % Accretion of asset retirement obligation $ 5 $ 5 Income tax rates: Current 20 % 30 % Deferred (5 )% % Total 15 % 30 % Development capital $ 220 $ 260 Exploration capital $ 240 $ 280 Total development exploration $ 460 $ 540 Other capital $ 80 $ 90 72 Table of Contents Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Capital Expenditures Though we have completed several major property acquisitions in recent years, these transactions are opportunity driven. Thus, we do not forecast, nor can we reasonably predict, the timing or size of such possible acquisitions. Our capital expenditures budget is based on an expected range of future oil, gas and NGL prices as well as the expected costs of the capital additions. Should actual prices received differ materially from our price expectations for our future production, some projects may be accelerated or deferred and, consequently, may increase or decrease total 2010 capital expenditures. In addition, if the actual material or labor costs of the budgeted items vary significantly from the anticipated amounts, actual capital expenditures could vary materially from our estimates. Given the limitations discussed above, the following table shows expected ranges for drilling, development and facilities expenditures by geographic area. Development capital includes development activity related to reserves classified as proved and drilling that does not offset currently productive units and for which there is not a certainty of continued production from a known productive formation. Exploration capital includes exploratory drilling to find and produce oil or gas in previously untested fault blocks or new reservoirs. U.S. North American U.S. Onshore Canada Onshore Offshore Total (In millions) Development capital $ 2,210 $2,470 $ 1,010 $1,140 $ 3,220 $3,610 $ 420 $500 $ 3,640 $4,110 Exploration capital $ 520 $560 $ 20 $30 $ 540 $590 $ 100 $120 $ 640 $710 Total $ 2,730 $3,030 $ 1,030 $1,170 $ 3,760 $4,200 $ 520 $620 $ 4,280 $4,820 In addition to the above expenditures for drilling, development and facilities, we expect to capitalize between $330 million and $350 million of GA expenses in accordance with the full cost method of accounting and to capitalize between $45 million and $55 million of interest. We also expect to pay between $80 million and $90 million for plugging and abandonment charges. Additionally, we expect to spend between $380 million and $430 million on our marketing and midstream assets, which primarily include our oil pipelines, gas processing plants, and gas pipeline systems. We expect to spend between $385 million and $435 million for corporate and other fixed assets. Other Cash Uses Our management expects the policy of paying a quarterly common stock dividend to continue. With the current $0.16 per share quarterly dividend rate and 447 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009, dividends are expected to approximate $286 million. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our estimated 2010 cash uses, including our capital activities, are expected to be funded primarily through a combination of our existing cash balances and operating cash flow. Another major source of liquidity will be proceeds from the divestiture of our offshore operations, which we estimate will range from $4.5 billion to $7.5 billion after taxes. The amount of operating cash flow to be generated during 2010 is uncertain due to the factors affecting revenues and expenses as previously cited. The amount of divestiture proceeds we ultimately receive is also uncertain. However, we expect our combined capital resources will be adequate to fund our anticipated capital expenditures and other cash uses for 2010. Additionally, we can borrow commercial paper or access our lines of credit, which had an available capacity of approximately $2.0 billion as of February 15, 2010, to fund planned or additional capital activities. 73 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The following disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than speculative trading. Commodity Price Risk Our major market risk exposure is in the pricing applicable to our oil, gas and NGL production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to our U.S. and Canadian gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil, gas and NGL production has been volatile and unpredictable for several years. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Consequently, we periodically enter into financial hedging activities with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production through various financial transactions that hedge the future prices received. These transactions include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Based on gas price contracts in place as of December 31, 2009, we have approximately 1.3 Bcf per day of gas production in 2010 that is associated with price swaps or fixed price contracts. This amount represents approximately 50% of our estimated 2010 gas production. As of December 31, 2009, we also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2010 gas production. All of the gas price swap contracts expire December 31, 2010. The key terms of our gas price contracts are presented in the following tables. 2010 Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 1,265,000 $ 6.16 2010 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential Volume to Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year AECO 150,000 $ 0.33 Total year CIG 70,000 $ 0.37 Based on oil price collar contracts in place as of December 31, 2009, we have hedged 79,000 barrels of oil per day for 2010. This amount represents approximately 65% of our estimated 2010 oil production. The key terms of our oil collar contracts are presented in the following table. 2010 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 79,000 $ 65.00 $70.00 $ 67.47 $ 90.35 $103.30 $ 96.48 The fair values of our gas price and basis swaps and oil collars are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of relevant oil and gas price indexes. At December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased the fair value of our gas price swaps by approximately $264 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil collars would have decreased the fair value of these instruments by approximately $108 million. 74 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2009, we had debt outstanding of $7.3 billion. Of this amount, $5.9 billion, or 80%, bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.2%. Additionally, we had $1.4 billion of outstanding commercial paper, bearing interest at floating rates which averaged 0.29%. As of December 31, 2009, our interest rate swaps consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $1.85 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate of 3.99% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 $ 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 $ 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 $ 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 700 3.99 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 The fair values of our interest rate instruments are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the Federal Funds rate and LIBOR. At December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our net assets by approximately $46 million. Foreign Currency Risk Our net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our Canadian subsidiaries are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the Canadian dollar functional currency. Assets and liabilities of the Canadian subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of a reporting period. Revenues, expenses and cash flow are translated using the average exchange rate during the reporting period. A 10% unfavorable change in the Canadian to U.S. dollar exchange rate would not materially impact our December 31, 2009 balance sheet. 75 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (In millions, except per share data, ratios, prices and per Boe amounts) Operating Results Revenues $ 8,015 $ 13,858 $ 9,975 $ 9,143 $ 9,630 Total expenses and other income, net(1) 12,541 18,018 6,648 5,957 5,477 (Loss) earnings from continuing operations before income taxes (4,526 ) (4,160 ) 3,327 3,186 4,153 Total income tax (benefit) expense (1,773 ) (1,121 ) 842 870 1,413 (Loss) earnings from continuing operations (2,753 ) (3,039 ) 2,485 2,316 2,740 Earnings from discontinued operations(1) 274 891 1,121 530 190 Net (loss) earnings $ (2,479 ) $ (2,148 ) $ 3,606 $ 2,846 $ 2,930 Net (loss) earnings applicable to common stockholders $ (2,479 ) $ (2,153 ) $ 3,596 $ 2,836 $ 2,920 Basic net (loss) earnings per share: (Loss) earnings from continuing operations $ (6.20 ) $ (6.86 ) $ 5.56 $ 5.22 $ 5.96 Earnings from discontinued operations 0.62 2.01 2.52 1.20 0.42 Net (loss) earnings $ (5.58 ) $ (4.85 ) $ 8.08 $ 6.42 $ 6.38 Diluted net (loss) earnings per share: (Loss) earnings from continuing operations $ (6.20 ) $ (6.86 ) $ 5.50 $ 5.15 $ 5.86 Earnings from discontinued operations 0.62 2.01 2.50 1.19 0.40 Net (loss) earnings $ (5.58 ) $ (4.85 ) $ 8.00 $ 6.34 $ 6.26 Cash dividends per common share $ 0.64 $ 0.64 $ 0.56 $ 0.45 $ 0.30 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(1)(2) N/A N/A 6.97 7.11 7.67 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends(1)(2) N/A N/A 6.78 6.91 7.49 Cash Flow Data Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,737 $ 9,408 $ 6,651 $ 5,993 $ 5,612 Net cash used in investing activities $ (5,354 ) $ (6,873 ) $ (5,714 ) $ (7,449 ) $ (1,652 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 1,201 $ (3,408 ) $ (371 ) $ 593 $ (3,543 ) Production, Price and Other Data(3) Production: Oil (MMBbls) 42 39 35 32 38 Gas (Bcf) 966 938 862 807 816 NGLs (MMBbls) 30 28 26 23 24 Total (MMBoe)(4) 233 223 204 190 198 Realized prices without hedges: Oil (per Bbl) $ 51.39 $ 83.35 $ 60.30 $ 56.18 $ 47.90 Gas (per Mcf) $ 3.31 $ 7.73 $ 5.97 $ 6.03 $ 7.08 NGLs (per Bbl) $ 24.71 $ 44.08 $ 37.76 $ 32.10 $ 29.05 Combined (per Boe)(4) $ 26.15 $ 52.49 $ 40.26 $ 39.09 $ 41.96 Lease operating expenses per Boe(4) $ 7.16 $ 8.29 $ 7.50 $ 6.48 $ 5.60 Depreciation, depletion and amortization of oil and gas properties per Boe(4) $ 7.86 $ 13.20 $ 11.81 $ 10.28 $ 8.62 32 Table of Contents December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Balance Sheet Data Total assets(1) $ 29,686 $ 31,908 $ 41,456 $ 35,063 $ 30,273 Long term debt $ 5,847 $ 5,661 $ 6,924 $ 5,568 $ 5,957 Stockholders equity $ 15,570 $ 17,060 $ 22,006 $ 17,442 $ 14,862 (1) During 2009 and 2008, we recorded noncash reductions of carrying value of oil and gas properties totaling $6.4 billion ($4.1 billion after income taxes) and $9.9 billion ($6.7 billion after income taxes), respectively, related to our continuing operations as discussed in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. During 2009, 2008 and 2007 we recorded noncash reductions of carrying value of oil and gas properties totaling $108 million ($105 million after taxes), $494 million ($465 million after taxes) and $68 million ($13 million after taxes) related to our discontinued operations as discussed in Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements. (2) For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and the ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends, (i) earnings consist of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, plus fixed charges; (ii) fixed charges consist of interest expense and one third of rental expense estimated to be attributable to interest; and (iii) preferred stock dividends consist of the amount of pre tax earnings required to pay dividends on the preferred stock that was outstanding until June 2008. For 2009, earnings from continuing operations were inadequate to cover fixed charges by $4.6 billion. For 2008, earnings from continuing operations were inadequate to cover fixed charges and combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends by $4.2 billion. These earnings relationships were primarily the result of the noncash reductions of the carrying values of certain oil and gas properties referred to above. (3) The amounts presented under Production, Price and Other Data exclude the amounts related to our discontinued international operations. The price data presented excludes the effects of unrealized and realized gains and losses from our oil and gas derivative financial instruments. (4) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. The respective prices of oil, gas and NGLs are affected by market and other factors in addition to relative energy content. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The following discussion and analysis presents managements perspective of our business, financial condition and overall performance. This information is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our past performance, current financial condition and outlook for the future and should be reviewed in conjunction with our Selected Financial Data and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our discussion and analysis relates to the following subjects: Overview of Business Overview of 2009 Results Business and Industry Outlook Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Contingencies and Legal Matters 33 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Forward Looking Estimates Overview of Business Devon is one of North Americas leading independent oil and gas exploration and production companies. Our operations are focused in the United States and Canada. We also own natural gas pipelines and treatment facilities in many of our producing areas, making us one of North Americas larger processors of natural gas liquids. As an enterprise, we strive to optimize value for our shareholders by growing reserves, production, earnings and cash flows, all on a per share basis. We accomplish this by replenishing our reserves and production and managing other key operational elements that drive our success. These items are discussed more fully below. Reserves and production growth Our financial condition and profitability are significantly affected by the amount of proved reserves we own. Oil and gas properties are our most significant assets, and the reserves that relate to such properties are key to our future success. To increase our proved reserves, we must replace quantities produced with additional reserves from successful exploration and development activities or property acquisitions. Additionally, our profitability and operating cash flows are largely dependent on the amount of oil, gas and NGLs we produce. Growing production from existing properties is difficult because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. As a result, we constantly drill for and develop reserves on properties that provide a balance of near term and long term production. In addition, we may acquire properties with proved reserves that we can develop and subsequently produce to help us meet our production goals. Capital investment discipline Effectively deploying our resources into capital projects is key to maintaining and growing future production and oil and gas reserves. As a result, we have historically deployed virtually all our available cash flow into capital projects. Therefore, maintaining a disciplined approach to investing in capital projects is important to our profitability and financial condition. Our ability to control capital expenditures can be affected by changes in commodity prices. During times of high commodity prices, drilling and related costs often escalate due to the effects of supply versus demand economics. The inverse is also true. Approximately two thirds of our planned 2010 investment in capital projects is dedicated to a foundation of low risk projects in our North American Onshore properties. The remainder of our capital has been identified for longer term projects primarily in new unconventional natural gas plays in several U.S. Onshore regions, as well as offshore activities in the Gulf of Mexico. By deploying our capital in this manner, we are able to consistently deliver cost efficient drill bit growth and provide a strong source of cash flow while balancing short term and long term growth targets. The timing of closing the planned sales of our Gulf of Mexico properties will impact exactly how much of our 2010 capital is used on our Gulf of Mexico assets. High margin assets Like many investors, we seek to invest our capital resources into projects where we can generate the highest risk adjusted investment returns. One factor that can have a significant impact on such returns is our drilling success rates. Combined with appropriate revenue and cost management strategies, high drilling success rates are important to generating competitive returns on our capital investment. During 2009, we drilled 1,135 wells and 99% of those were successful. The success rate is similar to our drilling achievements in recent years, demonstrating a proven track record of success. By accomplishing high drilling success rates, we provide an inventory of reserves growth and a platform of opportunities on our undrilled acreage that can be profitably developed. Reserves and production balance As evidenced by history, commodity prices are inherently volatile. In addition, oil and gas prices often diverge due to a variety of circumstances. Consequently, we value a balance of reserves and production between gas and liquids that can add stability to our revenue stream when either commodity price is under pressure. Our production mix in 2009 was 34 Table of Contents approximately 70% gas and 30% oil and NGLs such as propane, butane and ethane. Our year end reserves were approximately 60% gas and 40% liquids. With planned future growth in oil from our Jackfish and other projects, combined with an inventory of shale natural gas plays, we expect to maintain this balance in the future. Operating cost controls To maintain our competitive position, we must control our lease operating costs and other production costs. As reservoirs are depleted and production rates decline, per unit production costs will generally increase and affect our profitability and operating cash flows. Similar to capital expenditures, our ability to control operating costs can be affected by significant changes in commodity prices. Our base North American production is focused in core areas of our operations where we can achieve economies of scale to help manage our operating costs. Marketing and midstream performance improvement We enhance the value of our oil and gas operations with our marketing and midstream business. By efficiently gathering and processing oil, gas and NGL production, our midstream operations contribute to our strategies to grow reserves and production and manage expenditures. Additionally, by effectively marketing our production, we maximize the prices received for our oil, gas and NGL production in relation to market prices. This is important because our profitability is highly dependent on market prices. These prices are determined primarily by market conditions. Market conditions for these products have been, and will continue to be, influenced by regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other factors that are beyond our control. To manage this volatility, we utilize financial hedging arrangements and fixed price physical delivery contracts. As of February 15, 2010, approximately 53% of our 2010 gas production is associated with financial price swaps and collars. Additionally, approximately 65% of our 2010 oil production is associated with financial price collars. Financial flexibility preservation As mentioned, commodity prices have been and will continue to be volatile and will continue to impact our profitability and cash flow. We understand this fact and manage our debt levels accordingly to preserve our liquidity and financial flexibility. We generally operate within the cash flow generated by our operations. However, during periods of low commodity prices, we may use our balance sheet strength to access debt or equity markets, allowing us to preserve our business and maintain momentum until markets recover. When prices improve, we can utilize excess operating cash flow to repay debt and invest in our activities that not only maintain but also increase value per share. Overview of 2009 Results 2009 was a pivotal year for us as we began repositioning Devon to focus entirely on our high return, North American Onshore natural gas and oil portfolio. We grew North American Onshore production more than six percent in 2009 and replaced more than twice our production with the drill bit at very attractive costs. The performance of these assets is reflected in our earnings, which steadily increased over the last three quarters of 2009. However, our full year 2009 results were significantly impacted by the downward pressure in oil and natural gas prices that began in the last half of 2008 and continued throughout 2009. The Henry Hub natural gas index average for 2009 was 56% lower than 2008. Although crude prices have improved since the end of 2008, the 2009 West Texas Intermediate oil index average was 38% lower than 2008. The lower oil and gas prices significantly impacted our first quarter 2009 earnings, which in turn impacted our full year earnings. During 2009, we incurred a net loss of $2.5 billion, or $5.58 per diluted share. These amounts are the result of a noncash impairment of our oil and gas properties that was recognized in the first quarter of 2009 and totaled $4.2 billion, net of income taxes. Substantially all of this noncash charge was the result of the drop in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2009. Key measures of our performance for 2009, as well as certain operational developments, are summarized below: Production grew 4% over 2008, to 233 million Boe. 35 Table of Contents The combined realized price for oil, gas and NGLs per Boe decreased 50% to $26.15. Oil and gas hedges generated net gains of $384 million in 2009, including cash receipts of $505 million. Marketing and midstream operating profit decreased 25% to $512 million. Per unit lease operating costs decreased 14% to $7.16 per Boe. Operating cash flow decreased to $4.7 billion, representing a 50% decrease over 2008. Capitalized costs incurred in our oil and gas activities were $4.1 billion in 2009. From an operational perspective, we completed another successful year with the drill bit. We drilled 1,135 gross wells with an overall 99% rate of success. This success rate enabled us to increase proved reserves by 496 million Boe, which was more than double our 2009 production. Our drilling success was driven by North American Onshore development wells, which represented 95% of the wells drilled. Besides another successful year of North American Onshore drilling, we had several other key operational achievements during 2009. The first phase of our 100% owned Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in the Alberta oil sands was operational throughout 2009. As measured by production per well and steam to oil ratio, Jackfish is one of Canadas most successful steam assisted gravity drainage projects. In late 2009, Jackfishs gross production reached 33.7 MBbls of oil per day. The addition of four more producing wells is expected to push production to the facilitys capacity of 35 MBbls per day in early 2010. We continued construction throughout 2009 on a second phase of the Jackfish project. Jackfish 2 is also sized to produce 35 MBbls of oil per day and will commence operations in 2011. Further expansion into a third phase of Jackfish is planned for 2010. We expect to file a regulatory application for Jackfish 3 in the third quarter of 2010. Elsewhere in North America, we are expanding and developing five natural gas shale plays where we own a total of 1.6 million net acres. At the Barnett Shale, the most mature of our shale plays, we pushed our total producing wells to almost 4,200 at the end of 2009, and we exited the year producing just over one Bcfe per day. In the Cana Woodford Shale and Arkoma Woodford Shale, we drilled a total of 108 wells, increasing reserves to 120 MMBoe. In the Haynesville Shale, our drilling has been focused on de risking our acreage in the greater Carthage area of east Texas. Finally, at Horn River, we have assembled a portfolio of acreage that requires minimal drilling to hold. We are in the early stages of evaluating the full potential of these leases and formulating a development plan. Even with the net loss, we maintained a solid financial position throughout 2009. We used operating cash flow, borrowings and cash on hand to fund $5.3 billion of capital expenditures and pay $284 million of dividends. At the end of 2009, we had $1.0 billion of cash and $1.8 billion of availability under our credit lines. Business and Industry Outlook Over the past decade we captured an abundance of resources. We pioneered horizontal drilling in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas and extended this technique to other natural gas shale plays in the United States and Canada. We became proficient with steam assisted gravity drainage with our Jackfish oil sands development in Alberta, Canada. We achieved key oil discoveries with our drilling in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and offshore Brazil. We have more than tripled our proved oil and gas reserves since 2000 and have also assembled an extensive inventory of exploration assets, representing additional unproved resources. Building off our past successes, in November 2009, we announced plans to strategically reposition Devon as a high growth, North American onshore exploration and production company. As part of this strategic repositioning, we plan to bring forward the value of our offshore assets located in the Gulf of Mexico and countries outside North America by divesting them. 36 Table of Contents This repositioning is driven by our desire to unlock and accelerate the realization of the value underlying the deep inventory of opportunities we have. We have assembled a valuable portfolio of offshore assets, and we have a considerable inventory of premier North American onshore assets. However, our North American Onshore assets have consistently provided us our highest risk adjusted investment returns. By selling our offshore assets, we can more aggressively pursue the untapped value of these North American Onshore opportunities. We expect to receive after tax proceeds of between $4.5 billion and $7.5 billion as we divest our U.S. Offshore and International properties in 2010. By using a portion of these proceeds to reduce debt, we will further strengthen our balance sheet. Besides reducing debt, the offshore divestiture proceeds are expected to provide significant funds to redeploy into our prolific North American Onshore opportunities. With these added funds, we plan to accelerate the growth and realization of the value of our North American Onshore assets. Results of Operations As previously stated, we are in the process of divesting our offshore assets. As a result, all amounts in this document related to our International operations are presented as discontinued. Therefore, the production, revenue and expense amounts presented in this Results of Operations section exclude amounts related to our International assets unless otherwise noted. Even though we are also divesting our U.S. Offshore operations, these properties do not qualify as discontinued operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and operating data provided in this document that pertain to our continuing operations include amounts related to our U.S. Offshore operations. To facilitate comparisons of our ongoing operations subsequent to the planned divestitures, we have presented amounts related to our U.S. Offshore assets separate from those of our North American Onshore assets where appropriate. Unless otherwise stated, all dollar amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars. Revenues Our oil, gas and NGL production volumes from 2007 to 2009 are shown in the following table. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 Oil (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 12 +3 % 11 +0 % 11 Canada 25 +17 % 22 +34 % 16 North American Onshore 37 +12 % 33 +20 % 27 U.S. Offshore 5 15 % 6 24 % 8 Total 42 +8 % 39 +10 % 35 Gas (Bcf) U.S. Onshore 698 +5 % 669 +20 % 558 Canada 223 +5 % 212 6 % 227 North American Onshore 921 +5 % 881 +12 % 785 U.S. Offshore 45 22 % 57 25 % 77 Total 966 +3 % 938 +9 % 862 37 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 NGLs (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 25 +9 % 24 +14 % 21 Canada 4 5 % 4 6 % 4 North American Onshore 29 +7 % 28 +11 % 25 U.S. Offshore 1 +27 % 26 % 1 Total 30 +7 % 28 +10 % 26 Total (MMBoe)(1) U.S. Onshore 154 +5 % 146 +17 % 124 Canada 66 +9 % 61 +5 % 58 North American Onshore 220 +6 % 207 +13 % 182 U.S. Offshore 13 18 % 16 25 % 22 Total 233 +4 % 223 +9 % 204 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in the table. The following table presents the prices we realized on our production volumes from 2007 to 2009. These prices exclude any effects due to our oil and gas derivative financial instruments. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 Oil (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 56.17 41 % $ 95.63 +42 % $ 67.34 Canada $ 47.35 33 % $ 71.04 +43 % $ 49.80 North American Onshore $ 50.11 37 % $ 79.45 +39 % $ 56.99 U.S. Offshore $ 60.75 42 % $ 104.90 +46 % $ 71.95 Total $ 51.39 38 % $ 83.35 +38 % $ 60.30 Gas (per Mcf) U.S. Onshore $ 3.14 58 % $ 7.43 +30 % $ 5.69 Canada $ 3.66 55 % $ 8.17 +31 % $ 6.24 North American Onshore $ 3.27 57 % $ 7.61 +30 % $ 5.85 U.S. Offshore $ 4.20 56 % $ 9.53 +33 % $ 7.17 Total $ 3.31 57 % $ 7.73 +29 % $ 5.97 38 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 NGLs (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 23.40 43 % $ 40.97 +14 % $ 36.08 Canada $ 33.09 46 % $ 61.45 +33 % $ 46.07 North American Onshore $ 24.65 44 % $ 43.94 +16 % $ 37.80 U.S. Offshore $ 27.42 46 % $ 51.11 +39 % $ 36.78 Total $ 24.71 44 % $ 44.08 +17 % $ 37.76 Combined (per Boe)(1) U.S. Onshore $ 22.41 53 % $ 47.91 +28 % $ 37.45 Canada $ 32.29 44 % $ 57.65 +39 % $ 41.51 North American Onshore $ 25.38 50 % $ 50.78 +31 % $ 38.74 U.S. Offshore $ 38.83 48 % $ 74.55 +40 % $ 53.30 Total $ 26.15 50 % $ 52.49 +30 % $ 40.26 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in the table. The volume and price changes in the tables above caused the following changes to our oil, gas and NGL sales between 2007 and 2009. Oil Gas NGL Total (In millions) 2007 sales $ 2,117 $ 5,138 $ 970 $ 8,225 Changes due to volumes 222 459 95 776 Changes due to prices 894 1,647 178 2,719 2008 sales 3,233 7,244 1,243 11,720 Changes due to volumes 258 222 89 569 Changes due to prices (1,338 ) (4,269 ) (585 ) (6,192 ) 2009 sales $ 2,153 $ 3,197 $ 747 $ 6,097 Oil Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Oil sales decreased $1.3 billion as a result of a 38% decrease in our realized price without hedges. The average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price decreased 38% during the same time period, accounting for the majority of the decrease in our realized price. Oil sales increased $258 million due to a three million barrel, or 8%, increase in production. The increased production resulted primarily from the continued development of our Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in Canada. 2008 vs. 2007 Oil sales increased $894 million as a result of a 38% increase in our realized price without hedges. The average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price increased 38% during the same time period, accounting for the majority of the increase in our realized price. Oil sales increased $222 million due to a four million barrel, or 10%, increase in production. Production from our Canadian operations increased approximately six million barrels in 2008 as a result of first oil sales 39 Table of Contents at Jackfish and heavy oil development activity at Lloydminster. This increase was partially offset by the deferral of 0.5 million barrels of oil production from our U.S. Offshore properties due to hurricanes. Gas Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Gas sales decreased $4.3 billion as a result of a 57% decrease in our realized price without hedges. This decrease was largely due to decreases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A 28 Bcf, or 3%, increase in production during 2009 caused gas sales to increase by $222 million. Our North American Onshore properties contributed 40 Bcf of higher volumes. This increase included 25 Bcf of higher production in Canada due to a decline in Canadian government royalties, resulting largely from lower gas prices. The remainder of the North American Onshore growth resulted from new drilling and development that exceeded natural production declines, primarily in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas. These increases were partially offset by 12 Bcf of lower production from our U.S. Offshore properties, largely resulting from natural production declines. 2008 vs. 2007 Gas sales increased $1.6 billion as a result of a 29% increase in our realized price without hedges. This increase was largely due to increases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A 76 Bcf, or 9%, increase in production during 2008 caused gas sales to increase by $459 million. Our North American Onshore properties contributed 96 Bcf to our growth as a result of new drilling and development that exceeded natural production declines. This increase was led by our drilling and development program in the Barnett Shale, which contributed 83 Bcf to the gas production increase. This increase and the effect of new drilling and development in our other North American Onshore properties were partially offset by natural production declines and the deferral of seven Bcf of production in our U.S. Offshore properties in 2008 due to hurricanes. NGL Sales 2009 vs. 2008 NGL sales decreased $585 million as a result of a 44% decrease in our realized price without hedges. This decrease was largely due to decreases in the regional index prices upon which our U.S. Onshore NGL sales are based. NGL sales increased $89 million in 2009 due to a two million barrel, or 7%, increase in production. The increase in production is primarily due to drilling and development in the Barnett Shale. 2008 vs. 2007 NGL sales increased $178 million as a result of a 17% increase in our realized price without hedges. This increase was largely due to increases in the regional index prices upon which our U.S. Onshore NGL sales are based. NGL sales increased $95 million in 2008 due to a two million barrel, or 10%, increase in production. The increase in production is primarily due to Barnett Shale drilling and development. 40 Table of Contents Net Gain (Loss) on Oil and Gas Derivative Financial Instruments The following tables provide financial information associated with our oil and gas derivative financial instruments from 2007 to 2009. The first table presents the cash settlements and unrealized gains and losses recognized as components of our revenues. The subsequent tables present our oil, gas and NGL prices with, and without, the effects of the cash settlements from 2007 to 2009. The prices do not include the effects of unrealized gains and losses. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Cash settlement receipts (payments): Gas price collars $ 450 $ (221 ) $ 2 Gas price swaps 55 (203 ) 38 Oil price collars 27 Total cash settlements 505 (397 ) 40 Unrealized (losses) gains on fair value changes: Gas price collars (255 ) 255 (4 ) Gas price swaps 169 (12 ) (22 ) Gas basis swaps 3 Oil price collars (38 ) Total unrealized (losses) gains on fair value changes (121 ) 243 (26 ) Net gain (loss) $ 384 $ (154 ) $ 14 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 51.39 $ 3.31 $ 24.71 $ 26.15 Cash settlements of hedges 0.52 2.16 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 51.39 $ 3.83 $ 24.71 $ 28.31 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 83.35 $ 7.73 $ 44.08 $ 52.49 Cash settlements of hedges 0.70 (0.46 ) (1.78 ) Realized price, including cash settlements $ 84.05 $ 7.27 $ 44.08 $ 50.71 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 60.30 $ 5.97 $ 37.76 $ 40.26 Cash settlements of hedges 0.04 0.20 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 60.30 $ 6.01 $ 37.76 $ 40.46 Our oil and gas derivative financial instruments include price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. For the price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counterparty. For the basis swaps, we receive a fixed differential between two regional gas index prices and pay a variable differential on the same two index prices to the contract counterparty. The price collars set a floor and ceiling price. If the applicable monthly price indices are outside of the ranges set by the 41 Table of Contents floor and ceiling prices in the various collars, we cash settle the difference with the counterparty to the collars. Cash settlements as presented in the tables above represent realized gains or losses related to our price swaps and collars. In addition to recognizing these cash settlement effects, we also recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our oil and gas derivative instruments in each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of our oil and gas derivative financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Based on the amount of volumes subject to our gas price swaps and collars at December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our 2009 unrealized losses for our gas derivative financial instruments by approximately $264 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil derivative financial instruments would have increased our 2009 unrealized losses by approximately $108 million. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. Counterparty credit risk is also a component of commodity derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with numerous counterparties. Our commodity derivative contracts are held with twelve separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2009, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. During 2009, the fair value of our oil and gas derivative financial instruments dropped by $121 million. This reduction largely resulted from the reversal of previously recorded unrealized gains on our gas price collar contracts, which was expected as the contracts settled throughout 2009 and expired on December 31, 2009. This reduction, as well as the reduction related to our oil price collars, were partially offset by unrealized gains on gas swap contracts that we entered into during 2009 and will be settled throughout 2010. During 2008, the fair value of our gas derivative financial instruments increased by $243 million, which was largely due to a decrease in the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve. Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Operating Costs and Expenses The changes in marketing and midstream revenues, operating costs and expenses and the resulting operating profit between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 ($ in millions) Marketing and midstream: Revenues $ 1,534 33 % $ 2,292 +32 % $ 1,736 Operating costs and expenses 1,022 37 % 1,611 +32 % 1,217 Operating profit $ 512 25 % $ 681 +31 % $ 519 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 Marketing and midstream revenues decreased $758 million and operating costs and expenses decreased $589 million, causing operating profit to decrease $169 million. Both revenues and 42 Table of Contents expenses decreased primarily due to lower natural gas and NGL prices, partially offset by higher NGL production and gas pipeline throughput. 2008 vs. 2007 Marketing and midstream revenues increased $556 million and operating costs and expenses increased $394 million, causing operating profit to increase $162 million. Both revenues and expenses increased primarily due to higher natural gas and NGL prices and increased gas pipeline throughput. Lease Operating Expenses (LOE) The changes in LOE between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 Lease operating expenses ($ in millions): U.S. Onshore $ 838 6 % $ 893 +25 % $ 712 Canada 673 13 % 776 +24 % 627 North American Onshore 1,511 10 % 1,669 +25 % 1,339 U.S. Offshore 159 13 % 182 6 % 193 Total $ 1,670 10 % $ 1,851 +21 % $ 1,532 Lease operating expenses per Boe: U.S. Onshore $ 5.46 11 % $ 6.11 +7 % $ 5.70 Canada $ 10.15 20 % $ 12.74 +18 % $ 10.80 North American Onshore $ 6.87 15 % $ 8.06 +10 % $ 7.32 U.S. Offshore $ 11.98 +6 % $ 11.29 +25 % $ 9.04 Total $ 7.16 14 % $ 8.29 +11 % $ 7.50 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 LOE decreased $181 million in 2009. LOE dropped $182 million due to declining costs for fuel, materials, equipment and personnel, as well as declines in maintenance and well workover projects. Such declines largely resulted from decreasing demand for field services due to lower oil and gas prices. Changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar reduced LOE $49 million. Additionally, LOE decreased $31 million as a result of hurricane damages in 2008 to certain of our U.S. Offshore facilities and transportation systems. These factors were also the main contributors to the decrease in LOE per Boe on our North American Onshore properties. Production growth at our large scale Jackfish project also contributed to a decrease in LOE per Boe. As Jackfish production approached the facilitys capacity during 2009, its per unit costs declined, contributing to lower overall LOE per Boe. The remainder of our 4% production growth added $81 million to LOE during 2009. 2008 vs. 2007 LOE increased $319 million in 2008. The largest individual contributor to this increase, as well as the increase in LOE per Boe, was higher per unit costs associated with the new thermal heavy oil production at Jackfish in 2008. When large scale projects such as Jackfish are in the early phases of production, per unit operating costs are normally higher than the per unit costs for our overall portfolio of producing properties. LOE also increased $144 million due to our 9% growth in production. Additionally, LOE increased $31 million due to hurricane damages in 2008 to certain of our U.S. Offshore facilities and transportation systems. These hurricane damages also contributed to the increase in LOE per Boe. 43 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes assessed by various government agencies on our U.S. Onshore properties. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. The following table details the changes in our taxes other than income taxes between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 ($ in millions) Production $ 132 57 % $ 306 +41 % $ 216 Ad valorem 175 +8 % 162 +19 % 135 Other 7 4 % 8 +20 % 7 Total $ 314 34 % $ 476 +33 % $ 358 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 Production taxes decreased $174 million in 2009. This decrease was largely due to lower U.S. Onshore revenues, as well as an increase in tax credits associated with certain properties in the state of Texas. Ad valorem taxes increased $13 million primarily due to higher assessed oil and gas property and equipment values. 2008 vs. 2007 Production taxes increased $90 million in 2008 primarily due to an increase in our U.S. Onshore revenues. Ad valorem taxes increased $27 million primarily due to higher assessed oil and gas property and equipment values. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization of Oil and Gas Properties (DDA) DDA of oil and gas properties is calculated by multiplying the percentage of total proved reserve volumes produced during the year, by the depletable base. The depletable base represents our capitalized investment, net of accumulated DDA and reductions of carrying value, plus future development costs related to proved undeveloped reserves. Generally, when reserve volumes are revised up or down, then the DDA rate per unit of production will change inversely. However, when the depletable base changes, then the DDA rate moves in the same direction. The per unit DDA rate is not affected by production volumes. Absolute or total DDA, as opposed to the rate per unit of production, generally moves in the same direction as production volumes. Oil and gas property DDA is calculated separately on a country by country basis. The changes in our production volumes, DDA rate per unit and DDA of oil and gas properties between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 Total production volumes (MMBoe) 233 +4 % 223 +9 % 204 DDA rate ($ per Boe) $ 7.86 40 % $ 13.20 +12 % $ 11.81 DDA expense ($ in millions) $ 1,832 38 % $ 2,948 +22 % $ 2,412 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 44 Table of Contents The following table details the changes in DDA of oil and gas properties between 2007 and 2009 due to the changes in production volumes and DDA rate presented in the table above. (In millions) 2007 DDA $ 2,412 Change due to volumes 224 Change due to rate 312 2008 DDA 2,948 Change due to volumes 130 Change due to rate (1,246 ) 2009 DDA $ 1,832 2009 vs. 2008 Oil and gas property related DDA decreased $1.2 billion due to a 40% decrease in the DDA rate. The largest contributors to the rate decrease were reductions of the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties recognized in the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008. These reductions totaled $16.3 billion and resulted from full cost ceiling limitations in the United States and Canada. In addition, the effects of changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar also contributed to the rate decrease. These factors were partially offset by the effects of costs incurred and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2009 drilling activities. Partially offsetting the impact from the lower 2009 DDA rate was our 4% production increase, which caused oil and gas property related DDA expense to increase $130 million. Our 2009 DDA rate reflects our adoption of the SECs Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting. The impact of adopting the SECs new rules at the end of 2009 had virtually no impact on our 2009 DDA rate. 2008 vs. 2007 Oil and gas property related DDA increased $312 million due to a 12% increase in the DDA rate. The largest contributor to the rate increase was inflationary pressure on both the costs incurred during 2008 as well as the estimated development costs to be spent in future periods on proved undeveloped reserves. Other factors that contributed to the rate increase were reductions in reserve estimates due to lower 2008 year end commodity prices and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2008 drilling activities. In addition to the impact from the higher 2008 rate, the 9% production increase caused oil and gas property related DDA expense to increase $224 million. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our net GA consists of three primary components. The largest of these components is the gross amount of expenses incurred for personnel costs, office expenses, professional fees and other GA items. The gross amount of these expenses is partially offset by two components. One is the amount of GA capitalized pursuant to the full cost method of accounting related to exploration and development activities. The other is the amount of GA reimbursed by working interest owners of properties for which we serve as the operator. These reimbursements are received during both the drilling and operational stages of a propertys life. The gross amount of GA incurred, less the amounts capitalized and reimbursed, is recorded as net GA in the consolidated statements of operations. Net GA includes expenses related to oil, gas and NGL exploration 45 Table of Contents and production activities, as well as marketing and midstream activities. See the following table for a summary of GA expenses by component. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 ($ in millions) Gross GA $ 1,107 +0 % $ 1,103 +24 % $ 903 Capitalized GA (332 ) 2 % (337 ) +26 % (277 ) Reimbursed GA (127 ) +5 % (121 ) +7 % (113 ) Net GA $ 648 +0 % $ 645 +26 % $ 513 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 Gross GA increased $4 million. This increase was due to approximately $60 million of higher costs for employee compensation and benefits, mostly offset by the effects of our 2009 reduced spending initiatives for certain discretionary cost categories. Employee cost increases in 2009 included an additional $57 million of severance costs. This increase was primarily due to Gulf of Mexico employees that were impacted by the integration of our Gulf of Mexico and International operations into one offshore unit in the second quarter of 2009 and other employee departures during 2009. Additionally, postretirement benefits costs increased approximately $50 million. The increases in employee costs were partially offset by a $27 million decrease due to accelerated share based compensation expense recognized in 2008 as discussed below. 2008 vs. 2007 Gross GA increased $200 million. The largest contributors to the increase were higher employee compensation and benefits costs. These cost increases, which were largely related to our growth and industry inflation during most of 2008, caused gross GA to increase $164 million. Of this increase, $65 million related to higher stock compensation. Stock compensation increased $43 million in 2008 due to a modification of the share based compensation arrangements for certain executives. The modified compensation arrangements provide that executives who meet certain years of service and age criteria can retire and continue vesting in outstanding share based grants. As a condition to receiving the benefits of these modifications, the executives must agree not to use or disclose Devons confidential information and not to solicit Devons employees and customers. The executives are required to agree to these conditions at retirement and again in each subsequent year until all grants have vested. Although this modification does not accelerate the vesting of the executives grants, it does accelerate the expense recognition as executives approach the years of service and age criteria. When the modification was made in 2008, certain executives had already met the years of service and age criteria. As a result, we recognized $27 million of share based compensation expense in the second quarter of 2008 related to this modification. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recognized an additional $16 million of stock compensation for grants made to these executives. The additional expenses would have been recognized in future reporting periods if the modification had not been made and the executives continued their employment at Devon. The higher employee compensation and benefits costs, exclusive of the accelerated stock compensation expense, were also the primary factors that caused the $60 million increase in capitalized GA in 2008. Restructuring Costs In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recognized $153 million of estimated employee severance costs associated with the planned divestitures of our offshore assets that was announced in November 2009. This amount was based on our estimates of the number of employees that will ultimately be impacted by the divestitures, and includes $63 million related to accelerated vesting of share based grants. Of the $153 million 46 Table of Contents total, $105 million relates to our U.S. Offshore operations and the remainder relates to our International discontinued operations. As of the date of this report, only one of the properties we intend to sell had actually been sold. Furthermore, the vast majority of employees will not be impacted by the divestitures until the properties are sold. Therefore, our estimate of employee severance costs recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009 was based upon certain key estimates that could change as properties are sold. These estimates include the number of impacted employees, the number of employees offered comparable positions with the buyers and the date of separation for impacted employees. If our estimate of the number of impacted employees were to increase 10%, our estimate of employee severance costs would increase approximately $10 million. If our estimate of the number of employees offered comparable positions with the buyers were to decrease by 10%, our estimate of employee severance costs would increase approximately $15 million. Additionally, if the date of separation were to occur one month after our current estimates, our estimate of employee severance costs would increase approximately $2 million. Interest Expense The following table includes the components of interest expense between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Interest based on debt outstanding $ 437 $ 426 $ 508 Capitalized interest (94 ) (111 ) (102 ) Other 6 14 24 Total interest expense $ 349 $ 329 $ 430 2009 vs. 2008 Interest based on debt outstanding increased $11 million from 2008 to 2009. This increase was primarily due to interest paid on the $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes that we issued in January 2009. This was partially offset by lower interest resulting from the retirement of our exchangeable debentures during the third quarter of 2008 and lower interest rates on our floating rate commercial paper borrowings. Capitalized interest decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to the sales of our West African exploration and development properties in 2008 and the completion of the Access pipeline transportation system in Canada in the second quarter of 2008. 2008 vs. 2007 Interest based on debt outstanding decreased $82 million from 2007 to 2008. This decrease was largely due to lower average outstanding amounts for commercial paper and credit facility borrowings in 2008 than in 2007. The decrease in borrowings resulted largely from the use of proceeds from our West African divestiture program and cash flow from operations to repay all commercial paper and credit facility borrowings in the second quarter of 2008. Additionally, we retired debentures with a face value of $652 million during 2008, primarily during the third quarter. Capitalized interest increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to higher cumulative costs related to large scale development projects in the Gulf of Mexico, partially offset by lower capitalized interest resulting from the completion of the Access pipeline in the second quarter of 2008. 47 Table of Contents Change in Fair Value of Other Financial Instruments The details of the changes in fair value of other financial instruments between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) (Gains) losses from: Interest rate swaps fair value changes $ (66 ) $ (104 ) $ (1 ) Interest rate swaps settlements (40 ) (1 ) Chevron common stock 363 (281 ) Option embedded in exchangeable debentures (109 ) 248 Total $ (106 ) $ 149 $ (34 ) Interest Rate Swaps We recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. In 2009 and 2008, we recorded unrealized gains of $66 million and $104 million, respectively, as a result of changes in interest rates. Also, during 2009 and 2008, we received cash settlements totaling $40 million and $1 million, respectively, from counterparties to settle our interest rate swaps. There were no cash settlements in 2007. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by a third party. Based on the notional amount subject to the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our 2009 unrealized gain for our interest rate swaps by approximately $46 million. Similar to our commodity derivative contracts, counterparty credit risk is also a component of interest rate derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with several counterparties. Our interest rate derivative contracts are held with seven separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. The credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade as of December 31, 2009. Chevron Common Stock and Related Embedded Option Until October 31, 2008, we owned 14.2 million shares of Chevron common stock and recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of this investment. On October 31, 2008, we exchanged these shares of Chevron common stock for Chevrons interest in the Drunkards Wash properties located in east central Utah and $280 million in cash. In accordance with the terms of the exchange, the fair value of our investment in the Chevron shares was estimated to be $67.71 per share on the exchange date. Prior to the exchange of these shares, we calculated the fair value of our investment in Chevron common stock using Chevrons published market price. We also recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of the conversion option embedded in the debentures exchangeable into shares of Chevron common stock. The embedded option was not actively traded in an established market. Therefore, we estimated its fair value using quotes obtained from a broker for trades occurring near the valuation date. 48 Table of Contents The loss during 2008 on our investment in Chevron common stock was directly attributable to a $25.62 per share decrease in the estimated fair value while we owned Chevrons common stock during the year. The gain on the embedded option during 2008 was directly attributable to the change in fair value of the Chevron common stock from January 1, 2008 to the maturity date of August 15, 2008. The gain on our investment in Chevron common stock and loss on the embedded option during 2007 were directly attributable to a $19.80 increase in the price per share of Chevrons common stock during 2007. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties During 2009 and 2008, we reduced the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties due to full cost ceiling limitations. A summary of these reductions and additional discussion is provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Net of Net of Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) United States $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 6,538 $ 4,168 Canada 3,353 2,488 Total $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 9,891 $ 6,656 The 2009 reduction was recognized in the first quarter and the 2008 reductions were recognized in the fourth quarter. The reductions resulted from significant decreases in each countrys full cost ceiling compared to the immediately preceding quarter. The lower United States ceiling value in the first quarter of 2009 largely resulted from the effects of declining natural gas prices subsequent to December 31, 2008. The lower ceiling values in the fourth quarter of 2008 largely resulted from the effects of sharp declines in oil, gas and NGL prices compared to September 30, 2008. To demonstrate these declines, the March 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008 weighted average wellhead prices are presented in the following table. March 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 September 30, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Country (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) United States $ 47.30 $ 2.67 $ 17.04 $ 42.21 $ 4.68 $ 16.16 $ 97.62 $ 5.28 $ 38.00 Canada N/A N/A N/A $ 23.23 $ 5.31 $ 20.89 $ 59.72 $ 6.00 $ 62.78 N/A Not applicable. The March 31, 2009 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $49.66 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $3.63 per MMBtu for gas. The December 31, 2008 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $44.60 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $5.71 per MMBtu for gas. The September 30, 2008, wellhead prices in the table compare to the NYMEX cash price of $100.64 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $7.12 per MMBtu for gas. 49 Table of Contents Other Income The following table includes the components of other income between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Interest and dividend income $ 8 $ 54 $ 48 Reduction of deep water royalties 84 Hurricane insurance proceeds 162 Other (24 ) 1 3 Total $ 68 $ 217 $ 51 Interest and dividend income decreased from 2008 to 2009 due to a decrease in dividends received on our previously owned investment in Chevron common stock and a decrease in interest received on cash equivalents due to lower rates and balances. Interest and dividend income increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to higher cash balances partially offset by lower interest rates and a decrease in dividends received on our investment in Chevron common stock. In 1995, the United States Congress passed the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act. The intent of this legislation was to encourage deep water exploration in the Gulf of Mexico by providing relief from the obligation to pay royalties on certain federal leases. Deep water leases issued in certain years by the Minerals Management Service (the MMS) have contained price thresholds, such that if the market prices for oil or gas exceeded the thresholds for a given year, royalty relief would not be granted for that year. In October 2007, a federal district court ruled in favor of a plaintiff who had challenged the legality of including price thresholds in deep water leases. Additionally, in January 2009 a federal appellate court upheld this district court ruling. This judgment was later appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which, in October 2009, declined to review the appellate courts ruling. The Supreme Courts decision ended the MMSs judicial course to enforce the price thresholds. Prior to September 30, 2009, we had $84 million accrued for potential royalties on various deep water leases. Based upon the Supreme Courts decision, we reduced to zero the $84 million loss contingency accrual in the third quarter of 2009. In 2008, we recognized $162 million of excess insurance recoveries for damages suffered in 2005 related to hurricanes that struck the Gulf of Mexico. The excess recoveries resulted from business interruption claims on policies that were in effect when the 2005 hurricanes occurred. 50 Table of Contents Income Taxes The following table presents our total income tax (benefit) expense related to continuing operations and a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate to the U.S. statutory income tax rate for each of the past three years. The primary factors causing our effective rates to vary from 2007 to 2009, and differ from the U.S. statutory rate, are discussed below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Total income tax (benefit) expense (In millions) $ (1,773 ) $ (1,121 ) $ 842 U.S. statutory income tax rate (35 )% (35 )% 35 % State income taxes (2 )% (1 )% 1 % Taxation on Canadian operations (1 )% 5 % Repatriations and tax policy election changes 7 % Canadian statutory rate reduction (8 )% Other (1 )% (3 )% (3 )% Effective income tax (benefit) expense rate (39 )% (27 )% 25 % For 2008, our effective income tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory income tax rate largely due to two related factors. First, during 2008, we repatriated $2.6 billion from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Second, we made certain tax policy election changes in the second quarter of 2008 to minimize the taxes we otherwise would pay for the cash repatriations, as well as the taxable gains associated with the sales of assets in West Africa. As a result of the repatriation and tax policy election changes, we recognized additional tax expense of $312 million during 2008. Of the $312 million, $295 million was recognized as current income tax expense, and $17 million was recognized as deferred tax expense. Excluding the $312 million of additional tax expense, our effective income tax benefit rate would have been 34% for 2008. In 2007, deferred income taxes were reduced $261 million due to a Canadian statutory rate reduction that was enacted in that year. Earnings From Discontinued Operations For all years presented in the following tables, our discontinued operations include amounts related to our assets in Azerbaijan, Brazil, China and other minor International properties that we are in the process of divesting. Additionally, during 2007 and 2008, our discontinued operations included amounts related to our assets in Egypt and West Africa, including Equatorial Guinea, Cote dIvoire, Gabon and other countries in the 51 Table of Contents region until they were sold. Following are the components of earnings from discontinued operations between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Total production (MMBoe) 16 18 32 Combined price without hedges (per Boe) $ 59.25 $ 92.72 $ 68.11 (In millions) Operating revenues $ 945 $ 1,702 $ 2,168 Expenses and other income, net: Operating expenses 484 769 597 Restructuring costs 48 Reduction of carrying value of oil and gas properties 108 494 68 Gain on sale of oil and gas properties (17 ) (819 ) (90 ) Total expenses and other income, net 623 444 575 Earnings before income taxes 322 1,258 1,593 Income tax expense 48 367 472 Earnings from discontinued operations $ 274 $ 891 $ 1,121 Our African sales generated total proceeds of $3.0 billion. The following table presents the gains on the African divestiture transactions by year. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net of Net of Net of Gross Taxes Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) Egypt $ $ $ $ $ 90 $ 90 Equatorial Guinea 619 544 Gabon 117 122 Cote dIvoire 17 17 83 95 Other 8 Total $ 17 $ 17 $ 819 $ 769 $ 90 $ 90 2009 vs. 2008 Earnings from discontinued operations decreased $617 million in 2009. Our discontinued earnings were impacted by several factors. First, operating revenues declined largely due to a 36% decrease in the price realized on our production, which was driven by a decline in crude oil index prices. Second, both operating revenues and expenses declined due to divestitures that closed in 2008. Discontinued earnings also decreased due to $48 million of restructuring costs that relate to our planned divestitures and were recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009. These costs consist of employee severance costs. Earnings also decreased $752 million in 2009 due to larger gains recognized on West African asset divestitures in 2008. Partially offsetting these decreased earnings in 2009 was the larger reduction of carrying value recognized in 2008 compared to 2009. The reductions largely consisted of full cost ceiling limitations related to our assets in Brazil that were caused by a decline in oil prices. 2008 vs. 2007 Earnings from discontinued operations decreased $230 million in 2008. Our earnings were impacted by several factors. First, operating revenues and expenses, including the related production volumes, decreased largely due to the timing of our 2008 and 2007 divestitures, partially offset by the effects of first production in Brazil. Discontinued earnings also decreased due to the net effect of reductions in carrying value recognized in 2008 and 2007, which largely related to our assets in Brazil. Discontinued earnings increased $679 million in 2008 due to the larger African divestiture gains in 2008. 52 Table of Contents Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity The following discussion of capital resources, uses and liquidity should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Sources and Uses of Cash The following table presents the sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents from 2007 to 2009. The table presents capital expenditures on a cash basis. Therefore, these amounts differ from capital expenditure amounts that include accruals and are referred to elsewhere in this document. Additional discussion of these items follows the table. 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Sources of cash and cash equivalents: Operating cash flow continuing operations $ 4,232 $ 8,448 $ 5,308 Sales of property and equipment 34 117 76 Net credit facility borrowings 1,450 Net commercial paper borrowings 1,431 1 Proceeds from debt issuance, net of commercial paper repayments 182 Net decrease in investments 7 250 202 Stock option exercises 42 116 91 Proceeds from exchange of Chevron stock 280 Cash distributed from discontinued operations 1,898 Other 8 59 43 Total sources of cash and cash equivalents 5,936 11,169 7,170 Uses of cash and cash equivalents: Capital expenditures (4,879 ) (8,843 ) (5,709 ) Net credit facility repayments (1,450 ) Net commercial paper repayments (804 ) Debt repayments (178 ) (1,031 ) (567 ) Repurchases of common stock (665 ) (326 ) Redemption of preferred stock (150 ) Dividends (284 ) (289 ) (259 ) Other (17 ) Total uses of cash and cash equivalents (5,358 ) (12,428 ) (7,665 ) Increase (decrease) from continuing operations 578 (1,259 ) (495 ) Increase from discontinued operations, net of distributions to continuing operations 6 386 1,061 Effect of foreign exchange rates 43 (116 ) 51 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 627 $ (989 ) $ 617 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,011 $ 384 $ 1,373 Short term investments at end of year $ $ $ 372 53 Table of Contents Operating Cash Flow Continuing Operations Net cash provided by operating activities (operating cash flow) continued to be our primary source of capital and liquidity in 2009. Changes in operating cash flow from our continuing operations are largely due to the same factors that affect our net earnings, with the exception of those earnings changes due to such noncash expenses as DDA, financial instrument fair value changes, property impairments and deferred income taxes. As a result, our operating cash flow decreased 50% during 2009 primarily due to the significant decrease in oil, gas and NGL sales, net of commodity hedge settlements, as discussed in the Results of Operations section of this report. During 2009, our operating cash flow funded approximately 87% of our cash payments for capital expenditures. Commercial paper borrowings were used to fund the remainder of our cash based capital expenditures. During 2008 and 2007 our capital expenditures were primarily funded by our operating cash flow and pre existing cash balances. Other Sources of Cash Continuing and Discontinued Operations As needed, we supplement our operating cash flow with cash on hand and access to our available credit under our credit facilities and commercial paper program. We may also issue long term debt to supplement our operating cash flow while maintaining adequate liquidity under our credit facilities. Additionally, we sometimes acquire short term investments to maximize our income on available cash balances. As needed, we may reduce our investment balances to further supplement our operating cash flow. In January 2009, we issued $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2014 and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2019. The net proceeds received of $1.187 billion, after discounts and issuance costs, were used primarily to repay Devons $1.005 billion of outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to the $1.0 billion commercial paper repayment in January 2009, we utilized additional commercial paper borrowings of $1.4 billion to fund capital expenditure and dividend payments in excess of our operating cash flow during 2009. During 2008, we reduced our short term investment balances by $250 million. We also received $280 million from the exchange of our investment in Chevron common stock, $117 million from the sale of non oil and gas property and equipment and $116 million from stock option exercises. Another significant source of cash was our African divestiture program. In 2008, we received $2.6 billion in proceeds ($1.9 billion net of income taxes and purchase price adjustments) from sales of assets located in Equatorial Guinea and other West African countries. Also, in conjunction with these asset sales, we repatriated an additional $2.6 billion of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. We used these combined sources of cash in 2008 to fund debt repayments, common stock repurchases, redemptions of preferred stock and dividends on common and preferred stock. During 2007, we borrowed $1.5 billion under our unsecured revolving line of credit and reduced our short term investment balances by $202 million. We also received $341 million of proceeds from the sale of our Egyptian operations. These sources of cash were used primarily to fund net commercial paper repayments, long term debt repayments, common stock repurchases and dividends on common and preferred stock. 54 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures Following are the components of our capital expenditures for the years ended 2009, 2008 and 2007. The amounts in the table below reflect cash payments for capital expenditures, including cash paid for capital expenditures incurred. Capital expenditures actually incurred during 2009, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $4.7 billion, $10.0 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively. 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) U.S. Onshore $ 2,413 $ 5,606 $ 3,280 Canada 1,064 1,459 1,232 North American Onshore 3,477 7,065 4,512 U.S. Offshore 845 1,157 687 Total exploration and development 4,322 8,222 5,199 Midstream 323 451 370 Other 234 170 141 Total continuing operations $ 4,879 $ 8,843 $ 5,710 Our capital expenditures consist of amounts related to our oil and gas exploration and development operations, our midstream operations and other corporate activities. The vast majority of our capital expenditures are for the acquisition, drilling or development of oil and gas properties, which totaled $4.3 billion, $8.2 billion and $5.2 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in capital expenditures from 2008 to 2009 was due to decreased drilling activities in most of our operating areas in response to lower commodity prices in 2009 compared to recent years. The 2008 capital expenditures include $2.6 billion related to acquisitions of properties in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Canada. Excluding the effect of the 2008 acquisitions, the increase in capital expenditures from 2007 to 2008 was due to increased drilling activities in the Barnett Shale, Gulf of Mexico, Carthage, Groesbeck and Washakie areas of the United States and the Lloydminster and Jackfish projects in Canada. Expenditures in the first half of 2008 also increased due to inflationary pressure driven by increased competition for field services. Our capital expenditures for our midstream operations are primarily for the construction and expansion of natural gas processing plants, natural gas pipeline systems and oil pipelines. These midstream facilities exist primarily to support our oil and gas development operations. The majority of our midstream expenditures from 2007 to 2009 were related to development activities in the Barnett Shale, the Arkoma Woodford Shale in southeastern Oklahoma, the Cana Woodford Shale in western Oklahoma and Jackfish in Canada. Net Repayments of Debt Debt repayments in 2009 include the retirement of $177 million of 10.125% notes upon maturity in the fourth quarter. During 2008, we repaid $1.5 billion in outstanding credit facility borrowings primarily with proceeds received from the sales of assets under our African divestiture program. Also during 2008, virtually all holders of exchangeable debentures exercised their option to exchange their debentures for shares of Chevron common stock owned by us. The debentures matured on August 15, 2008. In lieu of delivering our shares of Chevron common stock, we exercised our option to pay the exchanging debenture holders cash totaling $1.0 billion. This amount included the retirement of debentures with a book value of $652 million and a $379 million payment of the related embedded derivative option. During 2007, we repaid the $400 million 4.375% notes, which matured on October 1, 2007. Also during 2007, certain holders of exchangeable debentures exercised their option to exchange their debentures for shares of Chevron common stock prior to the debentures August 15, 2008 maturity date. In lieu of delivering shares of Chevron common stock, we exercised our option to pay the exchanging debenture holders an amount of cash equal to the market value of Chevron common stock. We paid $167 million in cash to exchangeable 55 Table of Contents debenture holders who exercised their exchange rights. This amount included the retirement of debentures with a book value of $105 million and a $62 million payment of the related embedded derivative option. Repurchases of Common Stock During 2008 and 2007, we repurchased 10.6 million shares at a total cost of $1.0 billion, or an average of $93.76 per share, under approved repurchase programs. No shares were repurchased in 2009. The following table summarizes our repurchases under approved plans during 2008 and 2007 (amounts and shares in millions). Both programs expired on December 31, 2009. 2008 2007 Repurchase Program Amount Shares Per Share Amount Shares Per Share Annual program $ 178 2.0 $ 87.83 $ $ 2007 program 487 4.5 $ 109.25 326 4.1 $ 79.80 Totals $ 665 6.5 $ 102.56 $ 326 4.1 $ 79.80 Redemption of Preferred Stock On June 20, 2008, we redeemed all 1.5 million outstanding shares of our 6.49% Series A cumulative preferred stock. Each share of preferred stock was redeemed for cash at a redemption price of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends up to the redemption date. Dividends Our common stock dividends were $284 million (or a quarterly rate of $0.16 per share) in both 2009 and 2008, and $249 million (or a quarterly rate of $0.14) in 2007. Common dividends increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to the higher quarterly dividend rates. We also paid $5 million of preferred stock dividends in 2008 and $10 million of preferred stock dividends in 2007. The decrease in the preferred dividends in 2008 was due to the redemption of our preferred stock in the second quarter of 2008. Liquidity Historically, our primary source of capital and liquidity has been operating cash flow. Additionally, we maintain revolving lines of credit and a commercial paper program, which can be accessed as needed to supplement operating cash flow. Other available sources of capital and liquidity include the issuance of equity securities, as well as our automatically effective registration statement on Form S 3ASR filed with the SEC. This registration statement can be used to offer short term and long term debt securities. In 2010, another major source of liquidity will be proceeds from the sales of our offshore operations, which we estimate will range from $4.5 billion to $7.5 billion after taxes. We expect the combination of these sources of capital will be adequate to fund future capital expenditures, debt repayments and other contractual commitments as discussed later in this section. Operating Cash Flow Our operating cash flow is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is pricing of the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. Due to sharp declines in commodity prices, our operating cash flow decreased approximately 50% to $4.7 billion in 2009 as compared to 2008. In spite of the recent commodity price declines, we expect operating cash flow will continue to be a primary source of liquidity, and we will need to manage our capital expenditures and other cash uses accordingly. However, as a result of depressed commodity prices, debt borrowings have been a significant source of liquidity during 2009. During 2009, our net borrowings of long term debt and commercial paper totaled $1.6 billion. We anticipate utilizing commercial paper borrowings as needed to supplement operating cash flow in 2010. As the offshore divestiture transactions close, we anticipate using a portion of the proceeds to repay our commercial paper borrowings. 56 Table of Contents Commodity Prices Prices for oil, gas and NGLs are determined primarily by prevailing market conditions. Regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other substantially variable factors influence market conditions for these products. These factors, which are difficult to predict, create volatility in oil, gas and NGL prices and are beyond our control. We expect this volatility to continue throughout 2010. To mitigate some of the risk inherent in prices, we have utilized various price swap, fixed price physical delivery and price collar contracts to set minimum and maximum prices on our 2010 production. As of February 15, 2010 approximately 65% of our estimated 2010 oil production is subject to price collars and approximately 54% of our estimated 2010 gas production is subject to price collars, price swaps and fixed price physicals. We also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2010 gas production. Commodity prices can also affect our operating cash flow through an indirect effect on operating expenses. Significant commodity price increases, as experienced in recent years, can lead to an increase in drilling and development activities. As a result, the demand and cost for people, services, equipment and materials may also increase, causing a negative impact on our cash flow. However, the inverse is also true during periods of depressed commodity prices such as what we are currently experiencing. Interest Rates Our operating cash flow can also be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. As of February 15, 2010, we had total debt of $7.1 billion with an overall weighted average borrowing rate of 5.93%. To manage our exposure to interest rate volatility, we have interest rate swap instruments with a total notional amount of $1.85 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect, based upon us paying a fixed rate and receiving a floating rate. Including the effects of these swaps, the weighted average interest rate related to our fixed rate debt was 5.36% as of February 15, 2010. Credit Losses Our operating cash flow is also exposed to credit risk in a variety of ways. We are exposed to the credit risk of the customers who purchase our oil, gas and NGL production. We are also exposed to credit risk related to the collection of receivables from our joint interest partners for their proportionate share of expenditures made on projects we operate. We are also exposed to the credit risk of counterparties to our derivative financial contracts as discussed previously in this report. The recent deterioration of the global financial and capital markets, combined with the drop in commodity prices, has increased our credit risk exposure. However, we utilize a variety of mechanisms to limit our exposure to the credit risks of our customers, partners and counterparties. Such mechanisms include, under certain conditions, posting of letters of credit, prepayment requirements and collateral posting requirements. Credit Availability We have two revolving lines of credit and a commercial paper program which we can access to provide liquidity. We have a $2.65 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving line of credit (the Senior Credit Facility). The maturity date for $2.15 billion of the Senior Credit Facility is April 7, 2013. The maturity date for the remaining $0.5 billion is April 7, 2012. All amounts outstanding will be due and payable on the respective maturity dates unless the maturity is extended. Prior to each April 7 anniversary date, we have the option to extend the maturity of the Senior Credit Facility for one year, subject to the approval of the lenders. The Senior Credit Facility includes a revolving Canadian subfacility in a maximum amount of U.S. $500 million. Amounts borrowed under the Senior Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods of up to twelve months. Such rates are generally less than the prime rate. However, we may elect to borrow at the prime rate. As February 15, 2010, there were no borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility. We also have a $700 million 364 day, syndicated, unsecured revolving senior credit facility (the Short Term Facility) that matures on November 2, 2010. On the maturity date, all amounts outstanding will be due 57 Table of Contents and payable at that time. Amounts borrowed under the Short Term Facility bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods of up to 12 months. Such rates are generally based on LIBOR or the prime rate. As of February 15, 2010, there were no borrowings under the Short Term Facility. We also have access to short term credit under our commercial paper program. Total borrowings under the commercial paper program may not exceed $2.85 billion. Also, any borrowings under the commercial paper program reduce available capacity under the Senior Credit Facility or the Short Term Facility on a dollar for dollar basis. Commercial paper debt generally has a maturity of between one and 90 days, although it can have a maturity of up to 365 days, and bears interest at rates agreed to at the time of the borrowing. The interest rate is based on a standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. As of February 15, 2010, we had $1.3 billion of commercial paper debt outstanding at an average rate of 0.25%. The Senior Credit Facility and Short Term Facility contain only one material financial covenant. This covenant requires our ratio of total funded debt to total capitalization to be less than 65%. The credit agreement contains definitions of total funded debt and total capitalization that include adjustments to the respective amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. Also, total capitalization is adjusted to add back noncash financial writedowns such as full cost ceiling impairments or goodwill impairments. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with this covenant. Our debt to capitalization ratio at December 31, 2009, as calculated pursuant to the terms of the agreement, was 20.5%. Our access to funds from the Senior Credit Facility and Short Term Facility is not restricted under any material adverse effect clauses. It is not uncommon for credit agreements to include such clauses. These clauses can remove the obligation of the banks to fund the credit line if any condition or event would reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on the borrowers financial condition, operations, properties or business considered as a whole, the borrowers ability to make timely debt payments, or the enforceability of material terms of the credit agreement. While our credit facilities include covenants that require us to report a condition or event having a material adverse effect, the obligation of the banks to fund the credit facilities is not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse effect. The following schedule summarizes the capacity of our credit facilities by maturity date, as well as our available capacity as of February 15, 2010 (in millions). Senior Credit Facility: April 7, 2012 maturity $ 500 April 7, 2013 maturity 2,150 Total Senior Credit Facility 2,650 Short Term Facility November 2, 2010 maturity 700 Total credit facilities 3,350 Less: Outstanding credit facility borrowings Outstanding commercial paper borrowings 1,257 Outstanding letters of credit 88 Total available capacity $ 2,005 Debt Ratings We receive debt ratings from the major ratings agencies in the United States. In determining our debt ratings, the agencies consider a number of items including, but not limited to, debt levels, planned asset sales, near term and long term production growth opportunities and capital allocation challenges. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix, and commodity pricing levels are also considered by the rating agencies. Our current debt ratings are BBB+ with a stable outlook by both Fitch and Standard Poors, and Baa1 with a stable outlook by Moodys. 58 Table of Contents There are no rating triggers in any of our contractual obligations that would accelerate scheduled maturities should our debt rating fall below a specified level. Our cost of borrowing under our Senior Credit Facility is predicated on our corporate debt rating. Therefore, even though a ratings downgrade would not accelerate scheduled maturities, it would adversely impact the interest rate on any borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. Under the terms of the Senior Credit Facility, a one notch downgrade would increase the fully drawn borrowing costs from LIBOR plus 35 basis points to a new rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points. A ratings downgrade could also adversely impact our ability to economically access debt markets in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we were not aware of any potential ratings downgrades being contemplated by the rating agencies. Capital Expenditures Our 2010 capital expenditures are expected to range from $6.0 billion to $6.8 billion, including amounts related to our discontinued operations. To a certain degree, the ultimate timing of these capital expenditures is within our control. Therefore, if oil and gas prices fluctuate from current estimates, we could choose to defer a portion of these planned 2010 capital expenditures until later periods, or accelerate capital expenditures planned for periods beyond 2010 to achieve the desired balance between sources and uses of liquidity. The amount and timing of the planned offshore asset divestitures in 2010 could also result in acceleration of capital spending on our North American Onshore opportunities. Based upon current price expectations for 2010 and the commodity hedging contracts we have in place, we anticipate having adequate capital resources to fund our 2010 capital expenditures. Common Stock Repurchase Programs All of our common stock repurchase programs expired on December 31, 2009. None of our programs were extended to 2010. Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009, is provided in the following table. Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) North American Onshore: Debt(1) $ 7,267 $ 1,432 $ 2,110 $ 500 $ 3,225 Interest expense(2) 4,998 406 666 508 3,418 Drilling and facility obligations(3) 1,136 659 395 81 1 Firm transportation agreements(4) 1,939 298 508 419 714 Asset retirement obligations(5) 1,068 44 115 150 759 Lease obligations(6) 347 57 94 49 147 Other(7) 518 129 128 57 204 Total North American Onshore 17,273 3,025 4,016 1,764 8,468 Offshore: Drilling and facility obligations(3) 2,113 955 775 383 Asset retirement obligations(5) 554 51 141 61 301 Lease obligations(6) 602 121 182 176 123 Total Offshore 3,269 1,127 1,098 620 424 Grand Total $ 20,542 $ 4,152 $ 5,114 $ 2,384 $ 8,892 59 Table of Contents (1) Debt amounts represent scheduled maturities of our debt obligations at December 31, 2009, excluding $12 million of net premiums included in the carrying value of debt. (2) Interest expense related to our fixed rate debt represents the scheduled cash payments. Interest related to our variable rate commercial paper borrowings was estimated based upon expected future interest rates as of December 31, 2009. (3) Drilling and facility obligations represent contractual agreements with third party service providers to procure drilling rigs and other related services for developmental and exploratory drilling and facilities construction. Included in the $2.1 billion of offshore obligations is $1.4 billion that relates to long term contracts for three deepwater drilling rigs and certain other contracts for offshore drilling and facility obligations in which drilling or facilities construction has not commenced. The $1.4 billion represents the gross commitment under these contracts. Our ultimate payment for these commitments will be reduced by any amounts billed to our working interest partners until we sell the associated offshore properties. Payments for these commitments, net of amounts billed to partners, will be capitalized as a component of oil and gas properties. Additionally, our commitment under these contracts may be further reduced if the buyers of our offshore assets assume all or a portion of the obligations. If the buyers do not assume these obligations, we will attempt to sublease the rigs to reduce our commitment. However, if the buyers do not assume the obligations and we are not able to sublease the rigs, we would be contractually committed to the amounts related to the remaining lease periods. (4) Firm transportation agreements represent ship or pay arrangements whereby we have committed to ship certain volumes of oil, gas and NGLs for a fixed transportation fee. We have entered into these agreements to aid the movement of our production to market. We expect to have sufficient production to utilize the majority of these transportation services. (5) Asset retirement obligations represent estimated discounted costs for future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation costs. These obligations are recorded as liabilities on our December 31, 2009 balance sheet. (6) Lease obligations consist of operating leases for office space and equipment, an offshore platform spar and FPSOs. Office and equipment leases represent non cancelable leases for office space and equipment used in our daily operations. We have an offshore platform spar that is being used in the development of the Nansen field in the Gulf of Mexico. This spar is subject to a 20 year lease and contains various options whereby we may purchase the lessors interests in the spars. We have guaranteed that the spar will have a residual value at the end of the term equal to at least 10% of the fair value of the spar at the inception of the lease. The total guaranteed value is $14 million in 2022. However, such amount may be reduced under the terms of the lease agreements. In 2005, we sold our interests in the Boomvang field in the Gulf of Mexico, which has a spar lease with terms similar to those of the Nansen lease. As a result of the sale, we are subleasing the Boomvang spar. The table above does not include any amounts related to the Boomvang spar lease. However, if the sublessee were to default on its obligation, we would continue to be obligated to pay the periodic lease payments and any guaranteed value required at the end of the term. We also lease three FPSOs that are related to the Panyu project offshore China, the Polvo project offshore Brazil and the Cascade project offshore the Gulf of Mexico. The Panyu FPSO lease term expires in 2018. The Polvo FPSO lease term expires in 2014. The Cascade FPSO lease term expires in 2015. We expect the eventual buyers of these offshore assets will assume the FPSO leases. However, the amounts in the table reflect our full commitments under the leases. (7) These amounts include $272 million related to uncertain tax positions. Expected pension funding obligations have not been included in this table, but are presented and discussed in the section immediately below. Pension Funding and Estimates Funded Status As compared to the projected benefit obligation, our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $448 million and $501 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 60 Table of Contents respectively. A detailed reconciliation of the 2009 changes to our underfunded status is included in Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Of the $448 million underfunded status at the end of 2009, $215 million is attributable to various nonqualified defined benefit plans that have no plan assets. However, we have established certain trusts to fund the benefit obligations of such nonqualified plans. As of December 31, 2009, these trusts had investments with a fair value of $39 million. The value of these trusts is included in noncurrent other assets in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. As compared to the accumulated benefit obligation, our qualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $164 million at December 31, 2009. The accumulated benefit obligation differs from the projected benefit obligation in that the former includes no assumption about future compensation levels. Our funding policy regarding the qualified defined benefit plans is to contribute the amounts necessary for the plans assets to approximately equal the present value of benefits earned by the participants, as calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Protection Act. While we did have investment gains in 2009, the investment losses experienced during 2008 significantly reduced the value of our plans assets. We estimate we will contribute approximately $25 million to our qualified pension plans during 2010. However, actual contributions may be different than this amount. Our funding policy regarding the nonqualified defined benefit plans is to supplement as needed the amounts accumulated in the related trusts with available cash and cash equivalents. Pension Estimate Assumptions Our pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods and is impacted by funding decisions or requirements. We recognized expense for our defined benefit pension plans of $119 million, $61 million and $41 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We estimate that our pension expense will approximate $85 million in 2010. Should our actual 2010 contributions to qualified and nonqualified plans vary significantly from our current estimate of $34 million, our actual 2010 pension expense could vary from this estimate. The calculation of pension expense and pension liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and actual experience can differ from the assumptions. We believe that the two most critical assumptions affecting pension expense and liabilities are the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. We assumed that our plan assets would generate a long term weighted average rate of return of 7.18% and 8.40% at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We developed these expected long term rate of return assumptions by evaluating input from external consultants and economists as well as long term inflation assumptions. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets is based on a target allocation of investment types in such assets. At December 31, 2009, the target allocations for plan assets were 47.5% for equity securities, 40% for fixed income securities and 12.5% for other investment types. Equity securities consist of investments in large capitalization and small capitalization companies, both domestic and international. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of investment grade companies from diverse industries, United States Treasury obligations and asset backed securities. Other investment types include short term investment funds and a hedge fund of funds. We expect our long term asset allocation on average to approximate the targeted allocation. We regularly review our actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance the investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on plan assets decreases. A decrease in our long term rate of return assumption of 100 basis points would increase the expected 2010 pension expense by $5 million. We discounted our future pension obligations using a weighted average rate of 6.00% at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The discount rate is determined at the end of each year based on the rate at which obligations could be effectively settled, considering the expected timing of future cash flows related to the plans. This rate is based on high quality bond yields, after allowing for call and default risk. We consider high quality corporate bond yield indices, such as Moodys Aa, when selecting the discount rate. 61 Table of Contents The pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 25 basis points would increase our pension liability at December 31, 2009, by $32 million, and increase estimated 2010 pension expense by $4 million. At December 31, 2009, we had net actuarial losses of $334 million, which will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years. These losses are primarily due to investment losses on plan assets in 2008, reductions in the discount rate since 2001 and increases in participant wages. We estimate that approximately $27 million and $23 million of the unrecognized actuarial losses will be included in pension expense in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The $27 million estimated to be recognized in 2010 is a component of the total estimated 2010 pension expense of $85 million referred to earlier in this section. Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our defined benefit pension plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. Contingencies and Legal Matters For a detailed discussion of contingencies and legal matters, see Note 10 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from these estimates, and changes in these estimates are recorded when known. The critical accounting policies used by management in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. Our critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates related to those policies are described below. We have reviewed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Full Cost Ceiling Calculations Policy Description We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. The full cost method subjects companies to quarterly calculations of a ceiling, or limitation on the amount of properties that can be capitalized on the balance sheet. The ceiling limitation is the discounted estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, excluding future cash outflows associated with settling asset retirement obligations included in the net book value of oil and gas properties, plus the cost of properties not subject to amortization. If our net book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes, is in excess of the calculated ceiling, the excess must be written off as an expense. The ceiling limitation is imposed separately for each country in which we have oil and gas properties. An expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher oil and gas prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. Judgments and Assumptions The discounted present value of future net revenues for our proved oil, gas and NGL reserves is a major component of the ceiling calculation, and represents the component that requires the most subjective judgments. Estimates of reserves are forecasts based on engineering data, projected future rates of production and the timing of future expenditures. The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves requires substantial judgment, resulting in imprecise determinations, particularly for new discoveries. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities based on the same data. Certain of our reserve estimates 62 Table of Contents are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants, while other reserve estimates are prepared by our engineers. See Note 22 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of the amount of our reserves that are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants. The passage of time provides more qualitative information regarding estimates of reserves, and revisions are made to prior estimates to reflect updated information. In the past five years, annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates, which have been both increases and decreases in individual years, have averaged less than 2% of the previous years estimate. However, there can be no assurance that more significant revisions will not be necessary in the future. If future significant revisions are necessary that reduce previously estimated reserve quantities, it could result in a full cost property writedown. In addition to the impact of the estimates of proved reserves on the calculation of the ceiling, estimates of proved reserves are also a significant component of the calculation of DDA. While the quantities of proved reserves require substantial judgment, the associated prices of oil, gas and NGL reserves, and the applicable discount rate, that are used to calculate the discounted present value of the reserves do not require judgment. The ceiling calculation dictates that a 10% discount factor be used and future net revenues are calculated using prices that represent the average of the first day of the month price for the 12 month period prior to the end of each quarterly period. Costs included in future net revenues are determined in a similar manner. Therefore, the future net revenues associated with the estimated proved reserves are not based on our assessment of future prices or costs. In calculating the ceiling, we adjust the end of period price by the effect of derivative contracts in place that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. This adjustment requires little judgment as the calculated average price is adjusted using the contract prices for such hedges. None of our outstanding derivative contracts at December 31, 2009 qualified for hedge accounting treatment. Because the ceiling calculation dictates the use of prices that are not representative of future prices and requires a 10% discount factor, the resulting value is not indicative of the true fair value of the reserves. Oil and gas prices have historically been cyclical and, for any particular 12 month period, can be either higher or lower than our long term price forecast, which is a more appropriate input for estimating fair value. Therefore, oil and gas property writedowns that result from applying the full cost ceiling limitation, and that are caused by fluctuations in price as opposed to reductions to the underlying quantities of reserves, should not be viewed as absolute indicators of a reduction of the ultimate value of the related reserves. Because of the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict the timing or magnitude of full cost writedowns. Derivative Financial Instruments Policy Description We periodically enter into derivative financial instruments with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production that hedge the future prices received. These instruments are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil and gas price volatility. Our oil and gas derivative financial instruments include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Additionally, we periodically enter into interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. Under the terms of certain of our interest rate swaps, we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate on a total notional amount. The remainder of our swaps represent forward starting swaps, under which we will pay a fixed rate and receive a floating rate on a total notional amount. All derivative financial instruments are recognized at their current fair value as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments are recorded in the statement of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. If such criteria are met for cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value is recorded directly to accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, until the hedged transaction occurs. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value is recorded in the statement of operations. If such criteria are met for fair value hedges, the change in the fair value is recorded in the statement of operations with an 63 Table of Contents offsetting amount recorded for the change in fair value of the hedged item. Cash settlements with counterparties to our derivative financial instruments also increase or decrease earnings at the time of the settlement. A derivative financial instrument qualifies for hedge accounting treatment if we designate the instrument as such on the date the derivative contract is entered into or the date of a business combination or other transaction that includes derivative contracts. Additionally, we must document the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the instrument. We must also assess, both at the instruments inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivative is highly effective in offsetting the change in cash flow of the hedged item. For derivative financial instruments held during 2009, 2008 and 2007, we chose not to meet the necessary criteria to qualify our derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting treatment. Judgments and Assumptions The estimates of the fair values of our derivative instruments require substantial judgment. We estimate the fair values of our oil and gas derivative financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted using LIBOR and money market futures rates for the first year and money market futures and swap rates thereafter. These pricing and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward prices and regional price differentials. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by third parties. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted using LIBOR and money market futures rates for the first year and money market futures and swap rates thereafter. These yield and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties and or brokers. In spite of the recent turmoil in the financial markets, counterparty credit risk has not had a significant effect on our cash flow calculations and derivative valuations. This is primarily the result of two factors. First, we have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with numerous counterparties. Our commodity derivative contracts are held with twelve separate counterparties, and our interest rate derivative contracts are held with seven separate counterparties. Second, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold for collateral posting decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2009, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. Because we have chosen not to qualify our derivatives for hedge accounting treatment, changes in the fair values of derivatives can have a significant impact on our results of operations. Generally, changes in derivative fair values will not impact our liquidity or capital resources. Settlements of derivative instruments, regardless of whether they qualify for hedge accounting, do have an impact on our liquidity and results of operations. Generally, if actual market prices are higher than the price of the derivative instruments, our net earnings and cash flow from operations will be lower relative to the results 64 Table of Contents that would have occurred absent these instruments. The opposite is also true. Additional information regarding the effects that changes in market prices can have on our derivative financial instruments, net earnings and cash flow from operations is included in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Business Combinations Policy Description From our beginning as a public company in 1988 through 2003, we grew substantially through acquisitions of other oil and gas companies. Most of these acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Current accounting pronouncements require the purchase method to be used to account for any future acquisitions. Under the purchase method, the acquiring company adds to its balance sheet the estimated fair values of the acquired companys assets and liabilities. Any excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the tangible and intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. Judgments and Assumptions There are various assumptions we make in determining the fair values of an acquired companys assets and liabilities. The most significant assumptions, and the ones requiring the most judgment, involve the estimated fair values of the oil and gas properties acquired. To determine the fair values of these properties, we prepare estimates of oil, gas and NGL reserves. These estimates are based on work performed by our engineers and that of outside consultants. The judgments associated with these estimated reserves are described earlier in this section in connection with the full cost ceiling calculation. However, there are factors involved in estimating the fair values of acquired oil, gas and NGL properties that require more judgment than that involved in the full cost ceiling calculation. As stated above, the full cost ceiling calculation dictates the use of prices that are not representative of future prices. By contrast, the fair value of reserves acquired in a business combination must be based on our estimates of future oil, gas and NGL prices. Our estimates of future prices are based on our own analysis of pricing trends. These estimates are based on current data obtained with regard to regional and worldwide supply and demand dynamics such as economic growth forecasts. They are also based on industry data regarding gas storage availability, drilling rig activity, changes in delivery capacity, trends in regional pricing differentials and other fundamental analysis. Forecasts of future prices from independent third parties are noted when we make our pricing estimates. We estimate future prices to apply to the estimated reserve quantities acquired, and estimate future operating and development costs, to arrive at estimates of future net revenues. For estimated proved reserves, the future net revenues are then discounted using a rate determined appropriate at the time of the business combination based upon our cost of capital. We also apply these same general principles to estimate the fair value of unproved properties acquired in a business combination. These unproved properties generally represent the value of probable and possible reserves. Because of their very nature, probable and possible reserve estimates are more imprecise than those of proved reserves. To compensate for the inherent risk of estimating and valuing unproved reserves, the discounted future net revenues of probable and possible reserves are reduced by what we consider to be an appropriate risk weighting factor in each particular instance. It is common for the discounted future net revenues of probable and possible reserves to be reduced by factors ranging from 30% to 80% to arrive at what we consider to be the appropriate fair values. Generally, in our business combinations, the determination of the fair values of oil and gas properties requires much more judgment than the fair values of other assets and liabilities. The acquired companies commonly have long term debt that we assume in the acquisition, and this debt must be recorded at the estimated fair value as if we had issued such debt. However, significant judgment on our behalf is usually not 65 Table of Contents required in these situations due to the existence of comparable market values of debt issued by peer companies. Except for the 2002 acquisition of Mitchell Energy Development Corp., our mergers and acquisitions have involved other entities whose operations were predominantly in the area of exploration, development and production activities related to oil and gas properties. However, in addition to exploration, development and production activities, Mitchells business also included substantial marketing and midstream activities. Therefore, a portion of the Mitchell purchase price was allocated to the fair value of Mitchells marketing and midstream facilities and equipment. This consisted primarily of natural gas processing plants and natural gas pipeline systems. The Mitchell midstream assets primarily serve gas producing properties that we also acquired from Mitchell. Therefore, certain of the assumptions regarding future operations of the gas producing properties were also integral to the value of the midstream assets. For example, future quantities of gas estimated to be processed by natural gas processing plants were based on the same estimates used to value the proved and unproved gas producing properties. Future expected prices for marketing and midstream product sales were also based on price cases consistent with those used to value the oil and gas producing assets acquired from Mitchell. Based on historical costs and known trends and commitments, we also estimated future operating and capital costs of the marketing and midstream assets to arrive at estimated future cash flows. These cash flows were discounted at rates consistent with those used to discount future net cash flows from oil and gas producing assets to arrive at our estimated fair value of the marketing and midstream facilities and equipment. In addition to the valuation methods described above, we perform other quantitative analyses to support the indicated value in any business combination. These analyses include information related to comparable companies, comparable transactions and premiums paid. In a comparable companies analysis, we review the public stock market trading multiples for selected publicly traded independent exploration and production companies with comparable financial and operating characteristics. Such characteristics are market capitalization, location of proved reserves and the characterization of those reserves that we deem to be similar to those of the party to the proposed business combination. We compare these comparable company multiples to the proposed business combination company multiples for reasonableness. In a comparable transactions analysis, we review certain acquisition multiples for selected independent exploration and production company transactions and oil and gas asset packages announced recently. We compare these comparable transaction multiples to the proposed business combination transaction multiples for reasonableness. In a premiums paid analysis, we use a sample of selected independent exploration and production company transactions in addition to selected transactions of all publicly traded companies announced recently, to review the premiums paid to the price of the target one day, one week and one month prior to the announcement of the transaction. We use this information to determine the mean and median premiums paid and compare them to the proposed business combination premium for reasonableness. While these estimates of fair value for the various assets acquired and liabilities assumed have no effect on our liquidity or capital resources, they can have an effect on the future results of operations. Generally, the higher the fair value assigned to both the oil and gas properties and non oil and gas properties, the lower future net earnings will be as a result of higher future depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. Also, a higher fair value assigned to the oil and gas properties, based on higher future estimates of oil and gas prices, will increase the likelihood of a full cost ceiling writedown in the event that subsequent oil and gas prices drop below our price forecast that was used to originally determine fair value. A full cost ceiling writedown would have no effect on our liquidity or capital resources in that period because it is a noncash charge, but it would adversely affect results of operations. As discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity, in calculating our debt to capitalization ratio under our credit agreement, total capitalization is adjusted to add back noncash financial writedowns such as full cost ceiling property impairments or goodwill impairments. 66 Table of Contents Our estimates of reserve quantities are one of the many estimates that are involved in determining the appropriate fair value of the oil and gas properties acquired in a business combination. As previously disclosed in our discussion of the full cost ceiling calculations, during the past five years, our annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates have averaged less than 2%. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, there are numerous estimates in addition to reserve quantity estimates that are involved in determining the fair value of oil and gas properties acquired in a business combination. The inter relationship of these estimates makes it impractical to provide additional quantitative analyses of the effects of changes in these estimates. Valuation of Goodwill Policy Description Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is tested for impairment at least annually. The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to assigned reporting units. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated and compared to the net book value of the reporting unit. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the net book value, including goodwill, then the goodwill is written down to the implied fair value of the goodwill through a charge to expense. Judgments and Assumptions The annual impairment test, which we conduct as of October 31 each year, requires us to estimate the fair values of our own assets and liabilities. Because quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the fair values of the reporting units are estimated in a manner similar to the process described above for a business combination. Therefore, considerable judgment similar to that described above in connection with estimating the fair value of an acquired company in a business combination is also required to assess goodwill for impairment. At October 31, 2009, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units were more than double their related carrying values. This excess largely results from the reductions of carrying value that we recognized in 2008 and 2009 due to full cost ceiling limitations, which are not representative of the fair values of our oil and gas properties. Excluding the effects of these reductions, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units exceeded the carrying values by approximately 40% and 80%, respectively. Generally, the higher the fair value assigned to both the oil and gas properties and non oil and gas properties, the lower goodwill would be. A lower goodwill value decreases the likelihood of an impairment charge. However, unfavorable changes in reserves or in our price forecast would increase the likelihood of a goodwill impairment charge. A goodwill impairment charge would have no effect on liquidity or capital resources. However, it would adversely affect our results of operations in that period. Due to the inter relationship of the various estimates involved in assessing goodwill for impairment, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates, other than to note the historical average changes in our reserve estimates previously set forth. Forward Looking Estimates We are providing our 2010 forward looking estimates in the following discussion. These estimates are based on our examination of historical operating trends, the information used to prepare our December 31, 2009 reserve reports and other data in our possession or available from third parties. The forward looking estimates in this discussion were prepared assuming demand, curtailment, producibility and general market conditions for our oil, gas and NGLs during 2010 will be substantially similar to those that existed in 2009, unless otherwise noted. We make reference to the Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this report. Amounts related to Canadian operations have been converted to U.S. dollars using an estimated average 2010 exchange rate of $0.95 U.S. dollar to $1.00 Canadian dollar. We plan to strategically reposition Devon by divesting our U.S. Offshore and International assets. We have entered into agreements to sell our interests in the Cascade, Jack and St. Malo properties in the Gulf of 67 Table of Contents Mexico. The following estimates assume these transactions close on the expected dates during the first quarter of 2010. Although we expect to complete the remainder of the divestitures throughout 2010, all estimates presented assume the remaining divestitures close at the end of 2010. Operating Items Oil, Gas and NGL Production Set forth below are our estimates of oil, gas and NGL production for 2010. We estimate that our combined oil, gas and NGL production will total approximately 231 to 235 MMBoe. The following estimates for oil, gas and NGL production are calculated at the midpoint of the estimated range for total production. Oil Gas NGLs Total (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) U.S. Onshore 13 692 28 156 Canada 28 204 3 65 North American Onshore 41 896 31 221 U.S. Offshore 4 46 12 Total 45 942 31 233 Oil and Gas Prices We expect our 2010 average prices for the oil and gas production from each of our operating areas to differ from the NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The expected ranges for prices are exclusive of the anticipated effects of the financial contracts presented in the Commodity Price Risk Management section below. The NYMEX price for oil is determined using the monthly average of settled prices on each trading day for benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude oil delivered at Cushing, Oklahoma. The NYMEX price for gas is determined using the first of month South Louisiana Henry Hub price index as published monthly in Inside FERC. Expected Range of Prices as a % of NYMEX Price Oil Gas U.S. Onshore 90% to 100% 75% to 85% Canada 65% to 75% 85% to 95% North American Onshore 72% to 82% 77% to 87% U.S. Offshore 95% to 105% 100% to 110% Commodity Price Risk Management From time to time, we enter into NYMEX related financial commodity collar, price swap and basis swap contracts. Such contracts are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil and gas price volatility. Although these financial contracts do not relate to specific production from our operating areas, they will affect our overall revenues, earnings and cash flow in 2010. As of February 15, 2010, our financial commodity contracts pertaining to 2010 consisted of oil and gas price collars, gas price swaps and gas basis swaps. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 1,265,000 $ 6.16 68 Table of Contents Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year AECO 150,000 $ 0.33 Total year CIG 70,000 $ 0.37 Gas Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) First Quarter 70,000 $ 5.40 $5.40 $ 5.40 $ 6.01 $6.14 $ 6.06 Second Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Third Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Fourth Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Total year 88,836 $ 5.40 $5.50 $ 5.48 $ 6.01 $7.10 $ 6.76 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 79,000 $ 65.00 $70.00 $ 67.47 $ 90.35 $103.30 $ 96.48 To the extent that monthly NYMEX prices or differentials on certain regional indexes in 2010 are outside of the ranges established by the collars or differ from those established by the swaps, we and the counterparties to the contracts will cash settle the difference. Such settlements will either increase or decrease our revenues for the period. Also, we will mark to market the contracts based on their fair values throughout 2010. Changes in the contracts fair values will also be recorded as increases or decreases to our revenues. The expected ranges of our realized prices as a percentage of NYMEX prices, which are presented earlier in this report, do not include any estimates of the impact on our prices from monthly settlements or changes in the fair values of our price collars and swaps. Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Expenses Marketing and midstream revenues and expenses are derived primarily from our gas processing plants and gas pipeline systems. These revenues and expenses vary in response to several factors. The factors include, but are not limited to, changes in production from wells connected to the pipelines and related processing plants, changes in the absolute and relative prices of gas and NGLs, provisions of contractual agreements and the amount of repair and maintenance activity required to maintain anticipated processing levels and pipeline throughput volumes. These factors increase the uncertainty inherent in estimating future marketing and midstream revenues and expenses. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our 2010 marketing and midstream operating profit will be between $450 million and $525 million. We estimate that marketing and midstream revenues will be between $1.850 billion and $2.125 billion, and marketing and midstream expenses will be between $1.400 billion and $1.600 billion. Lease Operating Expenses These expenses, which include transportation costs, vary in response to several factors. Among the most significant of these factors are additions to or deletions from the property base, changes in the general price level of services and materials that are used in the operation of the properties, the amount of repair and workover activity required. Oil, gas and NGL prices also have an effect on lease operating expenses and impact the economic feasibility of planned workover projects. 69 Table of Contents Given these uncertainties, we expect that our 2010 lease operating expenses will be between $1.74 billion and $1.90 billion. This estimated range includes $1.58 billion to $1.72 billion related to our North American Onshore business and $0.16 to $0.18 billion associated with our U.S. Offshore operations. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Our taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes that relate to our U.S. Onshore properties and are assessed by various government agencies. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. Over time, a certain propertys assessed value will increase or decrease due to changes in commodity sales prices, production volumes and proved reserves. Therefore, ad valorem taxes will generally move in the same direction as our oil, gas and NGL sales but in a less predictable manner compared to production taxes. Additionally, both production and ad valorem taxes will increase or decrease due to changes in the rates assessed by the government agencies. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our taxes other than income taxes for 2010 will be between 4.50% and 5.50% of total oil, gas and NGL sales. We estimate our 2010 taxes other than income taxes for our North American Onshore operations will range from 4.75% to 5.75% of revenues. We estimate the U.S. Offshore rates will range from 1.00% to 2.00% of revenues. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DDA) Our 2010 oil and gas property DDA rate will depend on various factors. Most notable among such factors are the amount of proved reserves that will be added from drilling or acquisition efforts in 2010 compared to the costs incurred for such efforts, revisions to our year end 2009 reserve estimates that, based on prior experience, are likely to be made during 2010, as well as reductions of carrying value resulting from full cost ceiling tests. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our oil and gas property related DDA rate will be between $7.60 per Boe and $8.10 per Boe. Based on these DDA rates and the production estimates set forth earlier, oil and gas property related DDA expense for 2010 is expected to be between $1.77 billion and $1.89 billion. For our North American Onshore assets, we estimate the DDA rate will range from $7.65 to $8.15 per Boe, resulting in estimated DDA expense of $1.69 billion to $1.80 billion. Our U.S. Offshore DDA rate is estimated to be between $6.75 and $7.25 per Boe, resulting in estimated DDA expense of $0.08 billion to $0.09 billion. Additionally, we expect that our depreciation and amortization expense related to non oil and gas property fixed assets will total between $270 million and $300 million in 2010. This estimate relates entirely to our North American Onshore assets. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligation Accretion of asset retirement obligation in 2010 is expected to be between $95 million and $105 million. This estimated range includes $70 million to $80 million related to our North American Onshore business and $25 million associated with our U.S. Offshore operations. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our GA includes employee compensation and benefits costs and the costs of many different goods and services used in support of our business. GA varies with the level of our operating activities and the related staffing and professional services requirements. In addition, employee compensation and benefits costs vary due to various market factors that affect the level and type of compensation and benefits offered to employees. Also, goods and services are subject to general price level increases or decreases. Therefore, significant 70 Table of Contents variances in any of these factors from current expectations could cause actual GA to vary materially from the estimate. Given these limitations, we estimate our GA for 2010 will be between $580 million and $620 million. This estimate includes approximately $115 million of non cash, share based compensation, net of related capitalization in accordance with the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Restructuring Costs In conjunction with the planned 2010 asset divestitures, we estimate we will incur certain one time restructuring costs totaling between $203 million and $273 million. Such costs estimates consist of employee severance and termination costs, contract termination costs and other associated costs. We recognized $153 million of employee severance costs during the fourth quarter of 2009. We expect the majority of the remaining restructuring costs, including any revisions to the fourth quarter 2009 employee severance costs, will be recognized during 2010. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties Due to the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict whether we will incur full cost writedowns in 2010. Interest Expense Future interest rates and debt outstanding have a significant effect on our interest expense. We can only marginally influence the prices we will receive in 2010 from sales of oil, gas and NGLs and the resulting cash flow. This increases the margin of error inherent in estimating future outstanding debt balances and related interest expense. Other factors that affect outstanding debt balances and related interest expense, such as the amount and timing of capital expenditures are generally within our control. As of February 15, 2010, we had total debt of $7.1 billion. This included $5.8 billion of fixed rate debt and $1.3 billion of variable rate commercial paper borrowings. The fixed rate debt bears interest at an overall weighted average rate of 7.2%. The commercial paper borrowings bear interest at variable rates based on a standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. As of February 15, 2010, the weighted average variable rate for our commercial paper borrowings was 0.25%. Additionally, any future borrowings under our credit facilities would bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods up to twelve months and are generally less than the prime rate. Based on the factors above, we expect our 2010 interest expense to be between $325 million and $365 million. The estimated interest expense is exclusive of the anticipated effects of the interest rate swap contracts presented in the Interest Rate Risk Management section below. The 2010 interest expense estimate above is comprised of three primary components interest related to outstanding debt, fees and issuance costs, and capitalized interest. We expect the interest expense in 2010 related to our fixed rate and floating rate debt, including net accretion of related discounts, to be between $395 million and $435 million. We expect the interest expense in 2010 related to facility and agency fees, amortization of debt issuance costs and other miscellaneous items not related to outstanding debt balances to be between $10 million and $20 million. We also expect to capitalize between $80 million and $90 million of interest during 2010. Interest Rate Risk Management From time to time, we enter into interest rate swaps. Such contracts are used to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. 71 Table of Contents As of February 15, 2010, our interest rate swaps pertaining to 2010 consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following table. Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 $ 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 $ 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 $ 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Income Taxes Our financial income tax rate in 2010 will vary materially depending on the actual amount of financial pre tax earnings. The tax rate for 2010 will be significantly affected by the proportional share of consolidated pre tax earnings generated by our United States and Canadian operations due to the different tax rates of each country. Also, certain tax deductions and credits will have a fixed impact on 2010 income tax expense regardless of the level of pre tax earnings that are produced. Additionally, significant changes in estimated capital expenditures, production levels of oil, gas and NGLs, the prices of such products, marketing and midstream revenues, or any of the various expense items could materially alter the effect of these tax deductions and credits on 2010 financial income tax rates. Given the uncertainty of pre tax earnings, we expect that our total financial income tax rate in 2010 will be between 20% and 40%. The current income tax rate is expected to be between 10% and 20%. The deferred income tax rate is expected to be between 10% and 20%. These ranges do not include the impact of current and deferred income taxes that will be recognized upon the completion of the 2010 asset divestitures. Discontinued Operations The following table shows the estimates for 2010 production, pricing, expenses and capital associated with our discontinued International operations for 2010. These estimates assume the sales will occur at the end of 2010. Pursuant to accounting rules for discontinued operations, the International assets will not be subject to DDA during 2010. Low High ($ in millions, except per Boe) Oil production (MMBbls) 14 16 Average oil price as a % of NYMEX 90 % 100 % LOE $ 190 $ 210 Taxes other than income taxes as % of revenue 10.25 % 11.25 % Accretion of asset retirement obligation $ 5 $ 5 Income tax rates: Current 20 % 30 % Deferred (5 )% % Total 15 % 30 % Development capital $ 220 $ 260 Exploration capital $ 240 $ 280 Total development exploration $ 460 $ 540 Other capital $ 80 $ 90 72 Table of Contents Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Capital Expenditures Though we have completed several major property acquisitions in recent years, these transactions are opportunity driven. Thus, we do not forecast, nor can we reasonably predict, the timing or size of such possible acquisitions. Our capital expenditures budget is based on an expected range of future oil, gas and NGL prices as well as the expected costs of the capital additions. Should actual prices received differ materially from our price expectations for our future production, some projects may be accelerated or deferred and, consequently, may increase or decrease total 2010 capital expenditures. In addition, if the actual material or labor costs of the budgeted items vary significantly from the anticipated amounts, actual capital expenditures could vary materially from our estimates. Given the limitations discussed above, the following table shows expected ranges for drilling, development and facilities expenditures by geographic area. Development capital includes development activity related to reserves classified as proved and drilling that does not offset currently productive units and for which there is not a certainty of continued production from a known productive formation. Exploration capital includes exploratory drilling to find and produce oil or gas in previously untested fault blocks or new reservoirs. U.S. North American U.S. Onshore Canada Onshore Offshore Total (In millions) Development capital $ 2,210 $2,470 $ 1,010 $1,140 $ 3,220 $3,610 $ 420 $500 $ 3,640 $4,110 Exploration capital $ 520 $560 $ 20 $30 $ 540 $590 $ 100 $120 $ 640 $710 Total $ 2,730 $3,030 $ 1,030 $1,170 $ 3,760 $4,200 $ 520 $620 $ 4,280 $4,820 In addition to the above expenditures for drilling, development and facilities, we expect to capitalize between $330 million and $350 million of GA expenses in accordance with the full cost method of accounting and to capitalize between $45 million and $55 million of interest. We also expect to pay between $80 million and $90 million for plugging and abandonment charges. Additionally, we expect to spend between $380 million and $430 million on our marketing and midstream assets, which primarily include our oil pipelines, gas processing plants, and gas pipeline systems. We expect to spend between $385 million and $435 million for corporate and other fixed assets. Other Cash Uses Our management expects the policy of paying a quarterly common stock dividend to continue. With the current $0.16 per share quarterly dividend rate and 447 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009, dividends are expected to approximate $286 million. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our estimated 2010 cash uses, including our capital activities, are expected to be funded primarily through a combination of our existing cash balances and operating cash flow. Another major source of liquidity will be proceeds from the divestiture of our offshore operations, which we estimate will range from $4.5 billion to $7.5 billion after taxes. The amount of operating cash flow to be generated during 2010 is uncertain due to the factors affecting revenues and expenses as previously cited. The amount of divestiture proceeds we ultimately receive is also uncertain. However, we expect our combined capital resources will be adequate to fund our anticipated capital expenditures and other cash uses for 2010. Additionally, we can borrow commercial paper or access our lines of credit, which had an available capacity of approximately $2.0 billion as of February 15, 2010, to fund planned or additional capital activities. 73 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The following disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than speculative trading. Commodity Price Risk Our major market risk exposure is in the pricing applicable to our oil, gas and NGL production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to our U.S. and Canadian gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil, gas and NGL production has been volatile and unpredictable for several years. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Consequently, we periodically enter into financial hedging activities with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production through various financial transactions that hedge the future prices received. These transactions include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Based on gas price contracts in place as of December 31, 2009, we have approximately 1.3 Bcf per day of gas production in 2010 that is associated with price swaps or fixed price contracts. This amount represents approximately 50% of our estimated 2010 gas production. As of December 31, 2009, we also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2010 gas production. All of the gas price swap contracts expire December 31, 2010. The key terms of our gas price contracts are presented in the following tables. 2010 Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 1,265,000 $ 6.16 2010 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential Volume to Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year AECO 150,000 $ 0.33 Total year CIG 70,000 $ 0.37 Based on oil price collar contracts in place as of December 31, 2009, we have hedged 79,000 barrels of oil per day for 2010. This amount represents approximately 65% of our estimated 2010 oil production. The key terms of our oil collar contracts are presented in the following table. 2010 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 79,000 $ 65.00 $70.00 $ 67.47 $ 90.35 $103.30 $ 96.48 The fair values of our gas price and basis swaps and oil collars are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of relevant oil and gas price indexes. At December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased the fair value of our gas price swaps by approximately $264 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil collars would have decreased the fair value of these instruments by approximately $108 million. 74 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2009, we had debt outstanding of $7.3 billion. Of this amount, $5.9 billion, or 80%, bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.2%. Additionally, we had $1.4 billion of outstanding commercial paper, bearing interest at floating rates which averaged 0.29%. As of December 31, 2009, our interest rate swaps consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $1.85 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate of 3.99% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 $ 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 $ 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 $ 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 700 3.99 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 The fair values of our interest rate instruments are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the Federal Funds rate and LIBOR. At December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our net assets by approximately $46 million. Foreign Currency Risk Our net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our Canadian subsidiaries are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the Canadian dollar functional currency. Assets and liabilities of the Canadian subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of a reporting period. Revenues, expenses and cash flow are translated using the average exchange rate during the reporting period. A 10% unfavorable change in the Canadian to U.S. dollar exchange rate would not materially impact our December 31, 2009 balance sheet. 75 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The following discussion and analysis presents managements perspective of our business, financial condition and overall performance. This information is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our past performance, current financial condition and outlook for the future and should be reviewed in conjunction with our Selected Financial Data and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our discussion and analysis relates to the following subjects: Overview of Business Overview of 2009 Results Business and Industry Outlook Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Contingencies and Legal Matters 33 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Forward Looking Estimates Overview of Business Devon is one of North Americas leading independent oil and gas exploration and production companies. Our operations are focused in the United States and Canada. We also own natural gas pipelines and treatment facilities in many of our producing areas, making us one of North Americas larger processors of natural gas liquids. As an enterprise, we strive to optimize value for our shareholders by growing reserves, production, earnings and cash flows, all on a per share basis. We accomplish this by replenishing our reserves and production and managing other key operational elements that drive our success. These items are discussed more fully below. Reserves and production growth Our financial condition and profitability are significantly affected by the amount of proved reserves we own. Oil and gas properties are our most significant assets, and the reserves that relate to such properties are key to our future success. To increase our proved reserves, we must replace quantities produced with additional reserves from successful exploration and development activities or property acquisitions. Additionally, our profitability and operating cash flows are largely dependent on the amount of oil, gas and NGLs we produce. Growing production from existing properties is difficult because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. As a result, we constantly drill for and develop reserves on properties that provide a balance of near term and long term production. In addition, we may acquire properties with proved reserves that we can develop and subsequently produce to help us meet our production goals. Capital investment discipline Effectively deploying our resources into capital projects is key to maintaining and growing future production and oil and gas reserves. As a result, we have historically deployed virtually all our available cash flow into capital projects. Therefore, maintaining a disciplined approach to investing in capital projects is important to our profitability and financial condition. Our ability to control capital expenditures can be affected by changes in commodity prices. During times of high commodity prices, drilling and related costs often escalate due to the effects of supply versus demand economics. The inverse is also true. Approximately two thirds of our planned 2010 investment in capital projects is dedicated to a foundation of low risk projects in our North American Onshore properties. The remainder of our capital has been identified for longer term projects primarily in new unconventional natural gas plays in several U.S. Onshore regions, as well as offshore activities in the Gulf of Mexico. By deploying our capital in this manner, we are able to consistently deliver cost efficient drill bit growth and provide a strong source of cash flow while balancing short term and long term growth targets. The timing of closing the planned sales of our Gulf of Mexico properties will impact exactly how much of our 2010 capital is used on our Gulf of Mexico assets. High margin assets Like many investors, we seek to invest our capital resources into projects where we can generate the highest risk adjusted investment returns. One factor that can have a significant impact on such returns is our drilling success rates. Combined with appropriate revenue and cost management strategies, high drilling success rates are important to generating competitive returns on our capital investment. During 2009, we drilled 1,135 wells and 99% of those were successful. The success rate is similar to our drilling achievements in recent years, demonstrating a proven track record of success. By accomplishing high drilling success rates, we provide an inventory of reserves growth and a platform of opportunities on our undrilled acreage that can be profitably developed. Reserves and production balance As evidenced by history, commodity prices are inherently volatile. In addition, oil and gas prices often diverge due to a variety of circumstances. Consequently, we value a balance of reserves and production between gas and liquids that can add stability to our revenue stream when either commodity price is under pressure. Our production mix in 2009 was 34 Table of Contents approximately 70% gas and 30% oil and NGLs such as propane, butane and ethane. Our year end reserves were approximately 60% gas and 40% liquids. With planned future growth in oil from our Jackfish and other projects, combined with an inventory of shale natural gas plays, we expect to maintain this balance in the future. Operating cost controls To maintain our competitive position, we must control our lease operating costs and other production costs. As reservoirs are depleted and production rates decline, per unit production costs will generally increase and affect our profitability and operating cash flows. Similar to capital expenditures, our ability to control operating costs can be affected by significant changes in commodity prices. Our base North American production is focused in core areas of our operations where we can achieve economies of scale to help manage our operating costs. Marketing and midstream performance improvement We enhance the value of our oil and gas operations with our marketing and midstream business. By efficiently gathering and processing oil, gas and NGL production, our midstream operations contribute to our strategies to grow reserves and production and manage expenditures. Additionally, by effectively marketing our production, we maximize the prices received for our oil, gas and NGL production in relation to market prices. This is important because our profitability is highly dependent on market prices. These prices are determined primarily by market conditions. Market conditions for these products have been, and will continue to be, influenced by regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other factors that are beyond our control. To manage this volatility, we utilize financial hedging arrangements and fixed price physical delivery contracts. As of February 15, 2010, approximately 53% of our 2010 gas production is associated with financial price swaps and collars. Additionally, approximately 65% of our 2010 oil production is associated with financial price collars. Financial flexibility preservation As mentioned, commodity prices have been and will continue to be volatile and will continue to impact our profitability and cash flow. We understand this fact and manage our debt levels accordingly to preserve our liquidity and financial flexibility. We generally operate within the cash flow generated by our operations. However, during periods of low commodity prices, we may use our balance sheet strength to access debt or equity markets, allowing us to preserve our business and maintain momentum until markets recover. When prices improve, we can utilize excess operating cash flow to repay debt and invest in our activities that not only maintain but also increase value per share. Overview of 2009 Results 2009 was a pivotal year for us as we began repositioning Devon to focus entirely on our high return, North American Onshore natural gas and oil portfolio. We grew North American Onshore production more than six percent in 2009 and replaced more than twice our production with the drill bit at very attractive costs. The performance of these assets is reflected in our earnings, which steadily increased over the last three quarters of 2009. However, our full year 2009 results were significantly impacted by the downward pressure in oil and natural gas prices that began in the last half of 2008 and continued throughout 2009. The Henry Hub natural gas index average for 2009 was 56% lower than 2008. Although crude prices have improved since the end of 2008, the 2009 West Texas Intermediate oil index average was 38% lower than 2008. The lower oil and gas prices significantly impacted our first quarter 2009 earnings, which in turn impacted our full year earnings. During 2009, we incurred a net loss of $2.5 billion, or $5.58 per diluted share. These amounts are the result of a noncash impairment of our oil and gas properties that was recognized in the first quarter of 2009 and totaled $4.2 billion, net of income taxes. Substantially all of this noncash charge was the result of the drop in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2009. Key measures of our performance for 2009, as well as certain operational developments, are summarized below: Production grew 4% over 2008, to 233 million Boe. 35 Table of Contents The combined realized price for oil, gas and NGLs per Boe decreased 50% to $26.15. Oil and gas hedges generated net gains of $384 million in 2009, including cash receipts of $505 million. Marketing and midstream operating profit decreased 25% to $512 million. Per unit lease operating costs decreased 14% to $7.16 per Boe. Operating cash flow decreased to $4.7 billion, representing a 50% decrease over 2008. Capitalized costs incurred in our oil and gas activities were $4.1 billion in 2009. From an operational perspective, we completed another successful year with the drill bit. We drilled 1,135 gross wells with an overall 99% rate of success. This success rate enabled us to increase proved reserves by 496 million Boe, which was more than double our 2009 production. Our drilling success was driven by North American Onshore development wells, which represented 95% of the wells drilled. Besides another successful year of North American Onshore drilling, we had several other key operational achievements during 2009. The first phase of our 100% owned Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in the Alberta oil sands was operational throughout 2009. As measured by production per well and steam to oil ratio, Jackfish is one of Canadas most successful steam assisted gravity drainage projects. In late 2009, Jackfishs gross production reached 33.7 MBbls of oil per day. The addition of four more producing wells is expected to push production to the facilitys capacity of 35 MBbls per day in early 2010. We continued construction throughout 2009 on a second phase of the Jackfish project. Jackfish 2 is also sized to produce 35 MBbls of oil per day and will commence operations in 2011. Further expansion into a third phase of Jackfish is planned for 2010. We expect to file a regulatory application for Jackfish 3 in the third quarter of 2010. Elsewhere in North America, we are expanding and developing five natural gas shale plays where we own a total of 1.6 million net acres. At the Barnett Shale, the most mature of our shale plays, we pushed our total producing wells to almost 4,200 at the end of 2009, and we exited the year producing just over one Bcfe per day. In the Cana Woodford Shale and Arkoma Woodford Shale, we drilled a total of 108 wells, increasing reserves to 120 MMBoe. In the Haynesville Shale, our drilling has been focused on de risking our acreage in the greater Carthage area of east Texas. Finally, at Horn River, we have assembled a portfolio of acreage that requires minimal drilling to hold. We are in the early stages of evaluating the full potential of these leases and formulating a development plan. Even with the net loss, we maintained a solid financial position throughout 2009. We used operating cash flow, borrowings and cash on hand to fund $5.3 billion of capital expenditures and pay $284 million of dividends. At the end of 2009, we had $1.0 billion of cash and $1.8 billion of availability under our credit lines. Business and Industry Outlook Over the past decade we captured an abundance of resources. We pioneered horizontal drilling in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas and extended this technique to other natural gas shale plays in the United States and Canada. We became proficient with steam assisted gravity drainage with our Jackfish oil sands development in Alberta, Canada. We achieved key oil discoveries with our drilling in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and offshore Brazil. We have more than tripled our proved oil and gas reserves since 2000 and have also assembled an extensive inventory of exploration assets, representing additional unproved resources. Building off our past successes, in November 2009, we announced plans to strategically reposition Devon as a high growth, North American onshore exploration and production company. As part of this strategic repositioning, we plan to bring forward the value of our offshore assets located in the Gulf of Mexico and countries outside North America by divesting them. 36 Table of Contents This repositioning is driven by our desire to unlock and accelerate the realization of the value underlying the deep inventory of opportunities we have. We have assembled a valuable portfolio of offshore assets, and we have a considerable inventory of premier North American onshore assets. However, our North American Onshore assets have consistently provided us our highest risk adjusted investment returns. By selling our offshore assets, we can more aggressively pursue the untapped value of these North American Onshore opportunities. We expect to receive after tax proceeds of between $4.5 billion and $7.5 billion as we divest our U.S. Offshore and International properties in 2010. By using a portion of these proceeds to reduce debt, we will further strengthen our balance sheet. Besides reducing debt, the offshore divestiture proceeds are expected to provide significant funds to redeploy into our prolific North American Onshore opportunities. With these added funds, we plan to accelerate the growth and realization of the value of our North American Onshore assets. Results of Operations As previously stated, we are in the process of divesting our offshore assets. As a result, all amounts in this document related to our International operations are presented as discontinued. Therefore, the production, revenue and expense amounts presented in this Results of Operations section exclude amounts related to our International assets unless otherwise noted. Even though we are also divesting our U.S. Offshore operations, these properties do not qualify as discontinued operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and operating data provided in this document that pertain to our continuing operations include amounts related to our U.S. Offshore operations. To facilitate comparisons of our ongoing operations subsequent to the planned divestitures, we have presented amounts related to our U.S. Offshore assets separate from those of our North American Onshore assets where appropriate. Unless otherwise stated, all dollar amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars. Revenues Our oil, gas and NGL production volumes from 2007 to 2009 are shown in the following table. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 Oil (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 12 +3 % 11 +0 % 11 Canada 25 +17 % 22 +34 % 16 North American Onshore 37 +12 % 33 +20 % 27 U.S. Offshore 5 15 % 6 24 % 8 Total 42 +8 % 39 +10 % 35 Gas (Bcf) U.S. Onshore 698 +5 % 669 +20 % 558 Canada 223 +5 % 212 6 % 227 North American Onshore 921 +5 % 881 +12 % 785 U.S. Offshore 45 22 % 57 25 % 77 Total 966 +3 % 938 +9 % 862 37 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 NGLs (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 25 +9 % 24 +14 % 21 Canada 4 5 % 4 6 % 4 North American Onshore 29 +7 % 28 +11 % 25 U.S. Offshore 1 +27 % 26 % 1 Total 30 +7 % 28 +10 % 26 Total (MMBoe)(1) U.S. Onshore 154 +5 % 146 +17 % 124 Canada 66 +9 % 61 +5 % 58 North American Onshore 220 +6 % 207 +13 % 182 U.S. Offshore 13 18 % 16 25 % 22 Total 233 +4 % 223 +9 % 204 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in the table. The following table presents the prices we realized on our production volumes from 2007 to 2009. These prices exclude any effects due to our oil and gas derivative financial instruments. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 Oil (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 56.17 41 % $ 95.63 +42 % $ 67.34 Canada $ 47.35 33 % $ 71.04 +43 % $ 49.80 North American Onshore $ 50.11 37 % $ 79.45 +39 % $ 56.99 U.S. Offshore $ 60.75 42 % $ 104.90 +46 % $ 71.95 Total $ 51.39 38 % $ 83.35 +38 % $ 60.30 Gas (per Mcf) U.S. Onshore $ 3.14 58 % $ 7.43 +30 % $ 5.69 Canada $ 3.66 55 % $ 8.17 +31 % $ 6.24 North American Onshore $ 3.27 57 % $ 7.61 +30 % $ 5.85 U.S. Offshore $ 4.20 56 % $ 9.53 +33 % $ 7.17 Total $ 3.31 57 % $ 7.73 +29 % $ 5.97 38 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(2) 2008 2007(2) 2007 NGLs (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 23.40 43 % $ 40.97 +14 % $ 36.08 Canada $ 33.09 46 % $ 61.45 +33 % $ 46.07 North American Onshore $ 24.65 44 % $ 43.94 +16 % $ 37.80 U.S. Offshore $ 27.42 46 % $ 51.11 +39 % $ 36.78 Total $ 24.71 44 % $ 44.08 +17 % $ 37.76 Combined (per Boe)(1) U.S. Onshore $ 22.41 53 % $ 47.91 +28 % $ 37.45 Canada $ 32.29 44 % $ 57.65 +39 % $ 41.51 North American Onshore $ 25.38 50 % $ 50.78 +31 % $ 38.74 U.S. Offshore $ 38.83 48 % $ 74.55 +40 % $ 53.30 Total $ 26.15 50 % $ 52.49 +30 % $ 40.26 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in the table. The volume and price changes in the tables above caused the following changes to our oil, gas and NGL sales between 2007 and 2009. Oil Gas NGL Total (In millions) 2007 sales $ 2,117 $ 5,138 $ 970 $ 8,225 Changes due to volumes 222 459 95 776 Changes due to prices 894 1,647 178 2,719 2008 sales 3,233 7,244 1,243 11,720 Changes due to volumes 258 222 89 569 Changes due to prices (1,338 ) (4,269 ) (585 ) (6,192 ) 2009 sales $ 2,153 $ 3,197 $ 747 $ 6,097 Oil Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Oil sales decreased $1.3 billion as a result of a 38% decrease in our realized price without hedges. The average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price decreased 38% during the same time period, accounting for the majority of the decrease in our realized price. Oil sales increased $258 million due to a three million barrel, or 8%, increase in production. The increased production resulted primarily from the continued development of our Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in Canada. 2008 vs. 2007 Oil sales increased $894 million as a result of a 38% increase in our realized price without hedges. The average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price increased 38% during the same time period, accounting for the majority of the increase in our realized price. Oil sales increased $222 million due to a four million barrel, or 10%, increase in production. Production from our Canadian operations increased approximately six million barrels in 2008 as a result of first oil sales 39 Table of Contents at Jackfish and heavy oil development activity at Lloydminster. This increase was partially offset by the deferral of 0.5 million barrels of oil production from our U.S. Offshore properties due to hurricanes. Gas Sales 2009 vs. 2008 Gas sales decreased $4.3 billion as a result of a 57% decrease in our realized price without hedges. This decrease was largely due to decreases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A 28 Bcf, or 3%, increase in production during 2009 caused gas sales to increase by $222 million. Our North American Onshore properties contributed 40 Bcf of higher volumes. This increase included 25 Bcf of higher production in Canada due to a decline in Canadian government royalties, resulting largely from lower gas prices. The remainder of the North American Onshore growth resulted from new drilling and development that exceeded natural production declines, primarily in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas. These increases were partially offset by 12 Bcf of lower production from our U.S. Offshore properties, largely resulting from natural production declines. 2008 vs. 2007 Gas sales increased $1.6 billion as a result of a 29% increase in our realized price without hedges. This increase was largely due to increases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A 76 Bcf, or 9%, increase in production during 2008 caused gas sales to increase by $459 million. Our North American Onshore properties contributed 96 Bcf to our growth as a result of new drilling and development that exceeded natural production declines. This increase was led by our drilling and development program in the Barnett Shale, which contributed 83 Bcf to the gas production increase. This increase and the effect of new drilling and development in our other North American Onshore properties were partially offset by natural production declines and the deferral of seven Bcf of production in our U.S. Offshore properties in 2008 due to hurricanes. NGL Sales 2009 vs. 2008 NGL sales decreased $585 million as a result of a 44% decrease in our realized price without hedges. This decrease was largely due to decreases in the regional index prices upon which our U.S. Onshore NGL sales are based. NGL sales increased $89 million in 2009 due to a two million barrel, or 7%, increase in production. The increase in production is primarily due to drilling and development in the Barnett Shale. 2008 vs. 2007 NGL sales increased $178 million as a result of a 17% increase in our realized price without hedges. This increase was largely due to increases in the regional index prices upon which our U.S. Onshore NGL sales are based. NGL sales increased $95 million in 2008 due to a two million barrel, or 10%, increase in production. The increase in production is primarily due to Barnett Shale drilling and development. 40 Table of Contents Net Gain (Loss) on Oil and Gas Derivative Financial Instruments The following tables provide financial information associated with our oil and gas derivative financial instruments from 2007 to 2009. The first table presents the cash settlements and unrealized gains and losses recognized as components of our revenues. The subsequent tables present our oil, gas and NGL prices with, and without, the effects of the cash settlements from 2007 to 2009. The prices do not include the effects of unrealized gains and losses. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Cash settlement receipts (payments): Gas price collars $ 450 $ (221 ) $ 2 Gas price swaps 55 (203 ) 38 Oil price collars 27 Total cash settlements 505 (397 ) 40 Unrealized (losses) gains on fair value changes: Gas price collars (255 ) 255 (4 ) Gas price swaps 169 (12 ) (22 ) Gas basis swaps 3 Oil price collars (38 ) Total unrealized (losses) gains on fair value changes (121 ) 243 (26 ) Net gain (loss) $ 384 $ (154 ) $ 14 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 51.39 $ 3.31 $ 24.71 $ 26.15 Cash settlements of hedges 0.52 2.16 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 51.39 $ 3.83 $ 24.71 $ 28.31 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 83.35 $ 7.73 $ 44.08 $ 52.49 Cash settlements of hedges 0.70 (0.46 ) (1.78 ) Realized price, including cash settlements $ 84.05 $ 7.27 $ 44.08 $ 50.71 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 60.30 $ 5.97 $ 37.76 $ 40.26 Cash settlements of hedges 0.04 0.20 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 60.30 $ 6.01 $ 37.76 $ 40.46 Our oil and gas derivative financial instruments include price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. For the price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counterparty. For the basis swaps, we receive a fixed differential between two regional gas index prices and pay a variable differential on the same two index prices to the contract counterparty. The price collars set a floor and ceiling price. If the applicable monthly price indices are outside of the ranges set by the 41 Table of Contents floor and ceiling prices in the various collars, we cash settle the difference with the counterparty to the collars. Cash settlements as presented in the tables above represent realized gains or losses related to our price swaps and collars. In addition to recognizing these cash settlement effects, we also recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our oil and gas derivative instruments in each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of our oil and gas derivative financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Based on the amount of volumes subject to our gas price swaps and collars at December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our 2009 unrealized losses for our gas derivative financial instruments by approximately $264 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil derivative financial instruments would have increased our 2009 unrealized losses by approximately $108 million. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. Counterparty credit risk is also a component of commodity derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with numerous counterparties. Our commodity derivative contracts are held with twelve separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2009, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. During 2009, the fair value of our oil and gas derivative financial instruments dropped by $121 million. This reduction largely resulted from the reversal of previously recorded unrealized gains on our gas price collar contracts, which was expected as the contracts settled throughout 2009 and expired on December 31, 2009. This reduction, as well as the reduction related to our oil price collars, were partially offset by unrealized gains on gas swap contracts that we entered into during 2009 and will be settled throughout 2010. During 2008, the fair value of our gas derivative financial instruments increased by $243 million, which was largely due to a decrease in the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve. Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Operating Costs and Expenses The changes in marketing and midstream revenues, operating costs and expenses and the resulting operating profit between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 ($ in millions) Marketing and midstream: Revenues $ 1,534 33 % $ 2,292 +32 % $ 1,736 Operating costs and expenses 1,022 37 % 1,611 +32 % 1,217 Operating profit $ 512 25 % $ 681 +31 % $ 519 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 Marketing and midstream revenues decreased $758 million and operating costs and expenses decreased $589 million, causing operating profit to decrease $169 million. Both revenues and 42 Table of Contents expenses decreased primarily due to lower natural gas and NGL prices, partially offset by higher NGL production and gas pipeline throughput. 2008 vs. 2007 Marketing and midstream revenues increased $556 million and operating costs and expenses increased $394 million, causing operating profit to increase $162 million. Both revenues and expenses increased primarily due to higher natural gas and NGL prices and increased gas pipeline throughput. Lease Operating Expenses (LOE) The changes in LOE between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 Lease operating expenses ($ in millions): U.S. Onshore $ 838 6 % $ 893 +25 % $ 712 Canada 673 13 % 776 +24 % 627 North American Onshore 1,511 10 % 1,669 +25 % 1,339 U.S. Offshore 159 13 % 182 6 % 193 Total $ 1,670 10 % $ 1,851 +21 % $ 1,532 Lease operating expenses per Boe: U.S. Onshore $ 5.46 11 % $ 6.11 +7 % $ 5.70 Canada $ 10.15 20 % $ 12.74 +18 % $ 10.80 North American Onshore $ 6.87 15 % $ 8.06 +10 % $ 7.32 U.S. Offshore $ 11.98 +6 % $ 11.29 +25 % $ 9.04 Total $ 7.16 14 % $ 8.29 +11 % $ 7.50 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 LOE decreased $181 million in 2009. LOE dropped $182 million due to declining costs for fuel, materials, equipment and personnel, as well as declines in maintenance and well workover projects. Such declines largely resulted from decreasing demand for field services due to lower oil and gas prices. Changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar reduced LOE $49 million. Additionally, LOE decreased $31 million as a result of hurricane damages in 2008 to certain of our U.S. Offshore facilities and transportation systems. These factors were also the main contributors to the decrease in LOE per Boe on our North American Onshore properties. Production growth at our large scale Jackfish project also contributed to a decrease in LOE per Boe. As Jackfish production approached the facilitys capacity during 2009, its per unit costs declined, contributing to lower overall LOE per Boe. The remainder of our 4% production growth added $81 million to LOE during 2009. 2008 vs. 2007 LOE increased $319 million in 2008. The largest individual contributor to this increase, as well as the increase in LOE per Boe, was higher per unit costs associated with the new thermal heavy oil production at Jackfish in 2008. When large scale projects such as Jackfish are in the early phases of production, per unit operating costs are normally higher than the per unit costs for our overall portfolio of producing properties. LOE also increased $144 million due to our 9% growth in production. Additionally, LOE increased $31 million due to hurricane damages in 2008 to certain of our U.S. Offshore facilities and transportation systems. These hurricane damages also contributed to the increase in LOE per Boe. 43 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes assessed by various government agencies on our U.S. Onshore properties. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. The following table details the changes in our taxes other than income taxes between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 ($ in millions) Production $ 132 57 % $ 306 +41 % $ 216 Ad valorem 175 +8 % 162 +19 % 135 Other 7 4 % 8 +20 % 7 Total $ 314 34 % $ 476 +33 % $ 358 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 Production taxes decreased $174 million in 2009. This decrease was largely due to lower U.S. Onshore revenues, as well as an increase in tax credits associated with certain properties in the state of Texas. Ad valorem taxes increased $13 million primarily due to higher assessed oil and gas property and equipment values. 2008 vs. 2007 Production taxes increased $90 million in 2008 primarily due to an increase in our U.S. Onshore revenues. Ad valorem taxes increased $27 million primarily due to higher assessed oil and gas property and equipment values. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization of Oil and Gas Properties (DDA) DDA of oil and gas properties is calculated by multiplying the percentage of total proved reserve volumes produced during the year, by the depletable base. The depletable base represents our capitalized investment, net of accumulated DDA and reductions of carrying value, plus future development costs related to proved undeveloped reserves. Generally, when reserve volumes are revised up or down, then the DDA rate per unit of production will change inversely. However, when the depletable base changes, then the DDA rate moves in the same direction. The per unit DDA rate is not affected by production volumes. Absolute or total DDA, as opposed to the rate per unit of production, generally moves in the same direction as production volumes. Oil and gas property DDA is calculated separately on a country by country basis. The changes in our production volumes, DDA rate per unit and DDA of oil and gas properties between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 Total production volumes (MMBoe) 233 +4 % 223 +9 % 204 DDA rate ($ per Boe) $ 7.86 40 % $ 13.20 +12 % $ 11.81 DDA expense ($ in millions) $ 1,832 38 % $ 2,948 +22 % $ 2,412 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 44 Table of Contents The following table details the changes in DDA of oil and gas properties between 2007 and 2009 due to the changes in production volumes and DDA rate presented in the table above. (In millions) 2007 DDA $ 2,412 Change due to volumes 224 Change due to rate 312 2008 DDA 2,948 Change due to volumes 130 Change due to rate (1,246 ) 2009 DDA $ 1,832 2009 vs. 2008 Oil and gas property related DDA decreased $1.2 billion due to a 40% decrease in the DDA rate. The largest contributors to the rate decrease were reductions of the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties recognized in the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008. These reductions totaled $16.3 billion and resulted from full cost ceiling limitations in the United States and Canada. In addition, the effects of changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar also contributed to the rate decrease. These factors were partially offset by the effects of costs incurred and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2009 drilling activities. Partially offsetting the impact from the lower 2009 DDA rate was our 4% production increase, which caused oil and gas property related DDA expense to increase $130 million. Our 2009 DDA rate reflects our adoption of the SECs Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting. The impact of adopting the SECs new rules at the end of 2009 had virtually no impact on our 2009 DDA rate. 2008 vs. 2007 Oil and gas property related DDA increased $312 million due to a 12% increase in the DDA rate. The largest contributor to the rate increase was inflationary pressure on both the costs incurred during 2008 as well as the estimated development costs to be spent in future periods on proved undeveloped reserves. Other factors that contributed to the rate increase were reductions in reserve estimates due to lower 2008 year end commodity prices and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2008 drilling activities. In addition to the impact from the higher 2008 rate, the 9% production increase caused oil and gas property related DDA expense to increase $224 million. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our net GA consists of three primary components. The largest of these components is the gross amount of expenses incurred for personnel costs, office expenses, professional fees and other GA items. The gross amount of these expenses is partially offset by two components. One is the amount of GA capitalized pursuant to the full cost method of accounting related to exploration and development activities. The other is the amount of GA reimbursed by working interest owners of properties for which we serve as the operator. These reimbursements are received during both the drilling and operational stages of a propertys life. The gross amount of GA incurred, less the amounts capitalized and reimbursed, is recorded as net GA in the consolidated statements of operations. Net GA includes expenses related to oil, gas and NGL exploration 45 Table of Contents and production activities, as well as marketing and midstream activities. See the following table for a summary of GA expenses by component. Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs 2008 vs 2009 2008(1) 2008 2007(1) 2007 ($ in millions) Gross GA $ 1,107 +0 % $ 1,103 +24 % $ 903 Capitalized GA (332 ) 2 % (337 ) +26 % (277 ) Reimbursed GA (127 ) +5 % (121 ) +7 % (113 ) Net GA $ 648 +0 % $ 645 +26 % $ 513 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2009 vs. 2008 Gross GA increased $4 million. This increase was due to approximately $60 million of higher costs for employee compensation and benefits, mostly offset by the effects of our 2009 reduced spending initiatives for certain discretionary cost categories. Employee cost increases in 2009 included an additional $57 million of severance costs. This increase was primarily due to Gulf of Mexico employees that were impacted by the integration of our Gulf of Mexico and International operations into one offshore unit in the second quarter of 2009 and other employee departures during 2009. Additionally, postretirement benefits costs increased approximately $50 million. The increases in employee costs were partially offset by a $27 million decrease due to accelerated share based compensation expense recognized in 2008 as discussed below. 2008 vs. 2007 Gross GA increased $200 million. The largest contributors to the increase were higher employee compensation and benefits costs. These cost increases, which were largely related to our growth and industry inflation during most of 2008, caused gross GA to increase $164 million. Of this increase, $65 million related to higher stock compensation. Stock compensation increased $43 million in 2008 due to a modification of the share based compensation arrangements for certain executives. The modified compensation arrangements provide that executives who meet certain years of service and age criteria can retire and continue vesting in outstanding share based grants. As a condition to receiving the benefits of these modifications, the executives must agree not to use or disclose Devons confidential information and not to solicit Devons employees and customers. The executives are required to agree to these conditions at retirement and again in each subsequent year until all grants have vested. Although this modification does not accelerate the vesting of the executives grants, it does accelerate the expense recognition as executives approach the years of service and age criteria. When the modification was made in 2008, certain executives had already met the years of service and age criteria. As a result, we recognized $27 million of share based compensation expense in the second quarter of 2008 related to this modification. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recognized an additional $16 million of stock compensation for grants made to these executives. The additional expenses would have been recognized in future reporting periods if the modification had not been made and the executives continued their employment at Devon. The higher employee compensation and benefits costs, exclusive of the accelerated stock compensation expense, were also the primary factors that caused the $60 million increase in capitalized GA in 2008. Restructuring Costs In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recognized $153 million of estimated employee severance costs associated with the planned divestitures of our offshore assets that was announced in November 2009. This amount was based on our estimates of the number of employees that will ultimately be impacted by the divestitures, and includes $63 million related to accelerated vesting of share based grants. Of the $153 million 46 Table of Contents total, $105 million relates to our U.S. Offshore operations and the remainder relates to our International discontinued operations. As of the date of this report, only one of the properties we intend to sell had actually been sold. Furthermore, the vast majority of employees will not be impacted by the divestitures until the properties are sold. Therefore, our estimate of employee severance costs recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009 was based upon certain key estimates that could change as properties are sold. These estimates include the number of impacted employees, the number of employees offered comparable positions with the buyers and the date of separation for impacted employees. If our estimate of the number of impacted employees were to increase 10%, our estimate of employee severance costs would increase approximately $10 million. If our estimate of the number of employees offered comparable positions with the buyers were to decrease by 10%, our estimate of employee severance costs would increase approximately $15 million. Additionally, if the date of separation were to occur one month after our current estimates, our estimate of employee severance costs would increase approximately $2 million. Interest Expense The following table includes the components of interest expense between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Interest based on debt outstanding $ 437 $ 426 $ 508 Capitalized interest (94 ) (111 ) (102 ) Other 6 14 24 Total interest expense $ 349 $ 329 $ 430 2009 vs. 2008 Interest based on debt outstanding increased $11 million from 2008 to 2009. This increase was primarily due to interest paid on the $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes that we issued in January 2009. This was partially offset by lower interest resulting from the retirement of our exchangeable debentures during the third quarter of 2008 and lower interest rates on our floating rate commercial paper borrowings. Capitalized interest decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to the sales of our West African exploration and development properties in 2008 and the completion of the Access pipeline transportation system in Canada in the second quarter of 2008. 2008 vs. 2007 Interest based on debt outstanding decreased $82 million from 2007 to 2008. This decrease was largely due to lower average outstanding amounts for commercial paper and credit facility borrowings in 2008 than in 2007. The decrease in borrowings resulted largely from the use of proceeds from our West African divestiture program and cash flow from operations to repay all commercial paper and credit facility borrowings in the second quarter of 2008. Additionally, we retired debentures with a face value of $652 million during 2008, primarily during the third quarter. Capitalized interest increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to higher cumulative costs related to large scale development projects in the Gulf of Mexico, partially offset by lower capitalized interest resulting from the completion of the Access pipeline in the second quarter of 2008. 47 Table of Contents Change in Fair Value of Other Financial Instruments The details of the changes in fair value of other financial instruments between 2007 and 2009 are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) (Gains) losses from: Interest rate swaps fair value changes $ (66 ) $ (104 ) $ (1 ) Interest rate swaps settlements (40 ) (1 ) Chevron common stock 363 (281 ) Option embedded in exchangeable debentures (109 ) 248 Total $ (106 ) $ 149 $ (34 ) Interest Rate Swaps We recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. In 2009 and 2008, we recorded unrealized gains of $66 million and $104 million, respectively, as a result of changes in interest rates. Also, during 2009 and 2008, we received cash settlements totaling $40 million and $1 million, respectively, from counterparties to settle our interest rate swaps. There were no cash settlements in 2007. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by a third party. Based on the notional amount subject to the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our 2009 unrealized gain for our interest rate swaps by approximately $46 million. Similar to our commodity derivative contracts, counterparty credit risk is also a component of interest rate derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with several counterparties. Our interest rate derivative contracts are held with seven separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. The credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade as of December 31, 2009. Chevron Common Stock and Related Embedded Option Until October 31, 2008, we owned 14.2 million shares of Chevron common stock and recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of this investment. On October 31, 2008, we exchanged these shares of Chevron common stock for Chevrons interest in the Drunkards Wash properties located in east central Utah and $280 million in cash. In accordance with the terms of the exchange, the fair value of our investment in the Chevron shares was estimated to be $67.71 per share on the exchange date. Prior to the exchange of these shares, we calculated the fair value of our investment in Chevron common stock using Chevrons published market price. We also recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of the conversion option embedded in the debentures exchangeable into shares of Chevron common stock. The embedded option was not actively traded in an established market. Therefore, we estimated its fair value using quotes obtained from a broker for trades occurring near the valuation date. 48 Table of Contents The loss during 2008 on our investment in Chevron common stock was directly attributable to a $25.62 per share decrease in the estimated fair value while we owned Chevrons common stock during the year. The gain on the embedded option during 2008 was directly attributable to the change in fair value of the Chevron common stock from January 1, 2008 to the maturity date of August 15, 2008. The gain on our investment in Chevron common stock and loss on the embedded option during 2007 were directly attributable to a $19.80 increase in the price per share of Chevrons common stock during 2007. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties During 2009 and 2008, we reduced the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties due to full cost ceiling limitations. A summary of these reductions and additional discussion is provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Net of Net of Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) United States $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 6,538 $ 4,168 Canada 3,353 2,488 Total $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 9,891 $ 6,656 The 2009 reduction was recognized in the first quarter and the 2008 reductions were recognized in the fourth quarter. The reductions resulted from significant decreases in each countrys full cost ceiling compared to the immediately preceding quarter. The lower United States ceiling value in the first quarter of 2009 largely resulted from the effects of declining natural gas prices subsequent to December 31, 2008. The lower ceiling values in the fourth quarter of 2008 largely resulted from the effects of sharp declines in oil, gas and NGL prices compared to September 30, 2008. To demonstrate these declines, the March 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008 weighted average wellhead prices are presented in the following table. March 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 September 30, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Country (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) United States $ 47.30 $ 2.67 $ 17.04 $ 42.21 $ 4.68 $ 16.16 $ 97.62 $ 5.28 $ 38.00 Canada N/A N/A N/A $ 23.23 $ 5.31 $ 20.89 $ 59.72 $ 6.00 $ 62.78 N/A Not applicable. The March 31, 2009 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $49.66 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $3.63 per MMBtu for gas. The December 31, 2008 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $44.60 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $5.71 per MMBtu for gas. The September 30, 2008, wellhead prices in the table compare to the NYMEX cash price of $100.64 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $7.12 per MMBtu for gas. 49 Table of Contents Other Income The following table includes the components of other income between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Interest and dividend income $ 8 $ 54 $ 48 Reduction of deep water royalties 84 Hurricane insurance proceeds 162 Other (24 ) 1 3 Total $ 68 $ 217 $ 51 Interest and dividend income decreased from 2008 to 2009 due to a decrease in dividends received on our previously owned investment in Chevron common stock and a decrease in interest received on cash equivalents due to lower rates and balances. Interest and dividend income increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to higher cash balances partially offset by lower interest rates and a decrease in dividends received on our investment in Chevron common stock. In 1995, the United States Congress passed the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act. The intent of this legislation was to encourage deep water exploration in the Gulf of Mexico by providing relief from the obligation to pay royalties on certain federal leases. Deep water leases issued in certain years by the Minerals Management Service (the MMS) have contained price thresholds, such that if the market prices for oil or gas exceeded the thresholds for a given year, royalty relief would not be granted for that year. In October 2007, a federal district court ruled in favor of a plaintiff who had challenged the legality of including price thresholds in deep water leases. Additionally, in January 2009 a federal appellate court upheld this district court ruling. This judgment was later appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which, in October 2009, declined to review the appellate courts ruling. The Supreme Courts decision ended the MMSs judicial course to enforce the price thresholds. Prior to September 30, 2009, we had $84 million accrued for potential royalties on various deep water leases. Based upon the Supreme Courts decision, we reduced to zero the $84 million loss contingency accrual in the third quarter of 2009. In 2008, we recognized $162 million of excess insurance recoveries for damages suffered in 2005 related to hurricanes that struck the Gulf of Mexico. The excess recoveries resulted from business interruption claims on policies that were in effect when the 2005 hurricanes occurred. 50 Table of Contents Income Taxes The following table presents our total income tax (benefit) expense related to continuing operations and a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate to the U.S. statutory income tax rate for each of the past three years. The primary factors causing our effective rates to vary from 2007 to 2009, and differ from the U.S. statutory rate, are discussed below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Total income tax (benefit) expense (In millions) $ (1,773 ) $ (1,121 ) $ 842 U.S. statutory income tax rate (35 )% (35 )% 35 % State income taxes (2 )% (1 )% 1 % Taxation on Canadian operations (1 )% 5 % Repatriations and tax policy election changes 7 % Canadian statutory rate reduction (8 )% Other (1 )% (3 )% (3 )% Effective income tax (benefit) expense rate (39 )% (27 )% 25 % For 2008, our effective income tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory income tax rate largely due to two related factors. First, during 2008, we repatriated $2.6 billion from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Second, we made certain tax policy election changes in the second quarter of 2008 to minimize the taxes we otherwise would pay for the cash repatriations, as well as the taxable gains associated with the sales of assets in West Africa. As a result of the repatriation and tax policy election changes, we recognized additional tax expense of $312 million during 2008. Of the $312 million, $295 million was recognized as current income tax expense, and $17 million was recognized as deferred tax expense. Excluding the $312 million of additional tax expense, our effective income tax benefit rate would have been 34% for 2008. In 2007, deferred income taxes were reduced $261 million due to a Canadian statutory rate reduction that was enacted in that year. Earnings From Discontinued Operations For all years presented in the following tables, our discontinued operations include amounts related to our assets in Azerbaijan, Brazil, China and other minor International properties that we are in the process of divesting. Additionally, during 2007 and 2008, our discontinued operations included amounts related to our assets in Egypt and West Africa, including Equatorial Guinea, Cote dIvoire, Gabon and other countries in the 51 Table of Contents region until they were sold. Following are the components of earnings from discontinued operations between 2007 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Total production (MMBoe) 16 18 32 Combined price without hedges (per Boe) $ 59.25 $ 92.72 $ 68.11 (In millions) Operating revenues $ 945 $ 1,702 $ 2,168 Expenses and other income, net: Operating expenses 484 769 597 Restructuring costs 48 Reduction of carrying value of oil and gas properties 108 494 68 Gain on sale of oil and gas properties (17 ) (819 ) (90 ) Total expenses and other income, net 623 444 575 Earnings before income taxes 322 1,258 1,593 Income tax expense 48 367 472 Earnings from discontinued operations $ 274 $ 891 $ 1,121 Our African sales generated total proceeds of $3.0 billion. The following table presents the gains on the African divestiture transactions by year. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net of Net of Net of Gross Taxes Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) Egypt $ $ $ $ $ 90 $ 90 Equatorial Guinea 619 544 Gabon 117 122 Cote dIvoire 17 17 83 95 Other 8 Total $ 17 $ 17 $ 819 $ 769 $ 90 $ 90 2009 vs. 2008 Earnings from discontinued operations decreased $617 million in 2009. Our discontinued earnings were impacted by several factors. First, operating revenues declined largely due to a 36% decrease in the price realized on our production, which was driven by a decline in crude oil index prices. Second, both operating revenues and expenses declined due to divestitures that closed in 2008. Discontinued earnings also decreased due to $48 million of restructuring costs that relate to our planned divestitures and were recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009. These costs consist of employee severance costs. Earnings also decreased $752 million in 2009 due to larger gains recognized on West African asset divestitures in 2008. Partially offsetting these decreased earnings in 2009 was the larger reduction of carrying value recognized in 2008 compared to 2009. The reductions largely consisted of full cost ceiling limitations related to our assets in Brazil that were caused by a decline in oil prices. 2008 vs. 2007 Earnings from discontinued operations decreased $230 million in 2008. Our earnings were impacted by several factors. First, operating revenues and expenses, including the related production volumes, decreased largely due to the timing of our 2008 and 2007 divestitures, partially offset by the effects of first production in Brazil. Discontinued earnings also decreased due to the net effect of reductions in carrying value recognized in 2008 and 2007, which largely related to our assets in Brazil. Discontinued earnings increased $679 million in 2008 due to the larger African divestiture gains in 2008. 52 Table of Contents Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity The following discussion of capital resources, uses and liquidity should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Sources and Uses of Cash The following table presents the sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents from 2007 to 2009. The table presents capital expenditures on a cash basis. Therefore, these amounts differ from capital expenditure amounts that include accruals and are referred to elsewhere in this document. Additional discussion of these items follows the table. 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Sources of cash and cash equivalents: Operating cash flow continuing operations $ 4,232 $ 8,448 $ 5,308 Sales of property and equipment 34 117 76 Net credit facility borrowings 1,450 Net commercial paper borrowings 1,431 1 Proceeds from debt issuance, net of commercial paper repayments 182 Net decrease in investments 7 250 202 Stock option exercises 42 116 91 Proceeds from exchange of Chevron stock 280 Cash distributed from discontinued operations 1,898 Other 8 59 43 Total sources of cash and cash equivalents 5,936 11,169 7,170 Uses of cash and cash equivalents: Capital expenditures (4,879 ) (8,843 ) (5,709 ) Net credit facility repayments (1,450 ) Net commercial paper repayments (804 ) Debt repayments (178 ) (1,031 ) (567 ) Repurchases of common stock (665 ) (326 ) Redemption of preferred stock (150 ) Dividends (284 ) (289 ) (259 ) Other (17 ) Total uses of cash and cash equivalents (5,358 ) (12,428 ) (7,665 ) Increase (decrease) from continuing operations 578 (1,259 ) (495 ) Increase from discontinued operations, net of distributions to continuing operations 6 386 1,061 Effect of foreign exchange rates 43 (116 ) 51 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 627 $ (989 ) $ 617 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,011 $ 384 $ 1,373 Short term investments at end of year $ $ $ 372 53 Table of Contents Operating Cash Flow Continuing Operations Net cash provided by operating activities (operating cash flow) continued to be our primary source of capital and liquidity in 2009. Changes in operating cash flow from our continuing operations are largely due to the same factors that affect our net earnings, with the exception of those earnings changes due to such noncash expenses as DDA, financial instrument fair value changes, property impairments and deferred income taxes. As a result, our operating cash flow decreased 50% during 2009 primarily due to the significant decrease in oil, gas and NGL sales, net of commodity hedge settlements, as discussed in the Results of Operations section of this report. During 2009, our operating cash flow funded approximately 87% of our cash payments for capital expenditures. Commercial paper borrowings were used to fund the remainder of our cash based capital expenditures. During 2008 and 2007 our capital expenditures were primarily funded by our operating cash flow and pre existing cash balances. Other Sources of Cash Continuing and Discontinued Operations As needed, we supplement our operating cash flow with cash on hand and access to our available credit under our credit facilities and commercial paper program. We may also issue long term debt to supplement our operating cash flow while maintaining adequate liquidity under our credit facilities. Additionally, we sometimes acquire short term investments to maximize our income on available cash balances. As needed, we may reduce our investment balances to further supplement our operating cash flow. In January 2009, we issued $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2014 and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2019. The net proceeds received of $1.187 billion, after discounts and issuance costs, were used primarily to repay Devons $1.005 billion of outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to the $1.0 billion commercial paper repayment in January 2009, we utilized additional commercial paper borrowings of $1.4 billion to fund capital expenditure and dividend payments in excess of our operating cash flow during 2009. During 2008, we reduced our short term investment balances by $250 million. We also received $280 million from the exchange of our investment in Chevron common stock, $117 million from the sale of non oil and gas property and equipment and $116 million from stock option exercises. Another significant source of cash was our African divestiture program. In 2008, we received $2.6 billion in proceeds ($1.9 billion net of income taxes and purchase price adjustments) from sales of assets located in Equatorial Guinea and other West African countries. Also, in conjunction with these asset sales, we repatriated an additional $2.6 billion of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. We used these combined sources of cash in 2008 to fund debt repayments, common stock repurchases, redemptions of preferred stock and dividends on common and preferred stock. During 2007, we borrowed $1.5 billion under our unsecured revolving line of credit and reduced our short term investment balances by $202 million. We also received $341 million of proceeds from the sale of our Egyptian operations. These sources of cash were used primarily to fund net commercial paper repayments, long term debt repayments, common stock repurchases and dividends on common and preferred stock. 54 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures Following are the components of our capital expenditures for the years ended 2009, 2008 and 2007. The amounts in the table below reflect cash payments for capital expenditures, including cash paid for capital expenditures incurred. Capital expenditures actually incurred during 2009, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $4.7 billion, $10.0 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively. 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) U.S. Onshore $ 2,413 $ 5,606 $ 3,280 Canada 1,064 1,459 1,232 North American Onshore 3,477 7,065 4,512 U.S. Offshore 845 1,157 687 Total exploration and development 4,322 8,222 5,199 Midstream 323 451 370 Other 234 170 141 Total continuing operations $ 4,879 $ 8,843 $ 5,710 Our capital expenditures consist of amounts related to our oil and gas exploration and development operations, our midstream operations and other corporate activities. The vast majority of our capital expenditures are for the acquisition, drilling or development of oil and gas properties, which totaled $4.3 billion, $8.2 billion and $5.2 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in capital expenditures from 2008 to 2009 was due to decreased drilling activities in most of our operating areas in response to lower commodity prices in 2009 compared to recent years. The 2008 capital expenditures include $2.6 billion related to acquisitions of properties in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Canada. Excluding the effect of the 2008 acquisitions, the increase in capital expenditures from 2007 to 2008 was due to increased drilling activities in the Barnett Shale, Gulf of Mexico, Carthage, Groesbeck and Washakie areas of the United States and the Lloydminster and Jackfish projects in Canada. Expenditures in the first half of 2008 also increased due to inflationary pressure driven by increased competition for field services. Our capital expenditures for our midstream operations are primarily for the construction and expansion of natural gas processing plants, natural gas pipeline systems and oil pipelines. These midstream facilities exist primarily to support our oil and gas development operations. The majority of our midstream expenditures from 2007 to 2009 were related to development activities in the Barnett Shale, the Arkoma Woodford Shale in southeastern Oklahoma, the Cana Woodford Shale in western Oklahoma and Jackfish in Canada. Net Repayments of Debt Debt repayments in 2009 include the retirement of $177 million of 10.125% notes upon maturity in the fourth quarter. During 2008, we repaid $1.5 billion in outstanding credit facility borrowings primarily with proceeds received from the sales of assets under our African divestiture program. Also during 2008, virtually all holders of exchangeable debentures exercised their option to exchange their debentures for shares of Chevron common stock owned by us. The debentures matured on August 15, 2008. In lieu of delivering our shares of Chevron common stock, we exercised our option to pay the exchanging debenture holders cash totaling $1.0 billion. This amount included the retirement of debentures with a book value of $652 million and a $379 million payment of the related embedded derivative option. During 2007, we repaid the $400 million 4.375% notes, which matured on October 1, 2007. Also during 2007, certain holders of exchangeable debentures exercised their option to exchange their debentures for shares of Chevron common stock prior to the debentures August 15, 2008 maturity date. In lieu of delivering shares of Chevron common stock, we exercised our option to pay the exchanging debenture holders an amount of cash equal to the market value of Chevron common stock. We paid $167 million in cash to exchangeable 55 Table of Contents debenture holders who exercised their exchange rights. This amount included the retirement of debentures with a book value of $105 million and a $62 million payment of the related embedded derivative option. Repurchases of Common Stock During 2008 and 2007, we repurchased 10.6 million shares at a total cost of $1.0 billion, or an average of $93.76 per share, under approved repurchase programs. No shares were repurchased in 2009. The following table summarizes our repurchases under approved plans during 2008 and 2007 (amounts and shares in millions). Both programs expired on December 31, 2009. 2008 2007 Repurchase Program Amount Shares Per Share Amount Shares Per Share Annual program $ 178 2.0 $ 87.83 $ $ 2007 program 487 4.5 $ 109.25 326 4.1 $ 79.80 Totals $ 665 6.5 $ 102.56 $ 326 4.1 $ 79.80 Redemption of Preferred Stock On June 20, 2008, we redeemed all 1.5 million outstanding shares of our 6.49% Series A cumulative preferred stock. Each share of preferred stock was redeemed for cash at a redemption price of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends up to the redemption date. Dividends Our common stock dividends were $284 million (or a quarterly rate of $0.16 per share) in both 2009 and 2008, and $249 million (or a quarterly rate of $0.14) in 2007. Common dividends increased from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to the higher quarterly dividend rates. We also paid $5 million of preferred stock dividends in 2008 and $10 million of preferred stock dividends in 2007. The decrease in the preferred dividends in 2008 was due to the redemption of our preferred stock in the second quarter of 2008. Liquidity Historically, our primary source of capital and liquidity has been operating cash flow. Additionally, we maintain revolving lines of credit and a commercial paper program, which can be accessed as needed to supplement operating cash flow. Other available sources of capital and liquidity include the issuance of equity securities, as well as our automatically effective registration statement on Form S 3ASR filed with the SEC. This registration statement can be used to offer short term and long term debt securities. In 2010, another major source of liquidity will be proceeds from the sales of our offshore operations, which we estimate will range from $4.5 billion to $7.5 billion after taxes. We expect the combination of these sources of capital will be adequate to fund future capital expenditures, debt repayments and other contractual commitments as discussed later in this section. Operating Cash Flow Our operating cash flow is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is pricing of the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. Due to sharp declines in commodity prices, our operating cash flow decreased approximately 50% to $4.7 billion in 2009 as compared to 2008. In spite of the recent commodity price declines, we expect operating cash flow will continue to be a primary source of liquidity, and we will need to manage our capital expenditures and other cash uses accordingly. However, as a result of depressed commodity prices, debt borrowings have been a significant source of liquidity during 2009. During 2009, our net borrowings of long term debt and commercial paper totaled $1.6 billion. We anticipate utilizing commercial paper borrowings as needed to supplement operating cash flow in 2010. As the offshore divestiture transactions close, we anticipate using a portion of the proceeds to repay our commercial paper borrowings. 56 Table of Contents Commodity Prices Prices for oil, gas and NGLs are determined primarily by prevailing market conditions. Regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other substantially variable factors influence market conditions for these products. These factors, which are difficult to predict, create volatility in oil, gas and NGL prices and are beyond our control. We expect this volatility to continue throughout 2010. To mitigate some of the risk inherent in prices, we have utilized various price swap, fixed price physical delivery and price collar contracts to set minimum and maximum prices on our 2010 production. As of February 15, 2010 approximately 65% of our estimated 2010 oil production is subject to price collars and approximately 54% of our estimated 2010 gas production is subject to price collars, price swaps and fixed price physicals. We also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2010 gas production. Commodity prices can also affect our operating cash flow through an indirect effect on operating expenses. Significant commodity price increases, as experienced in recent years, can lead to an increase in drilling and development activities. As a result, the demand and cost for people, services, equipment and materials may also increase, causing a negative impact on our cash flow. However, the inverse is also true during periods of depressed commodity prices such as what we are currently experiencing. Interest Rates Our operating cash flow can also be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. As of February 15, 2010, we had total debt of $7.1 billion with an overall weighted average borrowing rate of 5.93%. To manage our exposure to interest rate volatility, we have interest rate swap instruments with a total notional amount of $1.85 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect, based upon us paying a fixed rate and receiving a floating rate. Including the effects of these swaps, the weighted average interest rate related to our fixed rate debt was 5.36% as of February 15, 2010. Credit Losses Our operating cash flow is also exposed to credit risk in a variety of ways. We are exposed to the credit risk of the customers who purchase our oil, gas and NGL production. We are also exposed to credit risk related to the collection of receivables from our joint interest partners for their proportionate share of expenditures made on projects we operate. We are also exposed to the credit risk of counterparties to our derivative financial contracts as discussed previously in this report. The recent deterioration of the global financial and capital markets, combined with the drop in commodity prices, has increased our credit risk exposure. However, we utilize a variety of mechanisms to limit our exposure to the credit risks of our customers, partners and counterparties. Such mechanisms include, under certain conditions, posting of letters of credit, prepayment requirements and collateral posting requirements. Credit Availability We have two revolving lines of credit and a commercial paper program which we can access to provide liquidity. We have a $2.65 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving line of credit (the Senior Credit Facility). The maturity date for $2.15 billion of the Senior Credit Facility is April 7, 2013. The maturity date for the remaining $0.5 billion is April 7, 2012. All amounts outstanding will be due and payable on the respective maturity dates unless the maturity is extended. Prior to each April 7 anniversary date, we have the option to extend the maturity of the Senior Credit Facility for one year, subject to the approval of the lenders. The Senior Credit Facility includes a revolving Canadian subfacility in a maximum amount of U.S. $500 million. Amounts borrowed under the Senior Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods of up to twelve months. Such rates are generally less than the prime rate. However, we may elect to borrow at the prime rate. As February 15, 2010, there were no borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility. We also have a $700 million 364 day, syndicated, unsecured revolving senior credit facility (the Short Term Facility) that matures on November 2, 2010. On the maturity date, all amounts outstanding will be due 57 Table of Contents and payable at that time. Amounts borrowed under the Short Term Facility bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods of up to 12 months. Such rates are generally based on LIBOR or the prime rate. As of February 15, 2010, there were no borrowings under the Short Term Facility. We also have access to short term credit under our commercial paper program. Total borrowings under the commercial paper program may not exceed $2.85 billion. Also, any borrowings under the commercial paper program reduce available capacity under the Senior Credit Facility or the Short Term Facility on a dollar for dollar basis. Commercial paper debt generally has a maturity of between one and 90 days, although it can have a maturity of up to 365 days, and bears interest at rates agreed to at the time of the borrowing. The interest rate is based on a standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. As of February 15, 2010, we had $1.3 billion of commercial paper debt outstanding at an average rate of 0.25%. The Senior Credit Facility and Short Term Facility contain only one material financial covenant. This covenant requires our ratio of total funded debt to total capitalization to be less than 65%. The credit agreement contains definitions of total funded debt and total capitalization that include adjustments to the respective amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. Also, total capitalization is adjusted to add back noncash financial writedowns such as full cost ceiling impairments or goodwill impairments. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with this covenant. Our debt to capitalization ratio at December 31, 2009, as calculated pursuant to the terms of the agreement, was 20.5%. Our access to funds from the Senior Credit Facility and Short Term Facility is not restricted under any material adverse effect clauses. It is not uncommon for credit agreements to include such clauses. These clauses can remove the obligation of the banks to fund the credit line if any condition or event would reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on the borrowers financial condition, operations, properties or business considered as a whole, the borrowers ability to make timely debt payments, or the enforceability of material terms of the credit agreement. While our credit facilities include covenants that require us to report a condition or event having a material adverse effect, the obligation of the banks to fund the credit facilities is not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse effect. The following schedule summarizes the capacity of our credit facilities by maturity date, as well as our available capacity as of February 15, 2010 (in millions). Senior Credit Facility: April 7, 2012 maturity $ 500 April 7, 2013 maturity 2,150 Total Senior Credit Facility 2,650 Short Term Facility November 2, 2010 maturity 700 Total credit facilities 3,350 Less: Outstanding credit facility borrowings Outstanding commercial paper borrowings 1,257 Outstanding letters of credit 88 Total available capacity $ 2,005 Debt Ratings We receive debt ratings from the major ratings agencies in the United States. In determining our debt ratings, the agencies consider a number of items including, but not limited to, debt levels, planned asset sales, near term and long term production growth opportunities and capital allocation challenges. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix, and commodity pricing levels are also considered by the rating agencies. Our current debt ratings are BBB+ with a stable outlook by both Fitch and Standard Poors, and Baa1 with a stable outlook by Moodys. 58 Table of Contents There are no rating triggers in any of our contractual obligations that would accelerate scheduled maturities should our debt rating fall below a specified level. Our cost of borrowing under our Senior Credit Facility is predicated on our corporate debt rating. Therefore, even though a ratings downgrade would not accelerate scheduled maturities, it would adversely impact the interest rate on any borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. Under the terms of the Senior Credit Facility, a one notch downgrade would increase the fully drawn borrowing costs from LIBOR plus 35 basis points to a new rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points. A ratings downgrade could also adversely impact our ability to economically access debt markets in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we were not aware of any potential ratings downgrades being contemplated by the rating agencies. Capital Expenditures Our 2010 capital expenditures are expected to range from $6.0 billion to $6.8 billion, including amounts related to our discontinued operations. To a certain degree, the ultimate timing of these capital expenditures is within our control. Therefore, if oil and gas prices fluctuate from current estimates, we could choose to defer a portion of these planned 2010 capital expenditures until later periods, or accelerate capital expenditures planned for periods beyond 2010 to achieve the desired balance between sources and uses of liquidity. The amount and timing of the planned offshore asset divestitures in 2010 could also result in acceleration of capital spending on our North American Onshore opportunities. Based upon current price expectations for 2010 and the commodity hedging contracts we have in place, we anticipate having adequate capital resources to fund our 2010 capital expenditures. Common Stock Repurchase Programs All of our common stock repurchase programs expired on December 31, 2009. None of our programs were extended to 2010. Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009, is provided in the following table. Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) North American Onshore: Debt(1) $ 7,267 $ 1,432 $ 2,110 $ 500 $ 3,225 Interest expense(2) 4,998 406 666 508 3,418 Drilling and facility obligations(3) 1,136 659 395 81 1 Firm transportation agreements(4) 1,939 298 508 419 714 Asset retirement obligations(5) 1,068 44 115 150 759 Lease obligations(6) 347 57 94 49 147 Other(7) 518 129 128 57 204 Total North American Onshore 17,273 3,025 4,016 1,764 8,468 Offshore: Drilling and facility obligations(3) 2,113 955 775 383 Asset retirement obligations(5) 554 51 141 61 301 Lease obligations(6) 602 121 182 176 123 Total Offshore 3,269 1,127 1,098 620 424 Grand Total $ 20,542 $ 4,152 $ 5,114 $ 2,384 $ 8,892 59 Table of Contents (1) Debt amounts represent scheduled maturities of our debt obligations at December 31, 2009, excluding $12 million of net premiums included in the carrying value of debt. (2) Interest expense related to our fixed rate debt represents the scheduled cash payments. Interest related to our variable rate commercial paper borrowings was estimated based upon expected future interest rates as of December 31, 2009. (3) Drilling and facility obligations represent contractual agreements with third party service providers to procure drilling rigs and other related services for developmental and exploratory drilling and facilities construction. Included in the $2.1 billion of offshore obligations is $1.4 billion that relates to long term contracts for three deepwater drilling rigs and certain other contracts for offshore drilling and facility obligations in which drilling or facilities construction has not commenced. The $1.4 billion represents the gross commitment under these contracts. Our ultimate payment for these commitments will be reduced by any amounts billed to our working interest partners until we sell the associated offshore properties. Payments for these commitments, net of amounts billed to partners, will be capitalized as a component of oil and gas properties. Additionally, our commitment under these contracts may be further reduced if the buyers of our offshore assets assume all or a portion of the obligations. If the buyers do not assume these obligations, we will attempt to sublease the rigs to reduce our commitment. However, if the buyers do not assume the obligations and we are not able to sublease the rigs, we would be contractually committed to the amounts related to the remaining lease periods. (4) Firm transportation agreements represent ship or pay arrangements whereby we have committed to ship certain volumes of oil, gas and NGLs for a fixed transportation fee. We have entered into these agreements to aid the movement of our production to market. We expect to have sufficient production to utilize the majority of these transportation services. (5) Asset retirement obligations represent estimated discounted costs for future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation costs. These obligations are recorded as liabilities on our December 31, 2009 balance sheet. (6) Lease obligations consist of operating leases for office space and equipment, an offshore platform spar and FPSOs. Office and equipment leases represent non cancelable leases for office space and equipment used in our daily operations. We have an offshore platform spar that is being used in the development of the Nansen field in the Gulf of Mexico. This spar is subject to a 20 year lease and contains various options whereby we may purchase the lessors interests in the spars. We have guaranteed that the spar will have a residual value at the end of the term equal to at least 10% of the fair value of the spar at the inception of the lease. The total guaranteed value is $14 million in 2022. However, such amount may be reduced under the terms of the lease agreements. In 2005, we sold our interests in the Boomvang field in the Gulf of Mexico, which has a spar lease with terms similar to those of the Nansen lease. As a result of the sale, we are subleasing the Boomvang spar. The table above does not include any amounts related to the Boomvang spar lease. However, if the sublessee were to default on its obligation, we would continue to be obligated to pay the periodic lease payments and any guaranteed value required at the end of the term. We also lease three FPSOs that are related to the Panyu project offshore China, the Polvo project offshore Brazil and the Cascade project offshore the Gulf of Mexico. The Panyu FPSO lease term expires in 2018. The Polvo FPSO lease term expires in 2014. The Cascade FPSO lease term expires in 2015. We expect the eventual buyers of these offshore assets will assume the FPSO leases. However, the amounts in the table reflect our full commitments under the leases. (7) These amounts include $272 million related to uncertain tax positions. Expected pension funding obligations have not been included in this table, but are presented and discussed in the section immediately below. Pension Funding and Estimates Funded Status As compared to the projected benefit obligation, our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $448 million and $501 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 60 Table of Contents respectively. A detailed reconciliation of the 2009 changes to our underfunded status is included in Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Of the $448 million underfunded status at the end of 2009, $215 million is attributable to various nonqualified defined benefit plans that have no plan assets. However, we have established certain trusts to fund the benefit obligations of such nonqualified plans. As of December 31, 2009, these trusts had investments with a fair value of $39 million. The value of these trusts is included in noncurrent other assets in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. As compared to the accumulated benefit obligation, our qualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $164 million at December 31, 2009. The accumulated benefit obligation differs from the projected benefit obligation in that the former includes no assumption about future compensation levels. Our funding policy regarding the qualified defined benefit plans is to contribute the amounts necessary for the plans assets to approximately equal the present value of benefits earned by the participants, as calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Protection Act. While we did have investment gains in 2009, the investment losses experienced during 2008 significantly reduced the value of our plans assets. We estimate we will contribute approximately $25 million to our qualified pension plans during 2010. However, actual contributions may be different than this amount. Our funding policy regarding the nonqualified defined benefit plans is to supplement as needed the amounts accumulated in the related trusts with available cash and cash equivalents. Pension Estimate Assumptions Our pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods and is impacted by funding decisions or requirements. We recognized expense for our defined benefit pension plans of $119 million, $61 million and $41 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We estimate that our pension expense will approximate $85 million in 2010. Should our actual 2010 contributions to qualified and nonqualified plans vary significantly from our current estimate of $34 million, our actual 2010 pension expense could vary from this estimate. The calculation of pension expense and pension liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and actual experience can differ from the assumptions. We believe that the two most critical assumptions affecting pension expense and liabilities are the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. We assumed that our plan assets would generate a long term weighted average rate of return of 7.18% and 8.40% at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We developed these expected long term rate of return assumptions by evaluating input from external consultants and economists as well as long term inflation assumptions. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets is based on a target allocation of investment types in such assets. At December 31, 2009, the target allocations for plan assets were 47.5% for equity securities, 40% for fixed income securities and 12.5% for other investment types. Equity securities consist of investments in large capitalization and small capitalization companies, both domestic and international. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of investment grade companies from diverse industries, United States Treasury obligations and asset backed securities. Other investment types include short term investment funds and a hedge fund of funds. We expect our long term asset allocation on average to approximate the targeted allocation. We regularly review our actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance the investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on plan assets decreases. A decrease in our long term rate of return assumption of 100 basis points would increase the expected 2010 pension expense by $5 million. We discounted our future pension obligations using a weighted average rate of 6.00% at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The discount rate is determined at the end of each year based on the rate at which obligations could be effectively settled, considering the expected timing of future cash flows related to the plans. This rate is based on high quality bond yields, after allowing for call and default risk. We consider high quality corporate bond yield indices, such as Moodys Aa, when selecting the discount rate. 61 Table of Contents The pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 25 basis points would increase our pension liability at December 31, 2009, by $32 million, and increase estimated 2010 pension expense by $4 million. At December 31, 2009, we had net actuarial losses of $334 million, which will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years. These losses are primarily due to investment losses on plan assets in 2008, reductions in the discount rate since 2001 and increases in participant wages. We estimate that approximately $27 million and $23 million of the unrecognized actuarial losses will be included in pension expense in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The $27 million estimated to be recognized in 2010 is a component of the total estimated 2010 pension expense of $85 million referred to earlier in this section. Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our defined benefit pension plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. Contingencies and Legal Matters For a detailed discussion of contingencies and legal matters, see Note 10 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from these estimates, and changes in these estimates are recorded when known. The critical accounting policies used by management in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. Our critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates related to those policies are described below. We have reviewed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Full Cost Ceiling Calculations Policy Description We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. The full cost method subjects companies to quarterly calculations of a ceiling, or limitation on the amount of properties that can be capitalized on the balance sheet. The ceiling limitation is the discounted estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, excluding future cash outflows associated with settling asset retirement obligations included in the net book value of oil and gas properties, plus the cost of properties not subject to amortization. If our net book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes, is in excess of the calculated ceiling, the excess must be written off as an expense. The ceiling limitation is imposed separately for each country in which we have oil and gas properties. An expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher oil and gas prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. Judgments and Assumptions The discounted present value of future net revenues for our proved oil, gas and NGL reserves is a major component of the ceiling calculation, and represents the component that requires the most subjective judgments. Estimates of reserves are forecasts based on engineering data, projected future rates of production and the timing of future expenditures. The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves requires substantial judgment, resulting in imprecise determinations, particularly for new discoveries. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities based on the same data. Certain of our reserve estimates 62 Table of Contents are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants, while other reserve estimates are prepared by our engineers. See Note 22 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of the amount of our reserves that are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants. The passage of time provides more qualitative information regarding estimates of reserves, and revisions are made to prior estimates to reflect updated information. In the past five years, annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates, which have been both increases and decreases in individual years, have averaged less than 2% of the previous years estimate. However, there can be no assurance that more significant revisions will not be necessary in the future. If future significant revisions are necessary that reduce previously estimated reserve quantities, it could result in a full cost property writedown. In addition to the impact of the estimates of proved reserves on the calculation of the ceiling, estimates of proved reserves are also a significant component of the calculation of DDA. While the quantities of proved reserves require substantial judgment, the associated prices of oil, gas and NGL reserves, and the applicable discount rate, that are used to calculate the discounted present value of the reserves do not require judgment. The ceiling calculation dictates that a 10% discount factor be used and future net revenues are calculated using prices that represent the average of the first day of the month price for the 12 month period prior to the end of each quarterly period. Costs included in future net revenues are determined in a similar manner. Therefore, the future net revenues associated with the estimated proved reserves are not based on our assessment of future prices or costs. In calculating the ceiling, we adjust the end of period price by the effect of derivative contracts in place that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. This adjustment requires little judgment as the calculated average price is adjusted using the contract prices for such hedges. None of our outstanding derivative contracts at December 31, 2009 qualified for hedge accounting treatment. Because the ceiling calculation dictates the use of prices that are not representative of future prices and requires a 10% discount factor, the resulting value is not indicative of the true fair value of the reserves. Oil and gas prices have historically been cyclical and, for any particular 12 month period, can be either higher or lower than our long term price forecast, which is a more appropriate input for estimating fair value. Therefore, oil and gas property writedowns that result from applying the full cost ceiling limitation, and that are caused by fluctuations in price as opposed to reductions to the underlying quantities of reserves, should not be viewed as absolute indicators of a reduction of the ultimate value of the related reserves. Because of the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict the timing or magnitude of full cost writedowns. Derivative Financial Instruments Policy Description We periodically enter into derivative financial instruments with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production that hedge the future prices received. These instruments are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil and gas price volatility. Our oil and gas derivative financial instruments include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Additionally, we periodically enter into interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. Under the terms of certain of our interest rate swaps, we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate on a total notional amount. The remainder of our swaps represent forward starting swaps, under which we will pay a fixed rate and receive a floating rate on a total notional amount. All derivative financial instruments are recognized at their current fair value as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments are recorded in the statement of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. If such criteria are met for cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value is recorded directly to accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, until the hedged transaction occurs. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value is recorded in the statement of operations. If such criteria are met for fair value hedges, the change in the fair value is recorded in the statement of operations with an 63 Table of Contents offsetting amount recorded for the change in fair value of the hedged item. Cash settlements with counterparties to our derivative financial instruments also increase or decrease earnings at the time of the settlement. A derivative financial instrument qualifies for hedge accounting treatment if we designate the instrument as such on the date the derivative contract is entered into or the date of a business combination or other transaction that includes derivative contracts. Additionally, we must document the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the instrument. We must also assess, both at the instruments inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivative is highly effective in offsetting the change in cash flow of the hedged item. For derivative financial instruments held during 2009, 2008 and 2007, we chose not to meet the necessary criteria to qualify our derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting treatment. Judgments and Assumptions The estimates of the fair values of our derivative instruments require substantial judgment. We estimate the fair values of our oil and gas derivative financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted using LIBOR and money market futures rates for the first year and money market futures and swap rates thereafter. These pricing and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward prices and regional price differentials. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by third parties. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted using LIBOR and money market futures rates for the first year and money market futures and swap rates thereafter. These yield and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties and or brokers. In spite of the recent turmoil in the financial markets, counterparty credit risk has not had a significant effect on our cash flow calculations and derivative valuations. This is primarily the result of two factors. First, we have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with numerous counterparties. Our commodity derivative contracts are held with twelve separate counterparties, and our interest rate derivative contracts are held with seven separate counterparties. Second, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold for collateral posting decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2009, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. Because we have chosen not to qualify our derivatives for hedge accounting treatment, changes in the fair values of derivatives can have a significant impact on our results of operations. Generally, changes in derivative fair values will not impact our liquidity or capital resources. Settlements of derivative instruments, regardless of whether they qualify for hedge accounting, do have an impact on our liquidity and results of operations. Generally, if actual market prices are higher than the price of the derivative instruments, our net earnings and cash flow from operations will be lower relative to the results 64 Table of Contents that would have occurred absent these instruments. The opposite is also true. Additional information regarding the effects that changes in market prices can have on our derivative financial instruments, net earnings and cash flow from operations is included in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Business Combinations Policy Description From our beginning as a public company in 1988 through 2003, we grew substantially through acquisitions of other oil and gas companies. Most of these acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Current accounting pronouncements require the purchase method to be used to account for any future acquisitions. Under the purchase method, the acquiring company adds to its balance sheet the estimated fair values of the acquired companys assets and liabilities. Any excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the tangible and intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. Judgments and Assumptions There are various assumptions we make in determining the fair values of an acquired companys assets and liabilities. The most significant assumptions, and the ones requiring the most judgment, involve the estimated fair values of the oil and gas properties acquired. To determine the fair values of these properties, we prepare estimates of oil, gas and NGL reserves. These estimates are based on work performed by our engineers and that of outside consultants. The judgments associated with these estimated reserves are described earlier in this section in connection with the full cost ceiling calculation. However, there are factors involved in estimating the fair values of acquired oil, gas and NGL properties that require more judgment than that involved in the full cost ceiling calculation. As stated above, the full cost ceiling calculation dictates the use of prices that are not representative of future prices. By contrast, the fair value of reserves acquired in a business combination must be based on our estimates of future oil, gas and NGL prices. Our estimates of future prices are based on our own analysis of pricing trends. These estimates are based on current data obtained with regard to regional and worldwide supply and demand dynamics such as economic growth forecasts. They are also based on industry data regarding gas storage availability, drilling rig activity, changes in delivery capacity, trends in regional pricing differentials and other fundamental analysis. Forecasts of future prices from independent third parties are noted when we make our pricing estimates. We estimate future prices to apply to the estimated reserve quantities acquired, and estimate future operating and development costs, to arrive at estimates of future net revenues. For estimated proved reserves, the future net revenues are then discounted using a rate determined appropriate at the time of the business combination based upon our cost of capital. We also apply these same general principles to estimate the fair value of unproved properties acquired in a business combination. These unproved properties generally represent the value of probable and possible reserves. Because of their very nature, probable and possible reserve estimates are more imprecise than those of proved reserves. To compensate for the inherent risk of estimating and valuing unproved reserves, the discounted future net revenues of probable and possible reserves are reduced by what we consider to be an appropriate risk weighting factor in each particular instance. It is common for the discounted future net revenues of probable and possible reserves to be reduced by factors ranging from 30% to 80% to arrive at what we consider to be the appropriate fair values. Generally, in our business combinations, the determination of the fair values of oil and gas properties requires much more judgment than the fair values of other assets and liabilities. The acquired companies commonly have long term debt that we assume in the acquisition, and this debt must be recorded at the estimated fair value as if we had issued such debt. However, significant judgment on our behalf is usually not 65 Table of Contents required in these situations due to the existence of comparable market values of debt issued by peer companies. Except for the 2002 acquisition of Mitchell Energy Development Corp., our mergers and acquisitions have involved other entities whose operations were predominantly in the area of exploration, development and production activities related to oil and gas properties. However, in addition to exploration, development and production activities, Mitchells business also included substantial marketing and midstream activities. Therefore, a portion of the Mitchell purchase price was allocated to the fair value of Mitchells marketing and midstream facilities and equipment. This consisted primarily of natural gas processing plants and natural gas pipeline systems. The Mitchell midstream assets primarily serve gas producing properties that we also acquired from Mitchell. Therefore, certain of the assumptions regarding future operations of the gas producing properties were also integral to the value of the midstream assets. For example, future quantities of gas estimated to be processed by natural gas processing plants were based on the same estimates used to value the proved and unproved gas producing properties. Future expected prices for marketing and midstream product sales were also based on price cases consistent with those used to value the oil and gas producing assets acquired from Mitchell. Based on historical costs and known trends and commitments, we also estimated future operating and capital costs of the marketing and midstream assets to arrive at estimated future cash flows. These cash flows were discounted at rates consistent with those used to discount future net cash flows from oil and gas producing assets to arrive at our estimated fair value of the marketing and midstream facilities and equipment. In addition to the valuation methods described above, we perform other quantitative analyses to support the indicated value in any business combination. These analyses include information related to comparable companies, comparable transactions and premiums paid. In a comparable companies analysis, we review the public stock market trading multiples for selected publicly traded independent exploration and production companies with comparable financial and operating characteristics. Such characteristics are market capitalization, location of proved reserves and the characterization of those reserves that we deem to be similar to those of the party to the proposed business combination. We compare these comparable company multiples to the proposed business combination company multiples for reasonableness. In a comparable transactions analysis, we review certain acquisition multiples for selected independent exploration and production company transactions and oil and gas asset packages announced recently. We compare these comparable transaction multiples to the proposed business combination transaction multiples for reasonableness. In a premiums paid analysis, we use a sample of selected independent exploration and production company transactions in addition to selected transactions of all publicly traded companies announced recently, to review the premiums paid to the price of the target one day, one week and one month prior to the announcement of the transaction. We use this information to determine the mean and median premiums paid and compare them to the proposed business combination premium for reasonableness. While these estimates of fair value for the various assets acquired and liabilities assumed have no effect on our liquidity or capital resources, they can have an effect on the future results of operations. Generally, the higher the fair value assigned to both the oil and gas properties and non oil and gas properties, the lower future net earnings will be as a result of higher future depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. Also, a higher fair value assigned to the oil and gas properties, based on higher future estimates of oil and gas prices, will increase the likelihood of a full cost ceiling writedown in the event that subsequent oil and gas prices drop below our price forecast that was used to originally determine fair value. A full cost ceiling writedown would have no effect on our liquidity or capital resources in that period because it is a noncash charge, but it would adversely affect results of operations. As discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity, in calculating our debt to capitalization ratio under our credit agreement, total capitalization is adjusted to add back noncash financial writedowns such as full cost ceiling property impairments or goodwill impairments. 66 Table of Contents Our estimates of reserve quantities are one of the many estimates that are involved in determining the appropriate fair value of the oil and gas properties acquired in a business combination. As previously disclosed in our discussion of the full cost ceiling calculations, during the past five years, our annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates have averaged less than 2%. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, there are numerous estimates in addition to reserve quantity estimates that are involved in determining the fair value of oil and gas properties acquired in a business combination. The inter relationship of these estimates makes it impractical to provide additional quantitative analyses of the effects of changes in these estimates. Valuation of Goodwill Policy Description Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is tested for impairment at least annually. The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to assigned reporting units. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated and compared to the net book value of the reporting unit. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the net book value, including goodwill, then the goodwill is written down to the implied fair value of the goodwill through a charge to expense. Judgments and Assumptions The annual impairment test, which we conduct as of October 31 each year, requires us to estimate the fair values of our own assets and liabilities. Because quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the fair values of the reporting units are estimated in a manner similar to the process described above for a business combination. Therefore, considerable judgment similar to that described above in connection with estimating the fair value of an acquired company in a business combination is also required to assess goodwill for impairment. At October 31, 2009, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units were more than double their related carrying values. This excess largely results from the reductions of carrying value that we recognized in 2008 and 2009 due to full cost ceiling limitations, which are not representative of the fair values of our oil and gas properties. Excluding the effects of these reductions, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units exceeded the carrying values by approximately 40% and 80%, respectively. Generally, the higher the fair value assigned to both the oil and gas properties and non oil and gas properties, the lower goodwill would be. A lower goodwill value decreases the likelihood of an impairment charge. However, unfavorable changes in reserves or in our price forecast would increase the likelihood of a goodwill impairment charge. A goodwill impairment charge would have no effect on liquidity or capital resources. However, it would adversely affect our results of operations in that period. Due to the inter relationship of the various estimates involved in assessing goodwill for impairment, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates, other than to note the historical average changes in our reserve estimates previously set forth. Forward Looking Estimates We are providing our 2010 forward looking estimates in the following discussion. These estimates are based on our examination of historical operating trends, the information used to prepare our December 31, 2009 reserve reports and other data in our possession or available from third parties. The forward looking estimates in this discussion were prepared assuming demand, curtailment, producibility and general market conditions for our oil, gas and NGLs during 2010 will be substantially similar to those that existed in 2009, unless otherwise noted. We make reference to the Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this report. Amounts related to Canadian operations have been converted to U.S. dollars using an estimated average 2010 exchange rate of $0.95 U.S. dollar to $1.00 Canadian dollar. We plan to strategically reposition Devon by divesting our U.S. Offshore and International assets. We have entered into agreements to sell our interests in the Cascade, Jack and St. Malo properties in the Gulf of 67 Table of Contents Mexico. The following estimates assume these transactions close on the expected dates during the first quarter of 2010. Although we expect to complete the remainder of the divestitures throughout 2010, all estimates presented assume the remaining divestitures close at the end of 2010. Operating Items Oil, Gas and NGL Production Set forth below are our estimates of oil, gas and NGL production for 2010. We estimate that our combined oil, gas and NGL production will total approximately 231 to 235 MMBoe. The following estimates for oil, gas and NGL production are calculated at the midpoint of the estimated range for total production. Oil Gas NGLs Total (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) U.S. Onshore 13 692 28 156 Canada 28 204 3 65 North American Onshore 41 896 31 221 U.S. Offshore 4 46 12 Total 45 942 31 233 Oil and Gas Prices We expect our 2010 average prices for the oil and gas production from each of our operating areas to differ from the NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The expected ranges for prices are exclusive of the anticipated effects of the financial contracts presented in the Commodity Price Risk Management section below. The NYMEX price for oil is determined using the monthly average of settled prices on each trading day for benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude oil delivered at Cushing, Oklahoma. The NYMEX price for gas is determined using the first of month South Louisiana Henry Hub price index as published monthly in Inside FERC. Expected Range of Prices as a % of NYMEX Price Oil Gas U.S. Onshore 90% to 100% 75% to 85% Canada 65% to 75% 85% to 95% North American Onshore 72% to 82% 77% to 87% U.S. Offshore 95% to 105% 100% to 110% Commodity Price Risk Management From time to time, we enter into NYMEX related financial commodity collar, price swap and basis swap contracts. Such contracts are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil and gas price volatility. Although these financial contracts do not relate to specific production from our operating areas, they will affect our overall revenues, earnings and cash flow in 2010. As of February 15, 2010, our financial commodity contracts pertaining to 2010 consisted of oil and gas price collars, gas price swaps and gas basis swaps. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 1,265,000 $ 6.16 68 Table of Contents Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year AECO 150,000 $ 0.33 Total year CIG 70,000 $ 0.37 Gas Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) First Quarter 70,000 $ 5.40 $5.40 $ 5.40 $ 6.01 $6.14 $ 6.06 Second Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Third Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Fourth Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Total year 88,836 $ 5.40 $5.50 $ 5.48 $ 6.01 $7.10 $ 6.76 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 79,000 $ 65.00 $70.00 $ 67.47 $ 90.35 $103.30 $ 96.48 To the extent that monthly NYMEX prices or differentials on certain regional indexes in 2010 are outside of the ranges established by the collars or differ from those established by the swaps, we and the counterparties to the contracts will cash settle the difference. Such settlements will either increase or decrease our revenues for the period. Also, we will mark to market the contracts based on their fair values throughout 2010. Changes in the contracts fair values will also be recorded as increases or decreases to our revenues. The expected ranges of our realized prices as a percentage of NYMEX prices, which are presented earlier in this report, do not include any estimates of the impact on our prices from monthly settlements or changes in the fair values of our price collars and swaps. Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Expenses Marketing and midstream revenues and expenses are derived primarily from our gas processing plants and gas pipeline systems. These revenues and expenses vary in response to several factors. The factors include, but are not limited to, changes in production from wells connected to the pipelines and related processing plants, changes in the absolute and relative prices of gas and NGLs, provisions of contractual agreements and the amount of repair and maintenance activity required to maintain anticipated processing levels and pipeline throughput volumes. These factors increase the uncertainty inherent in estimating future marketing and midstream revenues and expenses. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our 2010 marketing and midstream operating profit will be between $450 million and $525 million. We estimate that marketing and midstream revenues will be between $1.850 billion and $2.125 billion, and marketing and midstream expenses will be between $1.400 billion and $1.600 billion. Lease Operating Expenses These expenses, which include transportation costs, vary in response to several factors. Among the most significant of these factors are additions to or deletions from the property base, changes in the general price level of services and materials that are used in the operation of the properties, the amount of repair and workover activity required. Oil, gas and NGL prices also have an effect on lease operating expenses and impact the economic feasibility of planned workover projects. 69 Table of Contents Given these uncertainties, we expect that our 2010 lease operating expenses will be between $1.74 billion and $1.90 billion. This estimated range includes $1.58 billion to $1.72 billion related to our North American Onshore business and $0.16 to $0.18 billion associated with our U.S. Offshore operations. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Our taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes that relate to our U.S. Onshore properties and are assessed by various government agencies. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. Over time, a certain propertys assessed value will increase or decrease due to changes in commodity sales prices, production volumes and proved reserves. Therefore, ad valorem taxes will generally move in the same direction as our oil, gas and NGL sales but in a less predictable manner compared to production taxes. Additionally, both production and ad valorem taxes will increase or decrease due to changes in the rates assessed by the government agencies. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our taxes other than income taxes for 2010 will be between 4.50% and 5.50% of total oil, gas and NGL sales. We estimate our 2010 taxes other than income taxes for our North American Onshore operations will range from 4.75% to 5.75% of revenues. We estimate the U.S. Offshore rates will range from 1.00% to 2.00% of revenues. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DDA) Our 2010 oil and gas property DDA rate will depend on various factors. Most notable among such factors are the amount of proved reserves that will be added from drilling or acquisition efforts in 2010 compared to the costs incurred for such efforts, revisions to our year end 2009 reserve estimates that, based on prior experience, are likely to be made during 2010, as well as reductions of carrying value resulting from full cost ceiling tests. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our oil and gas property related DDA rate will be between $7.60 per Boe and $8.10 per Boe. Based on these DDA rates and the production estimates set forth earlier, oil and gas property related DDA expense for 2010 is expected to be between $1.77 billion and $1.89 billion. For our North American Onshore assets, we estimate the DDA rate will range from $7.65 to $8.15 per Boe, resulting in estimated DDA expense of $1.69 billion to $1.80 billion. Our U.S. Offshore DDA rate is estimated to be between $6.75 and $7.25 per Boe, resulting in estimated DDA expense of $0.08 billion to $0.09 billion. Additionally, we expect that our depreciation and amortization expense related to non oil and gas property fixed assets will total between $270 million and $300 million in 2010. This estimate relates entirely to our North American Onshore assets. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligation Accretion of asset retirement obligation in 2010 is expected to be between $95 million and $105 million. This estimated range includes $70 million to $80 million related to our North American Onshore business and $25 million associated with our U.S. Offshore operations. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our GA includes employee compensation and benefits costs and the costs of many different goods and services used in support of our business. GA varies with the level of our operating activities and the related staffing and professional services requirements. In addition, employee compensation and benefits costs vary due to various market factors that affect the level and type of compensation and benefits offered to employees. Also, goods and services are subject to general price level increases or decreases. Therefore, significant 70 Table of Contents variances in any of these factors from current expectations could cause actual GA to vary materially from the estimate. Given these limitations, we estimate our GA for 2010 will be between $580 million and $620 million. This estimate includes approximately $115 million of non cash, share based compensation, net of related capitalization in accordance with the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Restructuring Costs In conjunction with the planned 2010 asset divestitures, we estimate we will incur certain one time restructuring costs totaling between $203 million and $273 million. Such costs estimates consist of employee severance and termination costs, contract termination costs and other associated costs. We recognized $153 million of employee severance costs during the fourth quarter of 2009. We expect the majority of the remaining restructuring costs, including any revisions to the fourth quarter 2009 employee severance costs, will be recognized during 2010. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties Due to the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict whether we will incur full cost writedowns in 2010. Interest Expense Future interest rates and debt outstanding have a significant effect on our interest expense. We can only marginally influence the prices we will receive in 2010 from sales of oil, gas and NGLs and the resulting cash flow. This increases the margin of error inherent in estimating future outstanding debt balances and related interest expense. Other factors that affect outstanding debt balances and related interest expense, such as the amount and timing of capital expenditures are generally within our control. As of February 15, 2010, we had total debt of $7.1 billion. This included $5.8 billion of fixed rate debt and $1.3 billion of variable rate commercial paper borrowings. The fixed rate debt bears interest at an overall weighted average rate of 7.2%. The commercial paper borrowings bear interest at variable rates based on a standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. As of February 15, 2010, the weighted average variable rate for our commercial paper borrowings was 0.25%. Additionally, any future borrowings under our credit facilities would bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods up to twelve months and are generally less than the prime rate. Based on the factors above, we expect our 2010 interest expense to be between $325 million and $365 million. The estimated interest expense is exclusive of the anticipated effects of the interest rate swap contracts presented in the Interest Rate Risk Management section below. The 2010 interest expense estimate above is comprised of three primary components interest related to outstanding debt, fees and issuance costs, and capitalized interest. We expect the interest expense in 2010 related to our fixed rate and floating rate debt, including net accretion of related discounts, to be between $395 million and $435 million. We expect the interest expense in 2010 related to facility and agency fees, amortization of debt issuance costs and other miscellaneous items not related to outstanding debt balances to be between $10 million and $20 million. We also expect to capitalize between $80 million and $90 million of interest during 2010. Interest Rate Risk Management From time to time, we enter into interest rate swaps. Such contracts are used to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. 71 Table of Contents As of February 15, 2010, our interest rate swaps pertaining to 2010 consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following table. Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 $ 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 $ 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 $ 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Income Taxes Our financial income tax rate in 2010 will vary materially depending on the actual amount of financial pre tax earnings. The tax rate for 2010 will be significantly affected by the proportional share of consolidated pre tax earnings generated by our United States and Canadian operations due to the different tax rates of each country. Also, certain tax deductions and credits will have a fixed impact on 2010 income tax expense regardless of the level of pre tax earnings that are produced. Additionally, significant changes in estimated capital expenditures, production levels of oil, gas and NGLs, the prices of such products, marketing and midstream revenues, or any of the various expense items could materially alter the effect of these tax deductions and credits on 2010 financial income tax rates. Given the uncertainty of pre tax earnings, we expect that our total financial income tax rate in 2010 will be between 20% and 40%. The current income tax rate is expected to be between 10% and 20%. The deferred income tax rate is expected to be between 10% and 20%. These ranges do not include the impact of current and deferred income taxes that will be recognized upon the completion of the 2010 asset divestitures. Discontinued Operations The following table shows the estimates for 2010 production, pricing, expenses and capital associated with our discontinued International operations for 2010. These estimates assume the sales will occur at the end of 2010. Pursuant to accounting rules for discontinued operations, the International assets will not be subject to DDA during 2010. Low High ($ in millions, except per Boe) Oil production (MMBbls) 14 16 Average oil price as a % of NYMEX 90 % 100 % LOE $ 190 $ 210 Taxes other than income taxes as % of revenue 10.25 % 11.25 % Accretion of asset retirement obligation $ 5 $ 5 Income tax rates: Current 20 % 30 % Deferred (5 )% % Total 15 % 30 % Development capital $ 220 $ 260 Exploration capital $ 240 $ 280 Total development exploration $ 460 $ 540 Other capital $ 80 $ 90 72 Table of Contents Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Capital Expenditures Though we have completed several major property acquisitions in recent years, these transactions are opportunity driven. Thus, we do not forecast, nor can we reasonably predict, the timing or size of such possible acquisitions. Our capital expenditures budget is based on an expected range of future oil, gas and NGL prices as well as the expected costs of the capital additions. Should actual prices received differ materially from our price expectations for our future production, some projects may be accelerated or deferred and, consequently, may increase or decrease total 2010 capital expenditures. In addition, if the actual material or labor costs of the budgeted items vary significantly from the anticipated amounts, actual capital expenditures could vary materially from our estimates. Given the limitations discussed above, the following table shows expected ranges for drilling, development and facilities expenditures by geographic area. Development capital includes development activity related to reserves classified as proved and drilling that does not offset currently productive units and for which there is not a certainty of continued production from a known productive formation. Exploration capital includes exploratory drilling to find and produce oil or gas in previously untested fault blocks or new reservoirs. U.S. North American U.S. Onshore Canada Onshore Offshore Total (In millions) Development capital $ 2,210 $2,470 $ 1,010 $1,140 $ 3,220 $3,610 $ 420 $500 $ 3,640 $4,110 Exploration capital $ 520 $560 $ 20 $30 $ 540 $590 $ 100 $120 $ 640 $710 Total $ 2,730 $3,030 $ 1,030 $1,170 $ 3,760 $4,200 $ 520 $620 $ 4,280 $4,820 In addition to the above expenditures for drilling, development and facilities, we expect to capitalize between $330 million and $350 million of GA expenses in accordance with the full cost method of accounting and to capitalize between $45 million and $55 million of interest. We also expect to pay between $80 million and $90 million for plugging and abandonment charges. Additionally, we expect to spend between $380 million and $430 million on our marketing and midstream assets, which primarily include our oil pipelines, gas processing plants, and gas pipeline systems. We expect to spend between $385 million and $435 million for corporate and other fixed assets. Other Cash Uses Our management expects the policy of paying a quarterly common stock dividend to continue. With the current $0.16 per share quarterly dividend rate and 447 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009, dividends are expected to approximate $286 million. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our estimated 2010 cash uses, including our capital activities, are expected to be funded primarily through a combination of our existing cash balances and operating cash flow. Another major source of liquidity will be proceeds from the divestiture of our offshore operations, which we estimate will range from $4.5 billion to $7.5 billion after taxes. The amount of operating cash flow to be generated during 2010 is uncertain due to the factors affecting revenues and expenses as previously cited. The amount of divestiture proceeds we ultimately receive is also uncertain. However, we expect our combined capital resources will be adequate to fund our anticipated capital expenditures and other cash uses for 2010. Additionally, we can borrow commercial paper or access our lines of credit, which had an available capacity of approximately $2.0 billion as of February 15, 2010, to fund planned or additional capital activities. 73 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The following disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than speculative trading. Commodity Price Risk Our major market risk exposure is in the pricing applicable to our oil, gas and NGL production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to our U.S. and Canadian gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil, gas and NGL production has been volatile and unpredictable for several years. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Consequently, we periodically enter into financial hedging activities with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production through various financial transactions that hedge the future prices received. These transactions include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Based on gas price contracts in place as of December 31, 2009, we have approximately 1.3 Bcf per day of gas production in 2010 that is associated with price swaps or fixed price contracts. This amount represents approximately 50% of our estimated 2010 gas production. As of December 31, 2009, we also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2010 gas production. All of the gas price swap contracts expire December 31, 2010. The key terms of our gas price contracts are presented in the following tables. 2010 Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 1,265,000 $ 6.16 2010 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential Volume to Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year AECO 150,000 $ 0.33 Total year CIG 70,000 $ 0.37 Based on oil price collar contracts in place as of December 31, 2009, we have hedged 79,000 barrels of oil per day for 2010. This amount represents approximately 65% of our estimated 2010 oil production. The key terms of our oil collar contracts are presented in the following table. 2010 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 79,000 $ 65.00 $70.00 $ 67.47 $ 90.35 $103.30 $ 96.48 The fair values of our gas price and basis swaps and oil collars are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of relevant oil and gas price indexes. At December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased the fair value of our gas price swaps by approximately $264 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil collars would have decreased the fair value of these instruments by approximately $108 million. 74 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2009, we had debt outstanding of $7.3 billion. Of this amount, $5.9 billion, or 80%, bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.2%. Additionally, we had $1.4 billion of outstanding commercial paper, bearing interest at floating rates which averaged 0.29%. As of December 31, 2009, our interest rate swaps consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $1.85 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate of 3.99% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 $ 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 $ 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 $ 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 700 3.99 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 The fair values of our interest rate instruments are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the Federal Funds rate and LIBOR. At December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our net assets by approximately $46 million. Foreign Currency Risk Our net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our Canadian subsidiaries are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the Canadian dollar functional currency. Assets and liabilities of the Canadian subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of a reporting period. Revenues, expenses and cash flow are translated using the average exchange rate during the reporting period. A 10% unfavorable change in the Canadian to U.S. dollar exchange rate would not materially impact our December 31, 2009 balance sheet. 75 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity, in calculating our debt to capitalization ratio under our credit agreement, total capitalization is adjusted to add back noncash financial writedowns such as full cost ceiling property impairments or goodwill impairments. 66 Table of Contents Our estimates of reserve quantities are one of the many estimates that are involved in determining the appropriate fair value of the oil and gas properties acquired in a business combination. As previously disclosed in our discussion of the full cost ceiling calculations, during the past five years, our annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates have averaged less than 2%. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, there are numerous estimates in addition to reserve quantity estimates that are involved in determining the fair value of oil and gas properties acquired in a business combination. The inter relationship of these estimates makes it impractical to provide additional quantitative analyses of the effects of changes in these estimates. Valuation of Goodwill Policy Description Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is tested for impairment at least annually. The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to assigned reporting units. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated and compared to the net book value of the reporting unit. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the net book value, including goodwill, then the goodwill is written down to the implied fair value of the goodwill through a charge to expense. Judgments and Assumptions The annual impairment test, which we conduct as of October 31 each year, requires us to estimate the fair values of our own assets and liabilities. Because quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the fair values of the reporting units are estimated in a manner similar to the process described above for a business combination. Therefore, considerable judgment similar to that described above in connection with estimating the fair value of an acquired company in a business combination is also required to assess goodwill for impairment. At October 31, 2009, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units were more than double their related carrying values. This excess largely results from the reductions of carrying value that we recognized in 2008 and 2009 due to full cost ceiling limitations, which are not representative of the fair values of our oil and gas properties. Excluding the effects of these reductions, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units exceeded the carrying values by approximately 40% and 80%, respectively. Generally, the higher the fair value assigned to both the oil and gas properties and non oil and gas properties, the lower goodwill would be. A lower goodwill value decreases the likelihood of an impairment charge. However, unfavorable changes in reserves or in our price forecast would increase the likelihood of a goodwill impairment charge. A goodwill impairment charge would have no effect on liquidity or capital resources. However, it would adversely affect our results of operations in that period. Due to the inter relationship of the various estimates involved in assessing goodwill for impairment, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates, other than to note the historical average changes in our reserve estimates previously set forth. Forward Looking Estimates We are providing our 2010 forward looking estimates in the following discussion. These estimates are based on our examination of historical operating trends, the information used to prepare our December 31, 2009 reserve reports and other data in our possession or available from third parties. The forward looking estimates in this discussion were prepared assuming demand, curtailment, producibility and general market conditions for our oil, gas and NGLs during 2010 will be substantially similar to those that existed in 2009, unless otherwise noted. We make reference to the Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this report. Amounts related to Canadian operations have been converted to U.S. dollars using an estimated average 2010 exchange rate of $0.95 U.S. dollar to $1.00 Canadian dollar. We plan to strategically reposition Devon by divesting our U.S. Offshore and International assets. We have entered into agreements to sell our interests in the Cascade, Jack and St. Malo properties in the Gulf of 67 Table of Contents Mexico. The following estimates assume these transactions close on the expected dates during the first quarter of 2010. Although we expect to complete the remainder of the divestitures throughout 2010, all estimates presented assume the remaining divestitures close at the end of 2010. Operating Items Oil, Gas and NGL Production Set forth below are our estimates of oil, gas and NGL production for 2010. We estimate that our combined oil, gas and NGL production will total approximately 231 to 235 MMBoe. The following estimates for oil, gas and NGL production are calculated at the midpoint of the estimated range for total production. Oil Gas NGLs Total (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) U.S. Onshore 13 692 28 156 Canada 28 204 3 65 North American Onshore 41 896 31 221 U.S. Offshore 4 46 12 Total 45 942 31 233 Oil and Gas Prices We expect our 2010 average prices for the oil and gas production from each of our operating areas to differ from the NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The expected ranges for prices are exclusive of the anticipated effects of the financial contracts presented in the Commodity Price Risk Management section below. The NYMEX price for oil is determined using the monthly average of settled prices on each trading day for benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude oil delivered at Cushing, Oklahoma. The NYMEX price for gas is determined using the first of month South Louisiana Henry Hub price index as published monthly in Inside FERC. Expected Range of Prices as a % of NYMEX Price Oil Gas U.S. Onshore 90% to 100% 75% to 85% Canada 65% to 75% 85% to 95% North American Onshore 72% to 82% 77% to 87% U.S. Offshore 95% to 105% 100% to 110% Commodity Price Risk Management From time to time, we enter into NYMEX related financial commodity collar, price swap and basis swap contracts. Such contracts are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil and gas price volatility. Although these financial contracts do not relate to specific production from our operating areas, they will affect our overall revenues, earnings and cash flow in 2010. As of February 15, 2010, our financial commodity contracts pertaining to 2010 consisted of oil and gas price collars, gas price swaps and gas basis swaps. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 1,265,000 $ 6.16 68 Table of Contents Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year AECO 150,000 $ 0.33 Total year CIG 70,000 $ 0.37 Gas Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu/d) First Quarter 70,000 $ 5.40 $5.40 $ 5.40 $ 6.01 $6.14 $ 6.06 Second Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Third Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Fourth Quarter 95,000 $ 5.50 $5.50 $ 5.50 $ 6.80 $7.10 $ 6.94 Total year 88,836 $ 5.40 $5.50 $ 5.48 $ 6.01 $7.10 $ 6.76 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 79,000 $ 65.00 $70.00 $ 67.47 $ 90.35 $103.30 $ 96.48 To the extent that monthly NYMEX prices or differentials on certain regional indexes in 2010 are outside of the ranges established by the collars or differ from those established by the swaps, we and the counterparties to the contracts will cash settle the difference. Such settlements will either increase or decrease our revenues for the period. Also, we will mark to market the contracts based on their fair values throughout 2010. Changes in the contracts fair values will also be recorded as increases or decreases to our revenues. The expected ranges of our realized prices as a percentage of NYMEX prices, which are presented earlier in this report, do not include any estimates of the impact on our prices from monthly settlements or changes in the fair values of our price collars and swaps. Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Expenses Marketing and midstream revenues and expenses are derived primarily from our gas processing plants and gas pipeline systems. These revenues and expenses vary in response to several factors. The factors include, but are not limited to, changes in production from wells connected to the pipelines and related processing plants, changes in the absolute and relative prices of gas and NGLs, provisions of contractual agreements and the amount of repair and maintenance activity required to maintain anticipated processing levels and pipeline throughput volumes. These factors increase the uncertainty inherent in estimating future marketing and midstream revenues and expenses. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our 2010 marketing and midstream operating profit will be between $450 million and $525 million. We estimate that marketing and midstream revenues will be between $1.850 billion and $2.125 billion, and marketing and midstream expenses will be between $1.400 billion and $1.600 billion. Lease Operating Expenses These expenses, which include transportation costs, vary in response to several factors. Among the most significant of these factors are additions to or deletions from the property base, changes in the general price level of services and materials that are used in the operation of the properties, the amount of repair and workover activity required. Oil, gas and NGL prices also have an effect on lease operating expenses and impact the economic feasibility of planned workover projects. 69 Table of Contents Given these uncertainties, we expect that our 2010 lease operating expenses will be between $1.74 billion and $1.90 billion. This estimated range includes $1.58 billion to $1.72 billion related to our North American Onshore business and $0.16 to $0.18 billion associated with our U.S. Offshore operations. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Our taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes that relate to our U.S. Onshore properties and are assessed by various government agencies. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. Over time, a certain propertys assessed value will increase or decrease due to changes in commodity sales prices, production volumes and proved reserves. Therefore, ad valorem taxes will generally move in the same direction as our oil, gas and NGL sales but in a less predictable manner compared to production taxes. Additionally, both production and ad valorem taxes will increase or decrease due to changes in the rates assessed by the government agencies. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our taxes other than income taxes for 2010 will be between 4.50% and 5.50% of total oil, gas and NGL sales. We estimate our 2010 taxes other than income taxes for our North American Onshore operations will range from 4.75% to 5.75% of revenues. We estimate the U.S. Offshore rates will range from 1.00% to 2.00% of revenues. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DDA) Our 2010 oil and gas property DDA rate will depend on various factors. Most notable among such factors are the amount of proved reserves that will be added from drilling or acquisition efforts in 2010 compared to the costs incurred for such efforts, revisions to our year end 2009 reserve estimates that, based on prior experience, are likely to be made during 2010, as well as reductions of carrying value resulting from full cost ceiling tests. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our oil and gas property related DDA rate will be between $7.60 per Boe and $8.10 per Boe. Based on these DDA rates and the production estimates set forth earlier, oil and gas property related DDA expense for 2010 is expected to be between $1.77 billion and $1.89 billion. For our North American Onshore assets, we estimate the DDA rate will range from $7.65 to $8.15 per Boe, resulting in estimated DDA expense of $1.69 billion to $1.80 billion. Our U.S. Offshore DDA rate is estimated to be between $6.75 and $7.25 per Boe, resulting in estimated DDA expense of $0.08 billion to $0.09 billion. Additionally, we expect that our depreciation and amortization expense related to non oil and gas property fixed assets will total between $270 million and $300 million in 2010. This estimate relates entirely to our North American Onshore assets. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligation Accretion of asset retirement obligation in 2010 is expected to be between $95 million and $105 million. This estimated range includes $70 million to $80 million related to our North American Onshore business and $25 million associated with our U.S. Offshore operations. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our GA includes employee compensation and benefits costs and the costs of many different goods and services used in support of our business. GA varies with the level of our operating activities and the related staffing and professional services requirements. In addition, employee compensation and benefits costs vary due to various market factors that affect the level and type of compensation and benefits offered to employees. Also, goods and services are subject to general price level increases or decreases. Therefore, significant 70 Table of Contents variances in any of these factors from current expectations could cause actual GA to vary materially from the estimate. Given these limitations, we estimate our GA for 2010 will be between $580 million and $620 million. This estimate includes approximately $115 million of non cash, share based compensation, net of related capitalization in accordance with the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Restructuring Costs In conjunction with the planned 2010 asset divestitures, we estimate we will incur certain one time restructuring costs totaling between $203 million and $273 million. Such costs estimates consist of employee severance and termination costs, contract termination costs and other associated costs. We recognized $153 million of employee severance costs during the fourth quarter of 2009. We expect the majority of the remaining restructuring costs, including any revisions to the fourth quarter 2009 employee severance costs, will be recognized during 2010. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties Due to the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict whether we will incur full cost writedowns in 2010. Interest Expense Future interest rates and debt outstanding have a significant effect on our interest expense. We can only marginally influence the prices we will receive in 2010 from sales of oil, gas and NGLs and the resulting cash flow. This increases the margin of error inherent in estimating future outstanding debt balances and related interest expense. Other factors that affect outstanding debt balances and related interest expense, such as the amount and timing of capital expenditures are generally within our control. As of February 15, 2010, we had total debt of $7.1 billion. This included $5.8 billion of fixed rate debt and $1.3 billion of variable rate commercial paper borrowings. The fixed rate debt bears interest at an overall weighted average rate of 7.2%. The commercial paper borrowings bear interest at variable rates based on a standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. As of February 15, 2010, the weighted average variable rate for our commercial paper borrowings was 0.25%. Additionally, any future borrowings under our credit facilities would bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods up to twelve months and are generally less than the prime rate. Based on the factors above, we expect our 2010 interest expense to be between $325 million and $365 million. The estimated interest expense is exclusive of the anticipated effects of the interest rate swap contracts presented in the Interest Rate Risk Management section below. The 2010 interest expense estimate above is comprised of three primary components interest related to outstanding debt, fees and issuance costs, and capitalized interest. We expect the interest expense in 2010 related to our fixed rate and floating rate debt, including net accretion of related discounts, to be between $395 million and $435 million. We expect the interest expense in 2010 related to facility and agency fees, amortization of debt issuance costs and other miscellaneous items not related to outstanding debt balances to be between $10 million and $20 million. We also expect to capitalize between $80 million and $90 million of interest during 2010. Interest Rate Risk Management From time to time, we enter into interest rate swaps. Such contracts are used to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. 71 Table of Contents As of February 15, 2010, our interest rate swaps pertaining to 2010 consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following table. Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 $ 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 $ 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 $ 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Income Taxes Our financial income tax rate in 2010 will vary materially depending on the actual amount of financial pre tax earnings. The tax rate for 2010 will be significantly affected by the proportional share of consolidated pre tax earnings generated by our United States and Canadian operations due to the different tax rates of each country. Also, certain tax deductions and credits will have a fixed impact on 2010 income tax expense regardless of the level of pre tax earnings that are produced. Additionally, significant changes in estimated capital expenditures, production levels of oil, gas and NGLs, the prices of such products, marketing and midstream revenues, or any of the various expense items could materially alter the effect of these tax deductions and credits on 2010 financial income tax rates. Given the uncertainty of pre tax earnings, we expect that our total financial income tax rate in 2010 will be between 20% and 40%. The current income tax rate is expected to be between 10% and 20%. The deferred income tax rate is expected to be between 10% and 20%. These ranges do not include the impact of current and deferred income taxes that will be recognized upon the completion of the 2010 asset divestitures. Discontinued Operations The following table shows the estimates for 2010 production, pricing, expenses and capital associated with our discontinued International operations for 2010. These estimates assume the sales will occur at the end of 2010. Pursuant to accounting rules for discontinued operations, the International assets will not be subject to DDA during 2010. Low High ($ in millions, except per Boe) Oil production (MMBbls) 14 16 Average oil price as a % of NYMEX 90 % 100 % LOE $ 190 $ 210 Taxes other than income taxes as % of revenue 10.25 % 11.25 % Accretion of asset retirement obligation $ 5 $ 5 Income tax rates: Current 20 % 30 % Deferred (5 )% % Total 15 % 30 % Development capital $ 220 $ 260 Exploration capital $ 240 $ 280 Total development exploration $ 460 $ 540 Other capital $ 80 $ 90 72 Table of Contents Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Capital Expenditures Though we have completed several major property acquisitions in recent years, these transactions are opportunity driven. Thus, we do not forecast, nor can we reasonably predict, the timing or size of such possible acquisitions. Our capital expenditures budget is based on an expected range of future oil, gas and NGL prices as well as the expected costs of the capital additions. Should actual prices received differ materially from our price expectations for our future production, some projects may be accelerated or deferred and, consequently, may increase or decrease total 2010 capital expenditures. In addition, if the actual material or labor costs of the budgeted items vary significantly from the anticipated amounts, actual capital expenditures could vary materially from our estimates. Given the limitations discussed above, the following table shows expected ranges for drilling, development and facilities expenditures by geographic area. Development capital includes development activity related to reserves classified as proved and drilling that does not offset currently productive units and for which there is not a certainty of continued production from a known productive formation. Exploration capital includes exploratory drilling to find and produce oil or gas in previously untested fault blocks or new reservoirs. U.S. North American U.S. Onshore Canada Onshore Offshore Total (In millions) Development capital $ 2,210 $2,470 $ 1,010 $1,140 $ 3,220 $3,610 $ 420 $500 $ 3,640 $4,110 Exploration capital $ 520 $560 $ 20 $30 $ 540 $590 $ 100 $120 $ 640 $710 Total $ 2,730 $3,030 $ 1,030 $1,170 $ 3,760 $4,200 $ 520 $620 $ 4,280 $4,820 In addition to the above expenditures for drilling, development and facilities, we expect to capitalize between $330 million and $350 million of GA expenses in accordance with the full cost method of accounting and to capitalize between $45 million and $55 million of interest. We also expect to pay between $80 million and $90 million for plugging and abandonment charges. Additionally, we expect to spend between $380 million and $430 million on our marketing and midstream assets, which primarily include our oil pipelines, gas processing plants, and gas pipeline systems. We expect to spend between $385 million and $435 million for corporate and other fixed assets. Other Cash Uses Our management expects the policy of paying a quarterly common stock dividend to continue. With the current $0.16 per share quarterly dividend rate and 447 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009, dividends are expected to approximate $286 million. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our estimated 2010 cash uses, including our capital activities, are expected to be funded primarily through a combination of our existing cash balances and operating cash flow. Another major source of liquidity will be proceeds from the divestiture of our offshore operations, which we estimate will range from $4.5 billion to $7.5 billion after taxes. The amount of operating cash flow to be generated during 2010 is uncertain due to the factors affecting revenues and expenses as previously cited. The amount of divestiture proceeds we ultimately receive is also uncertain. However, we expect our combined capital resources will be adequate to fund our anticipated capital expenditures and other cash uses for 2010. Additionally, we can borrow commercial paper or access our lines of credit, which had an available capacity of approximately $2.0 billion as of February 15, 2010, to fund planned or additional capital activities. 73 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The following disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than speculative trading. Commodity Price Risk Our major market risk exposure is in the pricing applicable to our oil, gas and NGL production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to our U.S. and Canadian gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil, gas and NGL production has been volatile and unpredictable for several years. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Consequently, we periodically enter into financial hedging activities with respect to a portion of our oil and gas production through various financial transactions that hedge the future prices received. These transactions include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Based on gas price contracts in place as of December 31, 2009, we have approximately 1.3 Bcf per day of gas production in 2010 that is associated with price swaps or fixed price contracts. This amount represents approximately 50% of our estimated 2010 gas production. As of December 31, 2009, we also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2010 gas production. All of the gas price swap contracts expire December 31, 2010. The key terms of our gas price contracts are presented in the following tables. 2010 Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 1,265,000 $ 6.16 2010 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential Volume to Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year AECO 150,000 $ 0.33 Total year CIG 70,000 $ 0.37 Based on oil price collar contracts in place as of December 31, 2009, we have hedged 79,000 barrels of oil per day for 2010. This amount represents approximately 65% of our estimated 2010 oil production. The key terms of our oil collar contracts are presented in the following table. 2010 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 79,000 $ 65.00 $70.00 $ 67.47 $ 90.35 $103.30 $ 96.48 The fair values of our gas price and basis swaps and oil collars are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of relevant oil and gas price indexes. At December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased the fair value of our gas price swaps by approximately $264 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil collars would have decreased the fair value of these instruments by approximately $108 million. 74 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2009, we had debt outstanding of $7.3 billion. Of this amount, $5.9 billion, or 80%, bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.2%. Additionally, we had $1.4 billion of outstanding commercial paper, bearing interest at floating rates which averaged 0.29%. As of December 31, 2009, our interest rate swaps consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $1.85 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate of 3.99% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 $ 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 $ 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 $ 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 700 3.99 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 The fair values of our interest rate instruments are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the Federal Funds rate and LIBOR. At December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased our net assets by approximately $46 million. Foreign Currency Risk Our net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our Canadian subsidiaries are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the Canadian dollar functional currency. Assets and liabilities of the Canadian subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of a reporting period. Revenues, expenses and cash flow are translated using the average exchange rate during the reporting period. A 10% unfavorable change in the Canadian to U.S. dollar exchange rate would not materially impact our December 31, 2009 balance sheet. 75 Table of Contents 
 
