Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and elsewhere in this report. All subsequent written and oral forward looking statements attributable to Devon, or persons acting on its behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements. We assume no duty to update or revise our forward looking statements based on changes in internal estimates or expectations or otherwise. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Devon Energy Corporation, including its subsidiaries (Devon), is an independent energy company engaged primarily in exploration, development and production of natural gas and oil. Our operations are concentrated in various North American onshore areas in the United States and Canada. We also have offshore operations located in Brazil and Angola that are currently in the process of being divested. To complement our upstream oil and gas operations in North America, we have a large marketing and midstream operation. With these operations, we market gas, crude oil and NGLs. We also construct and operate pipelines, storage and treating facilities and natural gas processing plants. These midstream facilities are used to transport oil, gas, and NGLs and process natural gas. We began operations in 1971 as a privately held company. We have been publicly held since 1988, and our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Our principal and administrative offices are located at 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102 8260 (telephone 405/235 3611). Strategy As an enterprise, we aspire to be the premier independent natural gas and oil company in North America. To achieve this, we continuously strive to optimize value for our shareholders by growing cash flows, earnings, production and reserves, all on a per debt adjusted share basis. We do this by: exercising capital discipline; investing in oil and gas properties with high operating margins; balancing our reserves and production mix between natural gas and liquids; maintaining a low overall cost structure; improving performance through our marketing and midstream operations; and preserving financial flexibility. Over the decade leading up to 2010, we captured an abundance of resources by carrying out this strategy. We pioneered horizontal drilling in the Barnett Shale and extended this technique to other natural gas shale plays in the United States and Canada. We became proficient with steam assisted gravity drainage with our Jackfish oil sands development in Alberta, Canada. We achieved key oil discoveries with our drilling in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and offshore Brazil. We have tripled our proved oil and gas reserves since 2000, and have also assembled an extensive inventory of exploration assets representing additional unproved resources. Building off our past successes, in November 2009, we announced plans to strategically reposition Devon as a North American onshore exploration and production company. As part of this strategic repositioning, we are bringing forward the value of our offshore assets located in the Gulf of Mexico and countries outside North America by divesting them. As of the end of 2010, we had sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan, China and other International regions, generating $5.6 billion in after tax proceeds. Additionally, we have entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective governments to approve the divestitures. Once the pending transactions are complete, we expect to have generated more than $8 billion in after tax proceeds. This repositioning has allowed us to focus our operations on our premier portfolio of North American onshore assets. Historically, our North American onshore assets have consistently provided us our highest risk adjusted investment returns. By selling our offshore assets, we are able to conduct an aggressive, yet disciplined, pursuit of the untapped value of these North American onshore opportunities. More specifically, 5 Table of Contents given the current challenged market for natural gas prices, our near term focus is on the oil and liquids rich opportunities that exist within our balanced portfolio of properties. Besides investing in our onshore exploration and development opportunities, we are also using the divestiture proceeds to reduce our debt significantly and conduct up to a $3.5 billion common share repurchase program. Presentation of Discontinued Operations As a result of our November 2009 repositioning announcement, all amounts in this document related to our International operations are presented as discontinued. Therefore, financial data and operational data, such as reserves, production, wells and acreage, provided in this document exclude amounts related to our International operations unless otherwise provided. Our U.S. Offshore operations do not qualify as discontinued operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and operational data provided in this document that pertain to our continuing operations include amounts related to our U.S. Offshore operations that were divested in 2010. Where appropriate, we have presented amounts related to our U.S. Offshore assets separate from those of our North American Onshore assets. Development of Business Since our first issuance of common stock to the public in 1988, we have executed strategies that have been focused on growth and value creation for our shareholders. We increased our total proved reserves from 8 MMBoe at year end 1987 to 2,873 MMBoe at year end 2010. During this same time period, we increased annual production from 1 MMBoe in 1987 to 228 MMBoe in 2010. Our expansion over this time period is attributable to a focused mergers and acquisitions program spanning a number of years, as well as active and successful exploration and development programs in more recent years. Additionally, our growth has provided meaningful value creation for our shareholders. The growth statistics from 1987 to 2010 translate into annual per share growth rates of 8% for production and 11% for reserves. As a result of this growth, we have become one of the largest independent oil and gas companies in North America. During 2010, we continued to build off our past successes with a number of key accomplishments, including those discussed below. Drilling Success We drilled 1,584 gross wells in 2010 on our North American onshore properties with a 99% success rate. We increased oil and NGL production from our North American onshore properties by 6% in 2010, to an average of 193 MBoe per day. Cana Woodford Shale We drilled 87 wells in the Cana Woodford Shale play in western Oklahoma and more than doubled our industry leading leasehold position in the play to more than 240,000 net acres. Our 2010 production exit rate from the Cana Woodford increased more than 210% over the prior year to an average of 147 MMcf of gas equivalent per day, including 4 MBbls per day of liquids production. We also completed construction and commenced operation of our Cana gas processing plant in 2010. Permian Basin We exited 2010 with Permian production of 45 MBoe per day, which represented a 16% increase compared to 2009. We have nearly one million net acres of leasehold in the region targeting various oil and liquids rich play types. Jackfish In 2010, our net production from our Jackfish oil sands project averaged 25 MBbls per day. Following scheduled facilities maintenance in the third quarter and a third party pipeline system outage in the fourth quarter, our net Jackfish production ramped back up to 30 MBbls per day at year end. Construction of our second Jackfish project is now complete. We expect to begin injecting steam at Jackfish 2 in the second quarter, with first oil production expected by the end of 2011. We applied for regulatory approval of a third phase of Jackfish in the third quarter of 2010. 6 Table of Contents Pike We added to our Canadian oil position by acquiring a 50% interest in the Pike oil sands leases. The Pike acreage lies immediately adjacent to our highly successful Jackfish project and has estimated gross recoverable resources that may exceed Jackfish. We are the operator of the project and are currently drilling appraisal wells and acquiring seismic data. The drilling results and seismic will help us determine the optimal configuration for the initial phase of development. Barnett Shale Our 2010 production exit rate was 1.2 Bcfe per day, including 43 MBbls per day of liquids production. This represents a 16% increase in total production compared to the 2009 exit rate. Financial Information about Segments and Geographical Areas Notes 20 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report contain information on our segments and geographical areas. Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Marketing and Delivery Commitments The spot markets for oil, gas and NGLs are subject to volatility as supply and demand factors fluctuate. As detailed below, we sell our production under both long term (one year or more) or short term (less than one year) agreements. Regardless of the term of the contract, the vast majority of our production is sold at variable or market sensitive prices. Additionally, we may periodically enter into financial hedging arrangements or fixed price contracts associated with a portion of our oil and gas production. These activities are intended to support targeted price levels and to manage our exposure to price fluctuations. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Oil Marketing Our oil production is sold under both long term and short term agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although exact percentages vary daily, as of January 2011, approximately 81% of our oil production was sold under short term contracts at variable or market sensitive prices. The remaining 19% of oil production was sold under long term, market indexed contracts that are subject to market pricing variations. Natural Gas Marketing Our gas production is also sold under both long term and short term agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although exact percentages vary daily, as of January 2011, approximately 81% of our gas production was sold under short term contracts at variable or market sensitive prices. These market sensitive sales are referred to as spot market sales. Another 18% of our production was committed under various long term contracts, which dedicate the gas to a purchaser for an extended period of time, but still at market sensitive prices. The remaining 1% of our gas production was sold under long term, fixed price contracts. NGL Marketing Our NGL production is sold under both long term and short term agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although exact percentages vary, as of January 2011, approximately 83% of our NGL production was sold under short term contracts at variable or market sensitive prices. Approximately 9% of our NGL production was sold under short term, fixed price contracts. The remaining 8% of NGL production was sold under long term, market sensitive price contracts. 7 Table of Contents Delivery Commitments A portion of our production is sold under certain contractual arrangements that specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity. Although exact amounts vary, as of January 2011, we were committed to deliver the following fixed quantities of our oil and natural gas production: Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Oil (MMBbls) 210 14 41 43 112 Natural gas (Bcf) 607 226 223 103 55 NGLs (MMBbls) 13 13 Total (MMBoe)(1) 324 65 78 60 121 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil. NGLs are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. We expect to fulfill our delivery commitments over the next three years with production from our proved developed reserves. We expect to fulfill our longer term delivery commitments beyond three years primarily with our proved developed reserves. In certain regions, we expect to fulfill these longer term delivery commitments with our proved undeveloped reserves. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report for information related to our proved reserves, including the development of our proved undeveloped reserves. Our proved reserves have been sufficient to satisfy our delivery commitments during the three most recent years, and we expect such reserves will continue to satisfy our future delivery commitments. However, should our proved reserves not be sufficient to satisfy our future delivery commitments, we can and may use spot market purchases to fulfill the commitments. Marketing and Midstream Activities The primary objective of our marketing and midstream operations is to add value to us and other producers to whom we provide such services by gathering, processing and marketing oil, gas and NGL production in a timely and efficient manner. Our most significant midstream asset is the Bridgeport processing plant and gathering system located in north Texas. These facilities serve not only our gas production from the Barnett Shale but also gas production of other producers in the area. We have other natural gas processing plants that support our operations, including a plant completed in 2010 that serves the Cana Woodford Shale production. Our midstream assets also include our 50% interest in the Access Pipeline transportation system in Canada. This pipeline system allows us to blend our Jackfish heavy oil production with condensate or other blend stock and transport the combined product to the Edmonton area for sale. Our marketing and midstream revenues are primarily generated by: selling NGLs that are either extracted from the gas streams processed by our plants or purchased from third parties for marketing, and selling or gathering gas that moves through our transport pipelines and unrelated third party pipelines. Our marketing and midstream costs and expenses are primarily incurred from: purchasing the gas streams entering our transport pipelines and plants; purchasing fuel needed to operate our plants, compressors and related pipeline facilities; purchasing third party NGLs; operating our plants, gathering systems and related facilities; and transporting products on unrelated third party pipelines. 8 Table of Contents Customers We sell our gas production to a variety of customers including pipelines, utilities, gas marketing firms, industrial users and local distribution companies. Gathering systems and interstate and intrastate pipelines are used to consummate gas sales and deliveries. The principal customers for our crude oil production are refiners, remarketers and other companies, some of which have pipeline facilities near the producing properties. In the event pipeline facilities are not conveniently available, crude oil is trucked or shipped to storage, refining or pipeline facilities. Our NGL production is primarily sold to customers engaged in petrochemical, refining and heavy oil blending activities. Pipelines, railcars and trucks are utilized to move our products to market. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, no purchaser accounted for over 10% of our revenues. Seasonal Nature of Business Generally, the demand for natural gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers sometimes lessen this fluctuation. In addition, pipelines, utilities, local distribution companies and industrial users utilize natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer. This can also lessen seasonal demand fluctuations. Public Policy and Government Regulation The oil and natural gas industry is subject to various types of regulation throughout the world. Laws, rules, regulations and other policy implementations affecting the oil and natural gas industry have been pervasive and are under constant review for amendment or expansion. Pursuant to public policy changes, numerous government agencies have issued extensive laws and regulations binding on the oil and natural gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Such laws and regulations have a significant impact on oil and gas exploration, production and marketing and midstream activities. These laws and regulations increase the cost of doing business and, consequently, affect profitability. Because public policy changes affecting the oil and natural gas industry are commonplace and because existing laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws and regulations. However, we do not expect that any of these laws and regulations will affect our operations in a manner materially different than they would affect other oil and natural gas companies of similar size and financial strength. During 2010, as part of a strategic restructuring of the company, we sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico and the majority of our assets outside North America, Additionally, we have entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective governments to approve the divestitures. These divestitures reduce our vulnerability to laws, rules and regulations imposed by foreign governments, as well as those imposed in the United States for offshore exploration and production. The following are significant areas of government control and regulation affecting our operations in the United States and Canada. Exploration and Production Regulation Our oil and gas operations are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations relate to matters that include, but are not limited to: acquisition of seismic data; location of wells; drilling and casing of wells; hydraulic fracturing; 9 Table of Contents well production; spill prevention plans; emissions and discharge permitting; use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and materials incidental to oil and gas operations; surface usage and the restoration of properties upon which wells have been drilled; calculation and disbursement of royalty payments and production taxes; plugging and abandoning of wells; and transportation of production. Our operations also are subject to conservation regulations, including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units; the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit; the rate of production allowable from oil and gas wells; and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In the United States, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration, while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases, which may make it more difficult to develop oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws generally limit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratable purchase of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of oil and gas we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill. Certain of our U.S. natural gas and oil leases are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior. Such leases require compliance with detailed federal regulations and orders that regulate, among other matters, drilling and operations on lands covered by these leases, and calculation and disbursement of royalty payments to the federal government. The federal government has been particularly active in recent years in evaluating and, in some cases, promulgating new rules and regulations regarding competitive lease bidding and royalty payment obligations for production from federal lands. Royalties and Incentives in Canada The royalty system in Canada is a significant factor in the profitability of oil and gas production. Royalties payable on production from lands other than Crown lands are determined by negotiations between the parties. Crown royalties are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, with the royalty rate dependent in part upon prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location and the type and quality of the petroleum product produced. From time to time, the federal and provincial governments of Canada also have established incentive programs such as royalty rate reductions, royalty holidays, tax credits and fixed rate and profit sharing royalties for the purpose of encouraging oil and gas exploration or enhanced recovery projects. These incentives generally have the effect of increasing our revenues, earnings and cash flow. Pricing and Marketing in Canada Any oil or gas export to be made pursuant to an export contract that exceeds a certain duration or a certain quantity requires an exporter to obtain export authorizations from Canadas National Energy Board (NEB). The governments of Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan also regulate the volume of natural gas that may be removed from those provinces for consumption elsewhere. 10 Table of Contents Environmental and Occupational Regulations We are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal and local international laws and regulations concerning occupational safety and health as well as the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. Environmental laws and regulations relate to, among other things: assessing the environmental impact of seismic acquisition, drilling or construction activities; the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of waste materials; the emission of certain gases into the atmosphere; the monitoring, abandonment, reclamation and remediation of well and other sites, including sites of former operations; and the development of emergency response and spill contingency plans. The application of worldwide standards, such as ISO 14000 governing environmental management systems, is required to be implemented for some international oil and gas operations. We consider the costs of environmental protection and safety and health compliance necessary and manageable parts of our business. We have been able to plan for and comply with environmental, safety and health initiatives without materially altering our operating strategy or incurring significant unreimbursed expenditures. However, based on regulatory trends and increasingly stringent laws, our capital expenditures and operating expenses related to the protection of the environment and safety and health compliance have increased over the years and will likely continue to increase. We cannot predict with any reasonable degree of certainty our future exposure concerning such matters. We maintain levels of insurance customary in the industry to limit our financial exposure in the event of a substantial environmental claim resulting from sudden, unanticipated and accidental discharges of oil, salt water or other substances. However, we do not maintain 100% coverage concerning any environmental claim, and no coverage is maintained with respect to any penalty or fine required to be paid because of a violation of law. In 2010, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued rules requiring oil and natural gas companies to track and report their greenhouse gas emissions. For Devon, this involves collecting emissions data at more than 17,000 well sites and numerous natural gas plants and compressor stations. While these rules increase our cost of doing business, we do not anticipate that we would be impacted to any greater degree than other similar oil and natural gas companies. The Kyoto Protocol was adopted by numerous countries in 1997 and implemented in 2005. The Protocol requires reductions of certain emissions of greenhouse gases. Although the United States has not ratified the Protocol, the other countries in which we operate have. In 2007, Canada ratified the Kyoto Protocol and committed to reducing Canadas greenhouse gas emissions. This commitment was renewed by signing the Copenhagen Accord in 2009 and the Cancun Agreement in 2010. Although there is no framework in place, Canada remains focused on the original reduction target of the Kyoto Protocol and is working to align greenhouse gas policy with the United States. The mandatory reductions on greenhouse gas emissions will create additional costs for the Canadian oil and gas industry, including Devon. Provincially, British Columbia and Alberta have greenhouse gas legislation and regulation that carry some compliance burden for the oil and gas sector. Presently, it is not possible to accurately estimate the costs we could incur to comply with any future laws or regulations developed to achieve emissions reductions in Canada or elsewhere, but such expenditures could be substantial. In 2006, we established our Corporate Climate Change Position and Strategy. Key components of the strategy include initiation of energy efficiency measures, tracking emerging climate change legislation and publication of a corporate greenhouse gas emission inventory. We last published our emission inventory on January 2008. We will publish another emission inventory on or before March 31, 2011 to comply with a reporting mandate issued by the EPA. Additionally, we continue to explore energy efficiency measures and 11 Table of Contents greenhouse emission reduction opportunities. We also continue to monitor legislative and regulatory climate change developments, such as the proposals described above. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 5,000 employees. We consider labor relations with our employees to be satisfactory. We have not had any work stoppages or strikes pertaining to our employees. Competition See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Availability of Reports Through our website, http://www.devonenergy.com, we make available electronic copies of the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors, other documents related to our corporate governance (including our Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer), and documents we file or furnish to the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, and current reports on Form 8 K, as well as any amendments to these reports. Access to these electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing them to the SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other governance documents and filings can be requested by writing to our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this report. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities, and the oil and gas industry in general, are subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risk factors should occur, our profitability, financial condition or liquidity could be materially impacted. As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of their investment in Devon. Oil, Gas and NGL Prices are Volatile Our financial results are highly dependent on the general supply and demand for oil, gas and NGLs, which impact the prices we ultimately realize on our sales of these commodities. A significant downward movement of the prices for these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating cash flows and profitability. Such a downward price movement could also have a material adverse effect on our estimated proved reserves, the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, the level of planned drilling activities and future growth. Historically, market prices and our realized prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future due to numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: consumer demand for oil, gas and NGLs; conservation efforts; OPEC production levels; weather; regional pricing differentials; differing quality of oil produced (i.e., sweet crude versus heavy or sour crude); differing quality and NGL content of gas produced; the level of imports and exports of oil, gas and NGLs; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the overall economic environment; and governmental regulations and taxes. 12 Table of Contents Estimates of Oil, Gas and NGL Reserves are Uncertain The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir, particularly for new discoveries. Because of the high degree of judgment involved, different reserve engineers may develop different estimates of reserve quantities and related revenue based on the same data. In addition, the reserve estimates for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of several factors including additional development activity, the viability of production under varying economic conditions and variations in production levels and associated costs. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur as a result of changes in any of these factors. Such revisions to proved reserves could have a material adverse effect on our estimates of future net revenue, as well as our financial condition and profitability. Additional discussion of our policies and internal controls related to estimating and recording reserves is described in Item 2. Properties Preparation of Reserves Estimates and Reserves Audits. Discoveries or Acquisitions of Additional Reserves are Needed to Avoid a Material Decline in Reserves and Production The production rates from oil and gas properties generally decline as reserves are depleted, while related per unit production costs generally increase, due to decreasing reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, our estimated proved reserves and future oil, gas and NGL production will decline materially as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional producing zones in existing wells, secondary or tertiary recovery techniques, or acquire additional properties containing proved reserves. Consequently, our future oil, gas and NGL production and related per unit production costs are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. Future Exploration and Drilling Results are Uncertain and Involve Substantial Costs Substantial costs are often required to locate and acquire properties and drill exploratory wells. Such activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. The costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain. In addition, oil and gas properties can become damaged or drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors including, but not limited to: unexpected drilling conditions; pressure or irregularities in reservoir formations; equipment failures or accidents; fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering; adverse weather conditions; lack of access to pipelines or other transportation methods; environmental hazards or liabilities; and shortages or delays in the availability of services or delivery of equipment. A significant occurrence of one of these factors could result in a partial or total loss of our investment in a particular property. In addition, drilling activities may not be successful in establishing proved reserves. Such a failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. While both exploratory and developmental drilling activities involve these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. 13 Table of Contents Industry Competition For Leases, Materials, People and Capital Can Be Significant Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas industry. We compete with major integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of oil and gas leases and properties. We also compete for the equipment and personnel required to explore, develop and operate properties. Competition is also prevalent in the marketing of oil, gas and NGLs. Typically, during times of high or rising commodity prices, drilling and operating costs will also increase. Higher prices will also generally increase the costs of properties available for acquisition. Certain of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially larger than ours. They also may have established strategic long term positions and relationships in areas in which we may seek new entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for oil and gas production, such as changing worldwide price and production levels, the cost and availability of alternative fuels, and the application of government regulations. Midstream Capacity Constraints and Interruptions Impact Commodity Sales We rely on midstream facilities and systems to process our natural gas production and to transport our production to downstream markets. Such midstream systems include the systems we operate, as well as systems operated by a number of different third parties. When possible, we gain access to midstream systems that provide the most advantageous downstream market prices available to us. Regardless of who operates the midstream systems we rely upon, a portion of our production in any region may be interrupted or shut in from time to time due to loss of access to plants, pipelines or gathering systems. Such access could be lost due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, weather conditions, accidents, field labor issues or strikes. Additionally, we and third parties may be subject to constraints that limit our ability to construct, maintain or repair midstream facilities needed to process and transport our production. Such interruptions or constraints could negatively impact our production and associated profitability. Hedging Activities Limit Participation in Commodity Price Increases and Increase Exposure to Counterparty Credit Risk We periodically enter into hedging activities with respect to a portion of our production to manage our exposure to oil, gas and NGL price volatility. To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities to protect ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of commodity price increases above the prices established by our hedging contracts. In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our hedging contracts fail to perform under the contracts. Public Policy, Which Includes Laws, Rules and Regulations, Can Change Our operations are generally subject to federal laws, rules and regulations in the United States and Canada. In addition, we are also subject to the laws and regulations of various states, provinces, tribal and local governments. Pursuant to public policy changes, numerous government departments and agencies have issued extensive rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Changes in such public policy have affected, and at times in the future could affect, our operations. Political developments can restrict production levels, enact price controls, change environmental protection requirements, and increase taxes, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies. Existing laws and regulations can also require us to incur substantial costs to maintain regulatory compliance. Our operating and other compliance costs could increase further if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Although we are unable to predict changes to existing laws and regulations, such changes could significantly impact our profitability, financial condition and liquidity, particularly changes related to hydraulic fracturing, income taxes and climate change as discussed below. 14 Table of Contents Hydraulic Fracturing The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Currently, regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state level through permitting and other compliance requirements. This legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level. Income Taxes The U.S. Presidents recent budget proposals include provisions that would, if enacted, make significant changes to United States tax laws. The most significant change would eliminate the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs. Climate Change Policy makers in the United States are increasingly focusing on whether the emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane, are contributing to harmful climatic changes. Policy makers at both the United States federal and state level have introduced legislation and proposed new regulations that are designed to quantify and limit the emission of greenhouse gases through inventories and limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. Legislative initiatives to date have focused on the development of cap and trade programs. These programs generally would cap overall greenhouse gas emissions on an economy wide basis and require major sources of greenhouse gas emissions or major fuel producers to acquire and surrender emission allowances. Cap and trade programs would be relevant to our operations because the equipment we use to explore for, develop, produce and process oil and natural gas emits greenhouse gases. Additionally, the combustion of carbon based fuels, such as the oil, gas and NGLs we sell, emits carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. Environmental Matters and Costs Can Be Significant As an owner, lessee or operator of oil and gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal and local laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution clean up resulting from our operations in affected areas. Any future environmental costs of fulfilling our commitments to the environment are uncertain and will be governed by several factors, including future changes to regulatory requirements. There is no assurance that changes in or additions to public policy regarding the protection of the environment will not have a significant impact on our operations and profitability. Insurance Does Not Cover All Risks Exploration, development, production and processing of oil, gas and NGLs can be hazardous and involve unforeseen occurrence including, but not limited to blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control. These occurrences can result in damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the environment. We maintain insurance against certain losses or liabilities in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be prudent. However, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. International Operations Have Uncertain Political, Economic and Other Risks Our operations outside North America are based in Brazil and Angola. As noted earlier in this report, we are in the process of divesting our operations outside North America. However, until we cease operating in these locations, we face political and economic risks and other uncertainties in these areas that are more prevalent than what exist for our operations in North America. Such factors include, but are not limited to: general strikes and civil unrest; the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts; import and export regulations; 15 Table of Contents taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions; transportation regulations and tariffs; exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments or the movement of funds; laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, including trade sanctions; the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we currently operate; the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations. Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or be lost. These assets may affect our overall business and results of operations by distracting managements attention from our more significant assets. Various regions of the world have a history of political and economic instability. This instability could result in new governments or the adoption of new policies that might result in a substantially more hostile attitude toward foreign investment. In an extreme case, such a change could result in termination of contract rights and expropriation of foreign owned assets. This could adversely affect our interests and our future profitability. The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against terrorist activities. Certain of Our Investments Are Subject To Risks That May Affect Their Liquidity and Value To maximize earnings on available cash balances, we periodically invest in securities that we consider to be short term in nature and generally available for short term liquidity needs. During 2007, we purchased asset backed securities that have an auction rate reset feature (auction rate securities). Our auction rate securities generally have contractual maturities of more than 20 years. However, the underlying interest rates on our securities are scheduled to reset every seven to 28 days. Therefore, when we bought these securities, they were generally priced and subsequently traded as short term investments because of the interest rate reset feature. At December 31, 2010, our auction rate securities totaled $94 million. Since February 8, 2008, we have experienced difficulty selling our securities due to the failure of the auction mechanism, which provided liquidity to these securities. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not do so. The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest and be auctioned every seven to 28 days until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities or the securities mature. Due to continued auction failures throughout 2009 and 2010, we consider these investments to be long term in nature and generally not available for short term liquidity needs. Therefore, we have classified these investments as other long term assets. Our auction rate securities are rated AAA the highest rating by one or more rating agencies and are collateralized by student loans that are substantially guaranteed by the United States government. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by problems in the global credit markets, including but not limited to, U.S. subprime mortgage defaults and writedowns by major financial institutions due to deteriorating values of their asset portfolios. These and other 16 Table of Contents related factors have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. If issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, our ability to liquidate these securities and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited. Under such circumstances, we may record an impairment charge on these investments in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties Property Overview Our oil and gas operations are concentrated within various North American onshore basins across the United States and Canada. Our properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases and mineral acreage in these regions. These ownership interests entitle us to drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs from specific areas. Our interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, mineral, and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties. As previously mentioned, we have completed substantially all of our offshore divestitures, with the exception of assets in Brazil and Angola. We have entered into agreements to sell these assets and are waiting for the respective governments to approve the divestitures. We also have a substantial midstream business that includes natural gas and NGL processing plants and pipeline systems across North America. In aggregate, we have ownership in approximately 13,000 miles of pipeline and 65 natural gas processing and treating plants. Our most significant concentration of midstream assets is located in north Texas at our Barnett Shale field. These assets include over 3,000 miles of pipeline, two natural gas processing plants with 750 MMcf per day of total capacity, and a 15 MBbls per day NGL fractionator. In 2010, we completed construction of a natural gas processing plant to support the growing development of our Cana Woodford Shale properties. The Cana plant has an initial capacity of 200 MMcf per day with the design capacity to expand up to 600 MMcf per day. Our midstream assets also include the Access Pipeline transportation system in Canada. This 220 mile dual pipeline system extends from our Jackfish operations in Alberta with connectivity to a 350 MBbls storage terminal near Edmonton. The dual pipeline system allows us to deliver diluents to Jackfish for the blending of our heavy oil production and transport the combined product to the Edmonton crude oil market for sale. We have a 50% ownership interest in the Access Pipeline. 17 Table of Contents The following sections provide additional details of our oil and gas properties, including information about proved reserves, production, wells, acreage and drilling activities. Property Profiles The locations of our key properties are presented on the following map. 18 Table of Contents The following table presents proved reserve information for our key properties as of December 31, 2010, along with their production volumes for the year 2010. Our key properties include those that currently have significant proved reserves or production. These key properties also include properties that do not have current significant levels of proved reserves or production, but are expected be the source of future significant growth in proved reserves and production. Proved Proved Reserves Reserves Production Production (MMBoe)(1) %(2) (MMBoe)(1) %(2) U.S. Barnett Shale 1,112 38.7 % 70 31.6 % Carthage 182 6.3 % 12 5.6 % Cana Woodford Shale 175 6.1 % 7 3.0 % Permian Basin 167 5.8 % 16 7.0 % Washakie 95 3.3 % 8 3.7 % Arkoma Woodford Shale 48 1.7 % 5 2.1 % Groesbeck 48 1.7 % 6 2.6 % Granite Wash 40 1.4 % 4 1.8 % Haynesville Bossier Shale 11 0.4 % 1 0.6 % Other U.S. Onshore 229 7.9 % 29 13.1 % Total U.S. Onshore 2,107 73.3 % 158 71.1 % Canada Jackfish 440 15.3 % 9 4.1 % Northwest 107 3.7 % 15 6.6 % Lloydminster 65 2.3 % 15 6.7 % Deep Basin 56 2.0 % 10 4.5 % Horn River Basin 11 0.4 % 1 0.2 % Pike Other Canada 87 3.0 % 15 6.8 % Total Canada 766 26.7 % 65 28.9 % North America Onshore 2,873 100.0 % 223 100.0 % (1) Gas reserves and production are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL reserves and production are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) Percentage of proved reserves and production the property bears to total proved reserves and production based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. The following profile information includes the location, acreage, formation type, average working interest and 2010 drilling activities of our key properties presented in the table above. Due to the continued depressed natural gas price environment, we are shifting the vast majority of our 2011 drilling activity to focus on the oil and liquids rich gas properties within our portfolio. For the key properties that are primarily liquids based, we also provide our 2011 drilling plans in the profile information below. U.S. Barnett Shale The Barnett Shale, located in north Texas, is our largest property both in terms of production and proved reserves. Our leases include approximately 630,000 net acres located primarily in Denton, Johnson, Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties. The Barnett Shale is a non conventional reservoir and it 19 Table of Contents produces natural gas and NGLs. We have an average working interest of 89%. We drilled 460 gross wells in 2010 and plan to drill approximately 320 gross wells in 2011. Carthage The Carthage area in east Texas includes primarily Harrison, Marion, Panola and Shelby counties. Our average working interest is 86% and we hold approximately 225,000 net acres. Our Carthage area wells produce primarily natural gas and NGLs from conventional reservoirs. We drilled 26 gross wells in 2010 in this area. Cana Woodford Shale The Cana Woodford Shale is located primarily in Canadian, Blaine, Caddo, and Dewey counties in western Oklahoma. Our average working interest is 52% and we hold more than 240,000 net acres. Our Cana Woodford Shale properties produce natural gas, NGLs and condensate from a non conventional reservoir. We drilled 87 gross wells in 2010 and plan to drill around 220 gross wells in 2011. Permian Basin Our oil and gas properties in the Permian Basin in west Texas and southeast New Mexico comprise approximately 950,000 net acres. Our drilling activity is targeting the liquids rich targets within the Avalon Shale, Bone Spring, Wolfberry and undisclosed play types within other conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in these properties is 53%. In 2010, we drilled 262 gross wells and plan to drill approximately 300 gross wells in 2011. Washakie Our Washakie area leases are concentrated in Carbon and Sweetwater counties in southern Wyoming. Our average working interest is about 76% and we hold about 160,000 net acres in the area. The Washakie wells produce primarily natural gas from conventional reservoirs. In 2010, we drilled 93 gross wells. Arkoma Woodford Shale Our Arkoma Woodford Shale properties in southeastern Oklahoma produce natural gas and NGLs from a non conventional reservoir. Our more than 55,000 net acres are concentrated in Coal and Hughes counties, and we have an average working interest of about 31%. In 2010, we drilled 61 gross wells in this area. Groesbeck The Groesbeck area of east Texas includes portions of Freestone, Leon, Limestone and Robertson counties. Our average working interest is 72% and we hold about 130,000 net acres of land. The Groesbeck wells produce primarily natural gas from conventional reservoirs. In 2010, we drilled 20 gross wells in this area. Granite Wash The Granite Wash is concentrated in Hemphill and Wheeler counties in the Texas Panhandle and in western Oklahoma. Our average working interest is approximately 48% and we hold approximately 60,000 net acres of land. The Granite Wash wells produce liquids and natural gas from conventional reservoirs. In 2010, we drilled 29 gross wells in this area and plan to drill approximately 55 gross wells in 2011. Haynesville Bossier Shale Our Haynesville Shale acreage position spans across east Texas and north Louisiana with an average working interest of 92%. To date, our drilling activity has been focused on approximately 150,000 acres located in Panola, Shelby and San Augustine counties in east Texas. We drilled 23 gross wells in 2010. Canada Jackfish Jackfish is our 100% owned thermal heavy oil project in the non conventional oil sands of east central Alberta. We are employing steam assisted gravity drainage at Jackfish. The first phase of Jackfish is fully operational with a gross facility capacity of 35 MBbls per day. We expect this project to maintain a flat production profile for greater than 20 years at an average net production rate of approximately 25 30 MBbls per day. We have completed construction of the second phase of Jackfish and we have filed a regulatory application for a third phase. The second and third phases of Jackfish are each expected to eventually produce approximately 30 MBbls per day of heavy oil production net of royalties over the life of the projects. Northwest The Northwest region includes acreage within west central Alberta and northeast British Columbia. We hold approximately 1.9 million net acres in the region, which produces primarily natural gas 20 Table of Contents from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the area is approximately 73%. In 2010, we drilled 67 gross wells and plan to drill about 50 gross wells in 2011. Lloydminster Our Lloydminster properties are located to the south and east of Jackfish in eastern Alberta and western Saskatchewan. Lloydminster produces heavy oil by conventional means without steam injection. We hold 2.4 million net acres and have an 89% average working interest in our Lloydminster properties. In 2010, we drilled 181 gross wells and plan to drill a similar amount of gross wells in 2011. Deep Basin Our properties in Canadas Deep Basin include portions of west central Alberta and east central British Columbia. We hold approximately 520,000 net acres in the Deep Basin. The area produces natural gas and liquids from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the Deep Basin is 43%. In 2010, we drilled 39 gross wells and plan to drill approximately 30 gross wells in 2011. Horn River Basin The Horn River Basin, located in northeast British Columbia, is a non conventional gas reservoir targeting the Devonian Shale. Our leases include approximately 170,000 net acres with a 100% working interest. We drilled 7 gross wells in 2010. Pike Our 50% owned Pike oil sands acreage is situated directly to the south of our Jackfish acreage in east central Alberta. This position was attained in 2010 through a joint venture agreement with BP. The Pike leasehold is currently undeveloped and has no proved reserves or production as of December 31, 2010. We began appraisal drilling near the end of 2010 and are acquiring seismic data. The drilling results and seismic will help us determine the optimal configuration for the initial phase of development. We expect to begin the regulatory application process for the first Pike phase around the end of 2011. Preparation of Reserves Estimates and Reserves Audits Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. To be considered proved, oil and gas reserves must be economically producible before contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. Also, the project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment as discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors. As a result, we have developed internal policies for estimating and recording reserves. Our policies regarding booking reserves require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance. Our policies assign responsibilities for compliance in reserves bookings to our Reserve Evaluation Group (the Group). These same policies also require that reserve estimates be made by professionally qualified reserves estimators (Qualified Estimators), as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers standards. The Group, which is led by Devons Director of Reserves and Economics, is responsible for the internal review and certification of reserves estimates. We ensure the Groups Director and key members of the Group have appropriate technical qualifications to oversee the preparation of reserves estimates. Such qualifications include any or all of the following: an undergraduate degree in petroleum engineering from an accredited university, or equivalent; a petroleum engineering license, or similar certification; memberships in oil and gas industry or trade groups; and relevant experience estimating reserves. The current Director of the Group has all of the qualifications listed above. The current Director has been involved with reserves estimation in accordance with SEC definitions and guidance since 1987. He has experience in reserves estimation for projects in the United States (both onshore and offshore), as well as in Canada, Asia, the Middle East and South America. He has been employed by Devon for the past ten years, 21 Table of Contents including the past three in his current position as Director of Reserves and Economics. During his career with Devon and others, he was the primary reservoir engineer for projects including, but not limited to: Hugoton Gas Field (Kansas) Sho Vel Tum CO2 Flood (Oklahoma) West Loco Hills Unit Waterflood and CO2 Flood (New Mexico) Dagger Draw Oil Field (New Mexico) Clarke Lake Gas Field (Alberta, Canada) Panyu 4 2 and 5 1 Joint Development (Offshore South China Sea) ACG Unit (Caspian Sea) As the primary reservoir engineer, he was responsible for reserves estimation on each of these projects. These reserves estimates were utilized internally and for SEC filings. From 2003 to 2010, he served as the reservoir engineering representative on our internal Peer Review Team, reviewing reserves and resource estimates for projects including, but not limited to: Mobile Bay Norphlet Discoveries (Gulf of Mexico Shelf) Cascade Lower Tertiary Development (Gulf of Mexico Deepwater) Polvo Development (Campos Basin, Brazil) Additionally, the Group reports independently of any of our operating divisions. The Groups Director reports to our Vice President of Budget and Reserves, who reports to our Chief Financial Officer. No portion of the Groups compensation is directly dependent on the quantity of reserves booked. Throughout the year, the Group performs internal audits of each operating divisions reserves. Selection criteria of reserves that are audited include major fields and major additions and revisions to reserves. In addition, the Group reviews reserve estimates with each of the third party petroleum consultants discussed below. The Group also ensures our Qualified Estimators obtain continuing education related to the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments. The Group also oversees audits and reserves estimates performed by third party consulting firms. During 2010, we engaged two such firms to audit a significant portion of our proved reserves. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. audited the 2010 reserve estimates for 94% of our U.S. onshore properties. AJM Petroleum Consultants audited 89% of our Canadian reserves. Set forth below is a summary of the North American reserves that were evaluated, either by preparation or audit, by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2010, 2009 and 2008. 2010 2009 2008 Prepared Audited Prepared Audited Prepared Audited U.S. Onshore 94 % 93 % 92 % U.S. Offshore N/A N/A 100 % 100 % Total U.S. 94 % 5 % 89 % 5 % 87 % Canada 89 % 91 % 78 % Total North America 93 % 3 % 89 % 4 % 85 % N/A Not applicable We sold all our U.S. Offshore properties during 2010. Prepared reserves are those quantities of reserves that were prepared by an independent petroleum consultant. Audited reserves are those quantities of reserves that were estimated by our employees and audited by an independent petroleum consultant. The Society of Petroleum Engineers definition of an audit is an examination of a companys proved oil and gas reserves and net cash flow by an independent petroleum 22 Table of Contents consultant that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such estimates, in aggregate, are reasonable and have been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation methods and procedures. In addition to conducting these internal and external reviews, we also have a Reserves Committee that consists of three independent members of our Board of Directors. This committee provides additional oversight of our reserves estimation and certification process. The Reserves Committee assists the Board of Directors with its duties and responsibilities in evaluating and reporting our proved reserves, much like our Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in supervising our audit and financial reporting requirements. Besides being independent, the members of our Reserves Committee also have educational backgrounds in geology or petroleum engineering, as well as experience relevant to the reserves estimation process. The Reserves Committee meets a minimum of twice a year to discuss reserves issues and policies, and meets separately with our senior reserves engineering personnel and our independent petroleum consultants at those meetings. The responsibilities of the Reserves Committee include the following: approve the scope of and oversee an annual review and evaluation of our consolidated oil, gas and NGL reserves; oversee the integrity of our reserves evaluation and reporting system; oversee and evaluate, prepare and disclose our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to our oil, gas and NGL reserves; review the qualifications and independence of our independent engineering consultants; and monitor the performance of our independent engineering consultants. Proved Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Reserves The following table presents our estimated proved reserves by continent and for each significant country as of December 31, 2010. These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations in Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Proved Reserves United States 148 9,065 449 2,107 Canada 533 1,218 30 766 Total North America 681 10,283 479 2,873 Proved Developed Reserves United States 131 7,280 353 1,696 Canada 126 1,144 28 346 Total North America 257 8,424 381 2,042 Proved Undeveloped Reserves United States 17 1,785 96 411 Canada 407 74 2 420 Total North America 424 1,859 98 831 (1) Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil. This rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of natural gas and oil prices. Natural gas liquids reserves are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. 23 Table of Contents No estimates of our proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of 2010 except in filings with the SEC and the Department of Energy (DOE). Reserve estimates filed with the SEC correspond with the estimates of our reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of our reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that we operate and to exclude all interests in wells that we do not operate. Proved Developed Reserves As presented in the previous table, we had 2,042 MMBoe of proved developed reserves at December 31, 2010. Proved developed reserves consist of proved developed producing reserves and proved developed non producing reserves. The following table provides additional information regarding our proved developed reserves at December 31, 2010. Natural Oil Natural Gas Gas Liquids Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Proved Developed Producing Reserves United States 123 6,702 318 1,557 Canada 116 1,031 25 314 Total North America 239 7,733 343 1,871 Proved Developed Non Producing Reserves United States 8 578 35 139 Canada 10 113 3 32 Total North America 18 691 38 171 (1) Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil. This rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of natural gas and oil prices. Natural gas liquids reserves are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. Proved Undeveloped Reserves The following table presents the changes in our total proved undeveloped reserves during 2010 (in MMBoe). Proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2009 811 Extensions and discoveries 145 Revisions due to prices 13 Revisions other than price (8 ) Sale of reserves (39 ) Conversion to proved developed reserves (91 ) Proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2010 831 At December 31, 2010, we had 831 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves. This represents a 2% increase as compared to 2009 and represents 29% of our total proved reserves. A large contributor to the increase was our 2010 drilling activities, which increased our proved undeveloped reserves 145 MMBoe. The divestiture of our Gulf of Mexico properties reduced our proved undeveloped reserves by 39 MMBoe. As a result of 2010 development activities, we converted 91 MMBoe, or 11%, of the 2009 proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. This conversion rate implies a nine year development cycle, which exceeds the five year general guideline for recording proved undeveloped reserves. However, our 24 Table of Contents overall proved undeveloped conversion rate is largely impacted by the pace of development at Jackfish. Excluding our Jackfish reserves, our 2010 proved undeveloped conversion rate implies a development cycle that approximates five years. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, our Jackfish proved undeveloped reserves were 396 MMBoe and 351 MMBoe, respectively. Development schedules for the Jackfish reserves are primarily controlled by the need to keep the processing plants at their full capacity of 35,000 barrels of oil per day per facility. Processing plant capacity is controlled by factors such as total steam processing capacity, steam oil ratios and air quality discharge permits. As a result, these reserves will remain classified as proved undeveloped for more than five years. Currently, the development schedule for these reserves extends though the year 2025. We have made significant funding commitments toward the development of the Jackfish reserves. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report for further discussion of the contributions by project area of all changes to total proved reserves. Proved Reserves Cash Flows The following table presents estimated cash flow information related to our December 31, 2010 estimated proved reserves. Similar to reserves, the cash flow estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations in Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Total Proved Proved Proved Developed Undeveloped Reserves Reserves Reserves (In millions) Pre Tax Future Net Revenue(1) United States $ 27,650 $ 23,640 $ 4,010 Canada 19,173 7,222 11,951 Total North America $ 46,823 $ 30,862 $ 15,961 Pre Tax 10% Present Value(1) United States $ 12,863 $ 12,093 $ 770 Canada 9,622 5,216 4,406 Total North America $ 22,485 $ 17,309 $ 5,176 Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows(1)(2) United States $ 8,843 Canada 7,509 Total North America $ 16,352 (1) Estimated pre tax future net revenue represents estimated future revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and development costs and site restoration and abandonment charges. The amounts shown do not give effect to depreciation, depletion and amortization, or to non property related expenses such as debt service and income tax expense. Future net revenues are calculated using prices that represent the average of the first day of the month price for the 12 month period prior to December 31, 2010. These prices were not changed except where different prices were fixed and determinable from applicable contracts. These assumptions yielded average prices over the life of our properties of $59.94 per Bbl of oil, $3.73 per Mcf of gas and $31.11 per Bbl of NGLs. The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods 25 Table of Contents indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced. The present value of after tax future net revenues discounted at 10% per annum (standardized measure) was $16.4 billion at the end of 2010. Included as part of standardized measure were discounted future income taxes of $6.1 billion. Excluding these taxes, the present value of our pre tax future net revenue (pre tax 10% present value) was $22.5 billion. We believe the pre tax 10% present value is a useful measure in addition to the after tax standardized measure. The pre tax 10% present value assists in both the determination of future cash flows of the current reserves as well as in making relative value comparisons among peer companies. The after tax standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company, while the pre tax 10% present value is based on prices and discount factors, which are more consistent from company to company. We also understand that securities analysts use the pre tax 10% present value measure in similar ways. (2) See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Production, Production Prices and Production Costs The following tables present our production and average sales prices by continent and for each significant field and country for the past three years. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Oil Natural Gas NGLs Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Production Barnett Shale 1 335 13 70 Other United States fields 15 381 15 93 Total United States 16 716 28 163 Jackfish 9 9 Other Canada fields 16 214 4 56 Total Canada 25 214 4 65 Total North America 41 930 32 228 Oil Natural Gas NGLs Combined(1) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Production Prices Barnett Shale $ 77.40 $ 3.55 $ 29.97 $ 23.48 Total United States $ 75.81 $ 3.76 $ 30.86 $ 29.06 Jackfish $ 52.51 $ 52.51 Total Canada $ 58.60 $ 4.11 $ 46.60 $ 39.11 Total North America $ 65.14 $ 3.84 $ 32.61 $ 31.91 26 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Oil Natural Gas NGLs Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Production Barnett Shale 331 13 69 Other United States fields 17 412 13 98 Total United States 17 743 26 167 Jackfish 8 8 Other Canada fields 17 223 4 58 Total Canada 25 223 4 66 Total North America 42 966 30 233 Oil Natural Gas NGLs Combined(1) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Production Prices Barnett Shale $ 58.78 $ 2.99 $ 22.36 $ 19.08 Total United States $ 57.56 $ 3.20 $ 23.51 $ 23.71 Jackfish $ 41.07 $ 41.07 Total Canada $ 47.35 $ 3.66 $ 33.09 $ 32.29 Total North America $ 51.39 $ 3.31 $ 24.71 $ 26.15 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Oil Natural Gas NGLs Total(1) (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) Production Barnett Shale 321 12 66 Other United States fields 17 405 12 96 Total United States 17 726 24 162 Jackfish 4 4 Other Canada fields 18 212 4 57 Total Canada 22 212 4 61 Total North America 39 938 28 223 Oil Natural Gas NGLs Combined(1) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Production Prices Barnett Shale $ 97.23 $ 7.38 $ 39.34 $ 43.71 Total United States $ 98.83 $ 7.59 $ 41.21 $ 50.55 Jackfish $ 50.67 $ 50.67 Total Canada $ 71.04 $ 8.17 $ 61.45 $ 57.65 Total North America $ 83.35 $ 7.73 $ 44.08 $ 52.49 (1) Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil. This rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of natural gas and oil prices. Natural gas liquids reserves are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. 27 Table of Contents The following table presents our production cost per Boe by continent and for each significant field and country for the past three years. Production costs do not include ad valorem or severance taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Barnett Shale $ 3.87 $ 3.96 $ 4.34 Total United States $ 5.47 $ 5.97 $ 6.62 Jackfish $ 16.81 $ 12.75 $ 28.93 Total Canada $ 12.37 $ 10.15 $ 12.74 Total North America $ 7.42 $ 7.16 $ 8.29 Drilling Activities and Results The following tables summarize our development and exploratory drilling results for the past three years. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Development Wells(1) Exploratory Wells(1) Total Wells(1) Productive Dry Productive Dry Productive Dry U.S. Onshore 853.2 5.3 23.4 1.5 876.6 6.8 U.S. Offshore 2.5 2.5 Total U.S. 855.7 5.3 23.4 1.5 879.1 6.8 Canada 267.8 41.9 1.0 309.7 1.0 Total North America 1,123.5 5.3 65.3 2.5 1,188.8 7.8 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Development Wells(1) Exploratory Wells(1) Total Wells(1) Productive Dry Productive Dry Productive Dry U.S. Onshore 506.5 3.0 6.8 1.5 513.3 4.5 U.S. Offshore 1.5 0.8 0.5 1.5 1.3 Total U.S. 508.0 3.8 6.8 2.0 514.8 5.8 Canada 307.2 28.2 335.4 Total North America 815.2 3.8 35.0 2.0 850.2 5.8 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Development Wells(1) Exploratory Wells(1) Total Wells(1) Productive Dry Productive Dry Productive Dry U.S. Onshore 1,024.0 17.5 12.8 2.0 1,036.8 19.5 U.S. Offshore 9.0 1.0 0.8 1.8 9.8 2.8 Total U.S. 1,033.0 18.5 13.6 3.8 1,046.6 22.3 Canada 528.9 3.2 50.1 3.3 579.0 6.5 Total North America 1,561.9 21.7 63.7 7.1 1,625.6 28.8 (1) These well counts represent net wells completed during each year. Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests on the well. 28 Table of Contents The following table presents the results, as of February 1, 2011, of our wells that were in progress as of December 31, 2010. Productive Dry Still in Progress Total Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) U.S. 47 31.5 193 128.8 240 160.3 Canada 9 6.9 4 3.0 13 9.9 Total North America 56 38.4 197 131.8 253 170.2 (1) Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. (2) Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests on the well. Well Statistics The following table sets forth our producing wells as of December 31, 2010. Oil Wells Natural Gas Wells Total Wells Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) U.S. 7,864 2,741 19,719 13,125 27,583 15,866 Canada 4,980 3,798 5,534 3,258 10,514 7,056 Total North America 12,844 6,539 25,253 16,383 38,097 22,922 (1) Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. (2) Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests on the well. Acreage Statistics The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2010. The acreage in the table below includes 1.4 million, 0.5 million and 0.9 million net acres subject to leases that are scheduled to expire during 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Developed Undeveloped Total Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) Gross(1) Net(2) (In thousands) U.S. 3,249 2,179 6,683 3,806 9,932 5,985 Canada 3,647 2,258 7,571 5,013 11,218 7,271 Total North America 6,896 4,437 14,254 8,819 21,150 13,256 (1) Gross acres are the sum of all acres in which we own an interest. (2) Net acres are gross acres multiplied by our fractional working interests on the acreage. Operation of Properties The day to day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. We are the operator of 23,056 of our wells. As operator, we receive reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of our duties as well as monthly per well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area. In presenting our financial data, we record the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice. 29 Table of Contents Title to Properties Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. We believe that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business. As is customary in the industry, other than a preliminary review of local records, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisitions of undeveloped properties. Investigations, which generally include a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are involved in various routine legal proceedings incidental to our business. However, to our knowledge as of the date of this report, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which we are a party or to which any of our property is subject. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2010. 30 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE). On February 10, 2011, there were 12,704 holders of record of our common stock. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported by the NYSE during 2010 and 2009. Also, included are the quarterly dividends per share paid during 2010 and 2009. We began paying regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock in the second quarter of 1993. We anticipate continuing to pay regular quarterly dividends in the foreseeable future. Price Range of Common Stock Dividends High Low Per Share 2010: Quarter Ended March 31, 2010 $ 76.79 $ 62.38 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended June 30, 2010 $ 70.80 $ 58.58 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended September 30, 2010 $ 66.21 $ 59.07 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended December 31, 2010 $ 78.86 $ 63.76 $ 0.16 2009: Quarter Ended March 31, 2009 $ 73.11 $ 38.55 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended June 30, 2009 $ 67.40 $ 43.35 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended September 30, 2009 $ 72.91 $ 48.74 $ 0.16 Quarter Ended December 31, 2009 $ 75.05 $ 62.60 $ 0.16 31 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following performance graph compares the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total shareholder return on Devons common stock with the cumulative total returns of the Standard Poors 500 index (the SP 500 Index) and the group of companies included in the Crude Petroleum and Natural Gas Standard Industrial Classification code (the SIC Code). The graph was prepared based on the following assumptions: $100 was invested on December 31, 2005 in Devons common stock, the SP 500 Index and the SIC Code, and Dividends have been reinvested subsequent to the initial investment. Comparison of 5 Year Cumulative Total Return Devon, SP 500 Index and SIC Code The graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate such information by reference into such a filing. The graph and information is included for historical comparative purposes only and should not be considered indicative of future stock performance. 32 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table provides information regarding purchases of our common stock that were made by us during the fourth quarter of 2010. All purchases were part of publicly announced plans or programs. Maximum Dollar Value of Shares Total Number that May Yet Be of Shares Average Price Purchased Under the Period Purchased(1) Paid per Share Plans or Programs(1) (In millions) October 1 October 31 330,000 $ 65.64 $ 2,542 November 1 November 30 348,400 $ 71.36 $ 2,517 December 1 December 31 2,917,900 $ 74.82 $ 2,299 Total 3,596,300 $ 73.64 (1) In May 2010, our Board of Directors approved a $3.5 billion share repurchase program. This program expires December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, we had repurchased 18.3 million common shares for $1.2 billion, or $65.58 per share under this program. New York Stock Exchange Certifications This Form 10 K includes as exhibits the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. We have also filed with the New York Stock Exchange the 2010 annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer confirming that we have complied with the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance listing standards. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information (not covered by the report of our independent registered public accounting firm) should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share amounts) Revenues $ 9,940 $ 8,015 $ 13,858 $ 9,975 $ 9,143 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations(1) $ 2,333 $ (2,753 ) $ (3,039 ) $ 2,485 $ 2,316 Earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations Basic $ 5.31 $ (6.20 ) $ (6.86 ) $ 5.56 $ 5.22 Earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations Diluted $ 5.29 $ (6.20 ) $ (6.86 ) $ 5.50 $ 5.15 Cash dividends per common share $ 0.64 $ 0.64 $ 0.64 $ 0.56 $ 0.45 Total assets(1) $ 32,927 $ 29,686 $ 31,908 $ 41,456 $ 35,063 Long term debt $ 3,819 $ 5,847 $ 5,661 $ 6,924 $ 5,568 (1) During 2009 and 2008, we recorded noncash reductions of carrying value of oil and gas properties totaling $6.4 billion ($4.1 billion after income taxes) and $9.9 billion ($6.7 billion after income taxes), respectively, related to our continuing operations as discussed in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. 33 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The following discussion and analysis presents managements perspective of our business, financial condition and overall performance. This information is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our past performance, current financial condition and outlook for the future and should be reviewed in conjunction with our Selected Financial Data and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our discussion and analysis relates to the following subjects: Overview of Business Overview of 2010 Results Business and Industry Outlook Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Contingencies and Legal Matters Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Forward Looking Estimates Overview of Business Devon is one of North Americas leading independent oil and gas exploration and production companies. Our operations are focused in the United States and Canada. We also own natural gas pipelines and treatment facilities in many of our producing areas, making us one of North Americas larger processors of natural gas liquids. As an enterprise, we strive to optimize value for our shareholders by growing cash flows, earnings, production and reserves, all on a per debt adjusted share basis. We accomplish this by replenishing our reserves and production and managing other key operational elements that drive our success. These items are discussed more fully below. Reserves and production growth Our financial condition and profitability are significantly affected by the amount of proved reserves we own. Oil and gas properties are our most significant assets, and the reserves that relate to such properties are key to our future success. To increase our proved reserves, we must replace quantities produced with additional reserves from successful exploration and development activities or property acquisitions. Additionally, our profitability and operating cash flows are largely dependent on the amount of oil, gas and NGLs we produce. Growing production from existing properties is difficult because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. As a result, we constantly drill for and develop reserves on properties that provide a balance of near term and long term production. In addition, we may acquire properties with proved reserves that we can develop and subsequently produce to help create value. Capital investment discipline Effectively deploying our resources into capital projects is key to maintaining and growing future production and oil and gas reserves. As a result, we have historically deployed virtually all our available cash flow into capital projects. Therefore, maintaining a disciplined approach to investing in capital projects is important to our profitability and financial condition. Our ability to control capital expenditures can be affected by changes in commodity prices. During times of high commodity prices, drilling and related costs often escalate due to the effects of supply versus demand economics. The inverse is also true. High return projects We seek to invest our capital resources into projects where we can generate the highest risk adjusted investment returns. One factor that can have a significant impact on such returns is our drilling success. Combined with appropriate revenue and cost management strategies, 34 Table of Contents high drilling success rates are important to generating competitive returns on our capital investment. During 2010, we drilled 1,588 gross wells and 99% of those were successful. This success rate is similar to our drilling achievements in recent years, demonstrating a proven track record of success. By accomplishing high drilling success rates, we provide an inventory of reserves growth and a platform of opportunities on our undrilled acreage that can be profitably developed. Reserves and production balance As evidenced by history, commodity prices are inherently volatile. In addition, oil and gas prices often diverge due to a variety of circumstances. Consequently, we value a balance of reserves and production between gas and liquids that can add stability to our revenue stream when either commodity price is under pressure. Our production mix in 2010 was approximately 68% gas and 32% oil and NGLs such as propane, butane and ethane. Our year end reserves were approximately 60% gas and 40% liquids. With planned future growth in oil from Jackfish, Pike and other projects, combined with an inventory of shale natural gas plays, we expect to maintain this balance in the future. Operating cost controls To maintain our competitive position, we must control our lease operating costs and other production costs. As reservoirs are depleted and production rates decline, per unit production costs will generally increase and affect our profitability and operating cash flows. Similar to capital expenditures, our ability to control operating costs can be affected by significant changes in commodity prices. Our base production is focused in core areas of our operations where we can achieve economies of scale to help manage our operating costs. Marketing and midstream performance improvement We enhance the value of our oil and gas operations with our marketing and midstream business. By efficiently gathering and processing oil, gas and NGL production, our midstream operations enhance our project returns and contribute to our strategies to grow reserves and production and manage expenditures. Additionally, by effectively marketing our production, we maximize the prices received for our oil, gas and NGL production in relation to market prices. This is important because our profitability is highly dependent on market prices. These prices are determined primarily by market conditions. Market conditions for these products have been, and will continue to be, influenced by regional and worldwide economic and political conditions, weather, supply disruptions and other local market conditions that are beyond our control. To manage this volatility, we utilize financial hedging arrangements. As of February 10, 2011, approximately 29% of our 2011 gas production is associated with financial price swaps and fixed price physicals. We also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2011 gas production. Additionally, approximately 36% of our 2011 oil production is associated with financial price collars. We also have call options that, if exercised, would relate to an additional 16% of our 2011 oil production. Financial flexibility preservation As mentioned, commodity prices have been and will continue to be volatile and will continue to impact our profitability and cash flow. We understand this fact and manage our debt levels accordingly to preserve our liquidity and financial flexibility. We generally operate within the cash flow generated by our operations. However, during periods of low commodity prices, we may use our balance sheet strength to access debt or equity markets, allowing us to preserve our business and maintain momentum until markets recover. When prices improve, we can utilize excess operating cash flow to repay debt and invest in our activities that not only maintain but also increase value per share. Overview of 2010 Results 2010 was an outstanding year for Devon. We reported record net earnings and reserves and made significant progress on our offshore divestiture program announced in November 2009. We sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan, China and other International regions, generating $5.6 billion in after tax proceeds and after tax gains of $1.7 billion. Additionally, we have entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective governments to approve the 35 Table of Contents divestitures. Once the pending transactions are complete, we expect to have generated more than $8 billion in after tax proceeds from all our divestitures. These divestitures have allowed us to begin focusing entirely on our North American Onshore oil and natural gas portfolio. We grew North American Onshore production 1% in 2010 and replaced approximately 175% of our production with the drill bit at very attractive costs. The operational success we had with the drill bit increased our reserves to 2,873 MMBoe, the highest level in our history. While our total North American Onshore production grew 1% in 2010, our oil and NGL production increased 6% over 2009. Liquids prices began to stabilize in 2009 and continued to strengthen throughout 2010. Although our realized price for gas increased 17% in 2010, gas prices continue to be weak. Considering the current and expected trends in commodity pricing, we have leveraged the value of our balanced portfolio and shifted capital spending toward the more profitable liquids rich development opportunities currently available to us. The performance of these assets and higher price realizations are reflected in the 2010 earnings increase. Key measures of our performance for 2010, as well as certain operational developments, are summarized below: North America Onshore oil and NGL production grew 6% over 2009, to 71 million Boe. North American Onshore gas production decreased 1% compared with 2009, to 152 million Boe. The combined realized price for oil, gas and NGLs per Boe increased 22% to $31.91. Oil, gas and NGL derivatives generated net gains of $811 million in 2010, including cash receipts of $888 million. Per unit lease operating costs increased 4% to $7.42 per Boe. Operating cash flow increased to $5.5 billion, representing a 16% increase over 2009. Capitalized costs incurred in our oil and gas activities were $6.5 billion in 2010. This includes $1.2 billion for unproved acreage acquisitions. Reserves increased to 2,873 MMBoe, an all time high. From an operational perspective, we completed another successful year with the drill bit. We drilled 1,584 gross wells on our North America Onshore properties with a 99% success rate and grew our related proved reserves 9%. During 2010, we more than doubled our industry leading leasehold position in the liquids rich Cana Woodford shale play in western Oklahoma to more than 240,000 net acres. This allowed us to grow production more than 210% from the end of 2009 to the end of 2010. As a result of the success of our drilling and development efforts in the Cana Woodford shale, we also constructed a gas processing plant in 2010. In the Barnett Shale, we exited 2010 with production of 1.2 Bcfe per day, which includes 43 MBbls per day of liquids production. This represents a 16% increase in total production compared to the 2009 exit rate. In the Permian Basin, we continued to assemble additional liquids rich acreage. By the end of 2010, we had approximately one million net acres on liquids rich development opportunities which led to an increase in production of 16% from the end of 2009 to the end of 2010. Our net production from our Jackfish oil sands project in Canada averaged 25 MBbls per day. Jackfish continues to be one of Canadas most successful steam assisted gravity drainage projects. Construction of our second Jackfish project is now complete. We expect to have first oil production by the end of 2011. Additionally, we applied for regulatory approval of a third phase of Jackfish in 2010. During 2010, we used a portion of our offshore divestiture proceeds to invest $1.2 billion in unproved leasehold acquisition focused on oil and liquids rich gas plays. Our most significant single investment was our $500 million acquisition of a 50% interest in the Pike oil sands. The Pike acreage lies immediately adjacent to 36 Table of Contents the Jackfish project. We began appraisal drilling at Pike near the end of 2010 and are acquiring seismic data. The drilling results and seismic will help us determine the optimal configuration for the initial phase of development. We expect to begin the regulatory application process for the first Pike phase around the end of 2011. Our performance and offshore divestiture success throughout 2010 enabled us to end the year with a robust level of liquidity. At the end of 2010, we had $3.4 billion of cash and short term investments and $2.6 billion of available credit. Business and Industry Outlook Even though we possess a great deal of financial strength and flexibility, we are fully committed to exercising capital discipline, maximizing profits, maintaining balance sheet strength and optimizing growth per debt adjusted share. Our portfolio of assets provides a great deal of investment flexibility. At the end of 2010, our proved reserves were comprised of approximately 60% gas and 40% liquids. While gas prices remain challenged in the market, our near term focus is on the oil and liquids rich opportunities that exist within our balanced portfolio of properties. As a result, the vast majority of our 2011 drilling activity will be centered on our oil and liquids rich gas properties. Should the outlook for commodity prices change, we have the flexibility to redirect our capital to ensure we continually focus on the highest return assets in our portfolio. Our ability to leverage the depth and breadth of our existing portfolio of properties will be key to the successful execution of our growth and value creation objectives. With 2.9 billion Boe of proved reserves at the end of 2010, our North American onshore assets will provide many years of visible, economic growth and a good balance between liquids and natural gas. In 2011, we are targeting a 6 8% production increase. However, we expect this growth will be driven by oil and NGLs growth of at least 16%. Additionally, we will continue to use a portion of our offshore divestiture proceeds to repurchase common stock under our $3.5 billion share repurchase program. Therefore, our 2011 production growth will be even higher on a per debt adjusted share basis. Results of Operations As previously stated, we are in the process of divesting our offshore assets. As a result, all amounts in this document related to our International operations are presented as discontinued. Therefore, the production, revenue and expense amounts presented in this Results of Operations section exclude amounts related to our International assets unless otherwise noted. Even though we have divested our U.S. Offshore operations, these properties do not qualify as discontinued operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and operating data provided in this document that pertain to our continuing operations include amounts related to our U.S. Offshore operations. To facilitate comparisons of our ongoing operations subsequent to the planned divestitures, we have presented amounts related to our U.S. Offshore assets separate from those of our North American Onshore assets where appropriate. 37 Table of Contents Revenues Our oil, gas and NGL production volumes are shown in the following table. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009(2) 2009 2008(2) 2008 Oil (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 14 +17 % 12 +3 % 11 Canada 25 1 % 25 +17 % 22 North America Onshore 39 +5 % 37 +12 % 33 U.S. Offshore 2 62 % 5 15 % 6 Total 41 3 % 42 +8 % 39 Gas (Bcf) U.S. Onshore 699 +0 % 698 +5 % 669 Canada 214 4 % 223 +5 % 212 North America Onshore 913 1 % 921 +5 % 881 U.S. Offshore 17 63 % 45 22 % 57 Total 930 4 % 966 +3 % 938 NGLs (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 28 +10 % 25 +9 % 24 Canada 4 6 % 4 5 % 4 North America Onshore 32 +8 % 29 +7 % 28 U.S. Offshore 55 % 1 +27 % Total 32 +6 % 30 +7 % 28 Total (MMBoe)(1) U.S. Onshore 158 +3 % 154 +5 % 146 Canada 65 3 % 66 +9 % 61 North America Onshore 223 +1 % 220 +6 % 207 U.S. Offshore 5 62 % 13 18 % 16 Total 228 2 % 233 +4 % 223 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in the table. 38 Table of Contents The following table presents the prices we realized on our production volumes. These prices exclude any effects due to our oil, gas and NGL derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009 2009 2008 2008 Oil (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 75.53 +34 % $ 56.17 41 % $ 95.63 Canada $ 58.60 +24 % $ 47.35 33 % $ 71.04 North America Onshore $ 64.51 +29 % $ 50.11 37 % $ 79.45 U.S. Offshore $ 77.81 +28 % $ 60.75 42 % $ 104.90 Total $ 65.14 +27 % $ 51.39 38 % $ 83.35 Gas (per Mcf) U.S. Onshore $ 3.73 +19 % $ 3.14 58 % $ 7.43 Canada $ 4.11 +12 % $ 3.66 55 % $ 8.17 North America Onshore $ 3.82 +17 % $ 3.27 57 % $ 7.61 U.S. Offshore $ 5.12 +22 % $ 4.20 56 % $ 9.53 Total $ 3.84 +16 % $ 3.31 57 % $ 7.73 NGLs (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 30.78 +32 % $ 23.40 43 % $ 40.97 Canada $ 46.60 +41 % $ 33.09 46 % $ 61.45 North America Onshore $ 32.55 +32 % $ 24.65 44 % $ 43.94 U.S. Offshore $ 38.22 +39 % $ 27.42 46 % $ 51.11 Total $ 32.61 +32 % $ 24.71 44 % $ 44.08 Combined (per Boe)(1) U.S. Onshore $ 28.42 +27 % $ 22.41 53 % $ 47.91 Canada $ 39.11 +21 % $ 32.29 44 % $ 57.65 North America Onshore $ 31.52 +24 % $ 25.38 50 % $ 50.78 U.S. Offshore $ 49.06 +26 % $ 38.83 48 % $ 74.55 Total $ 31.91 +22 % $ 26.15 50 % $ 52.49 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. The volume and price changes in the tables above caused the following changes to our oil, gas and NGL sales between 2008 and 2010. Oil Gas NGLs Total (In millions) 2008 sales $ 3,233 $ 7,244 $ 1,243 $ 11,720 Changes due to volumes 258 222 89 569 Changes due to prices (1,338 ) (4,269 ) (585 ) (6,192 ) 2009 sales 2,153 3,197 747 6,097 Changes due to volumes (67 ) (122 ) 46 (143 ) Changes due to prices 557 497 254 1,308 2010 sales $ 2,643 $ 3,572 $ 1,047 $ 7,262 39 Table of Contents Oil Sales 2010 vs. 2009 Oil sales increased $557 million as a result of a 27% increase in our realized price. The largest contributor to the increase in our realized price was the increase in the average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price over the same time period. Oil sales decreased $67 million due to a three percent decrease in production. The decrease was comprised of the net effects of a 62% decrease in our U.S. Offshore production and a five percent increase in our North America Onshore production. The decrease in our U.S. Offshore production was primarily due to the divestiture of such properties in the second quarter of 2010. The increased North America Onshore production resulted primarily from continued development of our Permian Basin properties in Texas and our Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in Canada. 2009 vs. 2008 Oil sales decreased $1.3 billion as a result of a 38% decrease in our realized price without hedges. The largest contributor to the decrease in our realized price was the decrease in the average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price over the same time period. Oil sales increased $258 million due to a three million barrel, or 8%, increase in production. The increased production resulted primarily from the continued development of Jackfish in Canada. Gas Sales 2010 vs. 2009 Gas sales increased $497 million as a result of a 16% increase in our realized price without hedges. This increase was largely due to increases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A four percent decrease in production during 2010 caused gas sales to decrease by $122 million. The decrease was primarily due to the divestiture of our U.S. Offshore properties in the second quarter of 2010, as well as higher Canadian government royalties. Also, our other North America Onshore properties decreased one percent due to reduced drilling during most of 2009 in response to lower gas prices. As a result of the reduced drilling activities during 2009, natural declines of existing wells outpaced production gains from new drilling in 2010. 2009 vs. 2008 Gas sales decreased $4.3 billion as a result of a 57% decrease in our realized price without hedges. This decrease was largely due to decreases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A three percent increase in production during 2009 caused gas sales to increase by $222 million. Our North America Onshore properties contributed 40 Bcf of higher volumes. This increase included 25 Bcf of higher production in Canada due to a decline in Canadian government royalties, resulting largely from lower gas prices. The remainder of the North America Onshore growth resulted from new drilling and development that exceeded natural production declines, primarily in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas. These increases were partially offset by 12 Bcf of lower production from our U.S. Offshore properties, largely resulting from natural production declines. NGL Sales 2010 vs. 2009 NGL sales increased $254 million during 2010 as a result of a 32% increase in our realized price. The increase was largely due to an increase in the Mont Belvieu, Texas index price over the same time period. NGL sales increased $46 million in 2010 due to a six percent increase in production. The increase in production was primarily due to increased drilling in North America Onshore areas that have liquids rich gas. 2009 vs. 2008 NGL sales decreased $585 million as a result of a 44% decrease in our realized price. This decrease was largely due to a decrease in the Mont Belvieu, Texas index price over the same time period. NGL sales increased $89 million in 2009 due to a seven percent increase in production. The increase in production is primarily due to drilling and development in the Barnett Shale. 40 Table of Contents Oil, Gas and NGL Derivatives The following tables provide financial information associated with our oil, gas and NGL hedges. The first table presents the cash settlements and unrealized gains and losses recognized as components of our revenues. The subsequent tables present our oil, gas and NGL prices with, and without, the effects of the cash settlements. The prices do not include the effects of unrealized gains and losses. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Cash settlement receipts (payments): Gas derivatives $ 888 $ 505 $ (424 ) Oil derivatives 27 Total cash settlements 888 505 (397 ) Unrealized gains (losses) on fair value changes: Gas derivatives 12 (83 ) 243 Oil derivatives (91 ) (38 ) NGL derivatives 2 Total unrealized gains (losses) on fair value changes (77 ) (121 ) 243 Oil, gas and NGL derivatives $ 811 $ 384 $ (154 ) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 65.14 $ 3.84 $ 32.61 $ 31.91 Cash settlements of hedges 0.96 3.90 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 65.14 $ 4.80 $ 32.61 $ 35.81 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 51.39 $ 3.31 $ 24.71 $ 26.15 Cash settlements of hedges 0.52 2.16 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 51.39 $ 3.83 $ 24.71 $ 28.31 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 83.35 $ 7.73 $ 44.08 $ 52.49 Cash settlements of hedges 0.70 (0.46 ) (1.78 ) Realized price, including cash settlements $ 84.05 $ 7.27 $ 44.08 $ 50.71 Our oil, gas, and NGL derivatives include price swaps, costless collars and basis swaps. For the price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counterparty. The price collars set a floor and ceiling price. If the applicable monthly price indices are outside of the ranges set by the floor and ceiling prices in the various collars, we cash settle the difference with the counterparty. For the basis swaps, we receive a fixed differential between two index prices and pay a variable differential on the same two index prices to the contract counterparty. Cash settlements presented in the tables above represent net realized gains or losses related to these various instruments. 41 Table of Contents Additionally, to facilitate a portion of our price swaps, we have sold gas call options for 2012 and oil call options for 2011 and 2012. The call options give the counterparty the right to place us into a price swap at a predetermined fixed price. The terms of these call options are presented in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk of this report. During 2010 and 2009, we received $888 million, or $0.96 per Mcf, and $505 million, or $0.52 per Mcf, respectively, from counterparties to settle our gas derivatives. During 2008, we paid $424 million, or $0.46 per Mcf to counterparties to settle our gas derivatives and received $27 million, or $0.70 per Bbl from counterparties to settle our oil derivatives. We had no settlements on NGL derivatives in any of these periods. In addition to recognizing these cash settlement effects, we also recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our oil, gas and NGL derivative instruments in each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of these derivatives primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Based on the amount of volumes subject to our gas derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased our 2010 unrealized gains by approximately $154 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil derivative financial instruments would have increased our 2010 unrealized losses by approximately $142 million. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. Finally, the amount of production subject to oil, gas and NGL derivatives is not a variable in our cash flow calculations, but it does impact the total derivative values. Counterparty credit risk is also a component of commodity derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with thirteen separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2010, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. Including the cash settlements discussed above, our oil, gas and NGL derivatives generated net gains of $811 million and $384 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, and a net loss of $154 million during 2008. In addition to the impact of cash settlements, these net gains and losses were impacted by new positions and settlements that occurred during each period, as well as the relationships between contract prices and the associated forward curves. A summary of our outstanding oil, gas and NGL derivative positions as of December 31, 2010 is included in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this report. 42 Table of Contents Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Operating Costs and Expenses The details of the changes in marketing and midstream revenues, operating costs and expenses and the resulting operating profit are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 ($ in millions) Marketing and midstream: Revenues $ 1,867 +22 % $ 1,534 33 % $ 2,292 Operating costs and expenses 1,357 +33 % 1,022 37 % 1,611 Operating profit $ 510 0 % $ 512 25 % $ 681 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 Marketing and midstream revenues increased $333 million and operating costs and expenses increased $335 million, causing operating profit to decrease $2 million. Both revenues and expenses increased primarily due to higher natural gas and NGL prices, partially offset by the effects of lower gas marketing profits. 2009 vs. 2008 Marketing and midstream revenues decreased $758 million and operating costs and expenses decreased $589 million, causing operating profit to decrease $169 million. Both revenues and expenses decreased primarily due to lower natural gas and NGL prices, partially offset by higher NGL production and gas pipeline throughput. Lease Operating Expenses (LOE) The details of the changes in LOE are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 Lease operating expenses ($ in millions): U.S. Onshore $ 832 1 % $ 838 6 % $ 893 Canada 797 +18 % 673 13 % 776 North American Onshore 1,629 +8 % 1,511 10 % 1,669 U.S. Offshore 60 62 % 159 13 % 182 Total $ 1,689 +1 % $ 1,670 10 % $ 1,851 Lease operating expenses per Boe: U.S. Onshore $ 5.26 4 % $ 5.46 11 % $ 6.11 Canada $ 12.37 +22 % $ 10.15 20 % $ 12.74 North American Onshore $ 7.32 +7 % $ 6.87 15 % $ 8.06 U.S. Offshore $ 12.00 +0 % $ 11.98 +6 % $ 11.29 Total $ 7.42 +4 % $ 7.16 14 % $ 8.29 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 LOE increased $19 million in 2010, which included a $118 million increase related to our North America Onshore operations and a $99 million decrease related to our U.S. Offshore operations. North America Onshore LOE increased $78 million due to changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and 43 Table of Contents Canadian dollars. The remainder of the increase in North America Onshore LOE is primarily due to increased costs related to our Jackfish operation in Canada. U.S. Offshore LOE decreased primarily due to property divestitures in the second quarter of 2010. The increase due to exchange rates was also the main contributor to the changes in North America Onshore and total LOE per Boe. 2009 vs. 2008 LOE decreased $181 million in 2009. LOE dropped $182 million due to declining costs for fuel, materials, equipment and personnel, as well as declines in maintenance and well workover projects. Such declines largely resulted from decreasing demand for field services due to lower oil and gas prices. Changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar reduced LOE $49 million. Additionally, LOE decreased $31 million as a result of hurricane damages in 2008 to certain of our U.S. Offshore facilities and transportation systems. These factors, excluding the hurricane damage, were also the main contributors to the decrease in LOE per Boe on our North America Onshore properties. Production growth at our large scale Jackfish project also contributed to a decrease in LOE per Boe. As Jackfish production approached the facilitys capacity during 2009, its per unit costs declined, contributing to lower overall LOE per Boe. The remainder of our four percent company wide production growth added $81 million to LOE during 2009. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of production taxes and ad valorem taxes assessed by various government agencies on our U.S. Onshore properties. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. The following table details the changes in our taxes other than income taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 ($ in millions) Production $ 210 +59 % $ 132 57 % $ 306 Ad valorem 165 6 % 175 +8 % 162 Other 5 30 % 7 4 % 8 Total $ 380 +21 % $ 314 34 % $ 476 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 Production taxes increased $78 million in 2010. This increase was largely due to higher U.S. Onshore revenues, as well as a decrease in production tax credits associated with certain properties in the state of Texas. Ad valorem taxes decreased $10 million primarily due to lower assessed values of our U.S. Onshore oil and gas property and equipment. 2009 vs. 2008 Production taxes decreased $174 million in 2009. This decrease was largely due to lower U.S. Onshore revenues, as well as an increase in production tax credits associated with certain properties in the state of Texas. Ad valorem taxes increased $13 million primarily due to higher assessed oil and gas property and equipment values. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization of Oil and Gas Properties (DDA) DDA of oil and gas properties is calculated by multiplying the percentage of total proved reserve volumes produced during the year, by the depletable base. The depletable base represents our capitalized investment, net of accumulated DDA and reductions of carrying value, plus future development costs related to proved undeveloped reserves. Generally, when reserve volumes are revised up or down, then the DDA rate per unit of production will change inversely. However, when the depletable base changes, then the DDA rate moves in the same direction. The per unit DDA rate is not affected by production volumes. Absolute or total DDA, as opposed to the rate per unit of production, generally moves in the same direction as production volumes. Oil and gas property DDA is calculated separately on a country by country basis. 44 Table of Contents The changes in our production volumes, DDA rate per unit and DDA of oil and gas properties are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 Total production volumes (MMBoe) 228 2 % 233 +4 % 223 DDA rate ($ per Boe) $ 7.36 6 % $ 7.86 40 % $ 13.20 DDA expense ($ in millions) $ 1,675 9 % $ 1,832 38 % $ 2,948 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. The following table details the changes in DDA of oil and gas properties between 2008 and 2010 due to the changes in production volumes and DDA rate presented in the table above (in millions). 2008 DDA $ 2,948 Change due to volumes 130 Change due to rate (1,246 ) 2009 DDA 1,832 Change due to volumes (43 ) Change due to rate (114 ) 2010 DDA $ 1,675 2010 vs. 2009 Oil and gas property related DDA decreased $114 million during 2010 due to a six percent decrease in the DDA rate. The largest contributors to the rate decrease were our 2010 U.S. Offshore property divestitures and a reduction of the carrying value of our United States oil and gas properties recognized in the first quarter of 2009. This reduction totaled $6.4 billion and resulted from a full cost ceiling limitation. These decreases were partially offset by the effects of costs incurred and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2010 drilling and development activities, as well as changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars. 2009 vs. 2008 Oil and gas property related DDA decreased $1.2 billion due to a 40% decrease in the DDA rate. The largest contributors to the rate decrease were reductions of the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties recognized in the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008. These reductions totaled $16.3 billion and resulted from full cost ceiling limitations in the United States and Canada. In addition, the effects of changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars also contributed to the rate decrease. These factors were partially offset by the effects of costs incurred and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2009 drilling activities. Partially offsetting the impact from the lower 2009 DDA rate was our four percent production increase, which caused oil and gas property related DDA expense to increase $130 million. The impact of adopting the SECs new Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting rules at the end of 2009 had virtually no impact on our DDA rate. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our net GA consists of three primary components. The largest of these components is the gross amount of expenses incurred for personnel costs, office expenses, professional fees and other GA items. The gross amount of these expenses is partially offset by two components. One is the amount of GA capitalized pursuant to the full cost method of accounting related to exploration and development activities. The other is the amount of GA reimbursed by working interest owners of properties for which we serve as the operator. These reimbursements are received during both the drilling and operational stages of a propertys life. The gross amount of GA incurred, less the amounts capitalized and reimbursed, is recorded as net GA in the 45 Table of Contents consolidated statements of operations. Net GA includes expenses related to oil, gas and NGL exploration and production activities, marketing and midstream activities, as well as corporate overhead activities. See the following table for a summary of GA expenses by component. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 ($ in millions) Gross GA $ 987 11 % $ 1,107 +0 % $ 1,103 Capitalized GA (311 ) 6 % (332 ) 2 % (337 ) Reimbursed GA (113 ) 11 % (127 ) +5 % (121 ) Net GA $ 563 13 % $ 648 +0 % $ 645 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 Gross GA decreased $120 million largely due to a decline in employee severance costs. Such costs decreased primarily due to Gulf of Mexico employees that were impacted by the integration of our Gulf of Mexico and International operations into one offshore unit in the second quarter of 2009 and other employee departures during 2009. Gross GA, as well as capitalized GA, also decreased subsequent to our mid year 2010 Gulf of Mexico divestitures as a result of the decline in our workforce. The Gulf of Mexico divestitures were also the main contributor to the decrease in GA reimbursements. Gross and capitalized GA also declined due to reduced spending initiatives for certain discretionary cost categories. These decreases were partially offset by an increase due to the effects of changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars. 2009 vs. 2008 Gross GA increased $4 million. This increase was due to approximately $60 million of higher costs for employee compensation and benefits, mostly offset by the effects of our 2009 reduced spending initiatives for certain discretionary cost categories. Employee cost increases in 2009 included an additional $57 million of severance costs. This increase was primarily due to Gulf of Mexico and other employee departures during 2009. Additionally, postretirement benefit costs increased approximately $50 million. The increases in employee costs were partially offset by a $27 million decrease due to accelerated share based compensation expense recognized in 2008 resulting from a modification of certain executives compensation arrangements. The modified compensation arrangements provide that executives who meet certain years of service and age criteria can retire and continue vesting in outstanding share based grants. Although this modification does not accelerate the vesting of the executives grants, it does accelerate the expense recognition as executives approach the years of service and age criteria. Restructuring Costs The following schedule includes the components of restructuring costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Operations Operations Total Operations Operations Total (In millions) Cash severance $ (17 ) $ 1 $ (16 ) $ 66 $ 24 $ 90 Share based awards (10 ) (5 ) (15 ) 39 24 63 Lease obligations 70 70 Asset impairments 11 11 Other 3 3 Restructuring costs $ 57 $ (4 ) $ 53 $ 105 $ 48 $ 153 46 Table of Contents Employee Severance In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recognized $153 million of estimated employee severance costs associated with the planned divestiture of our offshore assets that was announced in November 2009. This amount was based on estimates of the number of employees that would ultimately be impacted by the divestitures and included amounts related to cash severance costs and accelerated vesting of share based grants. Of the $153 million total, $105 million related to our U.S. Offshore operations and the remainder related to our International discontinued operations. During 2010, we divested all of our U.S. Offshore assets and a significant part of our International assets. As a result of these divestitures and associated employee terminations, we decreased our estimate of employee severance costs in 2010 by $31 million. More offshore employees than previously estimated received comparable positions with either the purchaser of the properties or in our U.S. Onshore operations, and this caused the $31 million decrease to our severance estimate. This decrease includes $27 million related to our U.S. Offshore operations and $4 million related to our International discontinued operations. Lease Obligations As a result of the divestitures discussed above, we ceased using certain office space that was subject to non cancellable operating lease arrangements. Consequently, in 2010, we recognized $70 million of restructuring costs that represent the present value of our future obligations under the leases, net of anticipated sublease income. The estimate of lease obligations was based upon certain key estimates that could change over the term of the leases. These estimates include the estimated sublease income that we may receive over the term of the leases, as well as the amount of variable operating costs that we will be required to pay under the leases. Asset Impairments In 2010, we recognized $11 million of asset impairment charges for leasehold improvements and furniture associated with the office space we ceased using. Interest Expense The following schedule includes the components of interest expense. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Interest based on debt outstanding $ 408 $ 437 $ 426 Capitalized interest (76 ) (94 ) (111 ) Early retirement of debt 19 Other 12 6 14 Total interest expense $ 363 $ 349 $ 329 2010 vs. 2009 Interest based on debt outstanding decreased in 2010 primarily due to the retirement of $177 million of 10.125% notes upon their maturity in the fourth quarter of 2009 and the early redemption of our 7.25% senior notes as discussed below. Capitalized interest decreased during 2010 primarily due to the divestitures of our U.S. Offshore properties during the first half of 2010, which was partially offset by higher capitalized interest associated with our Canadian oil sands development projects. In the second quarter of 2010, we redeemed $350 million of 7.25% senior notes prior to their scheduled maturity of October 1, 2011. The notes were redeemed for $384 million, which represented 100 percent of the principal amount, a make whole premium of $28 million and $6 million of accrued and unpaid interest. On the date of redemption, these notes also had an unamortized premium of $9 million. The $19 million presented 47 Table of Contents in the table above represents the net of the $28 million make whole premium and $9 million amortization of the remaining premium. 2009 vs. 2008 Interest based on debt outstanding increased $11 million from 2008 to 2009. This increase was primarily due to interest paid on the $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes that we issued in January 2009. This was partially offset by lower interest resulting from the retirement of our exchangeable debentures during the third quarter of 2008 and lower interest rates on our floating rate commercial paper borrowings. Capitalized interest decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to the sales of our West African exploration and development properties in 2008 and the completion of the Access pipeline transportation system in Canada in the second quarter of 2008. Interest Rate and Other Financial Instruments The details of the changes in our interest rate and other financial instruments are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) (Gains) losses from: Interest rate swaps cash settlements $ (44 ) $ (40 ) $ (1 ) Interest rate swaps unrealized fair value changes 30 (66 ) (104 ) Chevron common stock 363 Option embedded in exchangeable debentures (109 ) Total $ (14 ) $ (106 ) $ 149 Interest Rate Swaps During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we received cash settlements totaling $44 million, $40 million and $1 million, respectively, from counterparties to settle our interest rate swaps. In addition to recognizing cash settlements, we recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. In 2010, we recorded an unrealized loss of $30 million as a result of changes in interest rates. In 2009 and 2008, we recorded unrealized gains of $66 million and $104 million, respectively, as a result of changes in interest rates. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by a third party. Based on the notional amount subject to the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased our 2010 unrealized loss for our interest rate swaps by approximately $68 million. Similar to our commodity derivative contracts, counterparty credit risk is also a component of interest rate derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with seven separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. The credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade as of December 31, 2010. 48 Table of Contents Chevron Common Stock and Related Embedded Option Until October 31, 2008, we owned 14.2 million shares of Chevron common stock and recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of this investment. On October 31, 2008, we exchanged these shares of Chevron common stock for Chevrons interest in the Drunkards Wash properties located in east central Utah and $280 million in cash. In accordance with the terms of the exchange, the fair value of our investment in the Chevron shares was estimated to be $67.71 per share on the exchange date. Prior to the exchange of these shares, we calculated the fair value of our investment in Chevron common stock using Chevrons published market price. We also recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of the conversion option embedded in the debentures exchangeable into shares of Chevron common stock. The embedded option was not actively traded in an established market. Therefore, we estimated its fair value using quotes obtained from a broker for trades occurring near the valuation date. The loss during 2008 on our investment in Chevron common stock was directly attributable to a $25.62 per share decrease in the estimated fair value while we owned Chevrons common stock during the year. The gain on the embedded option during 2008 was directly attributable to the change in fair value of the Chevron common stock from January 1, 2008 to the maturity date of August 15, 2008. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties During 2009 and 2008, we reduced the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties due to full cost ceiling limitations. A summary of these reductions and additional discussion is provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 After After Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) United States $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 6,538 $ 4,168 Canada 3,353 2,488 Total $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 9,891 $ 6,656 The 2009 reduction was recognized in the first quarter and the 2008 reductions were recognized in the fourth quarter. The reductions resulted from significant decreases in each countrys full cost ceiling compared to the immediately preceding quarter. The lower United States ceiling value in the first quarter of 2009 largely resulted from the effects of declining natural gas prices subsequent to December 31, 2008. The lower ceiling values in the fourth quarter of 2008 largely resulted from the effects of sharp declines in oil, gas and NGL prices compared to September 30, 2008. To demonstrate these declines, the March 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008 weighted average wellhead prices are presented in the following table. March 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 September 30, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Country (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) United States $ 47.30 $ 2.67 $ 17.04 $ 42.21 $ 4.68 $ 16.16 $ 97.62 $ 5.28 $ 38.00 Canada N/A N/A N/A $ 23.23 $ 5.31 $ 20.89 $ 59.72 $ 6.00 $ 62.78 N/A Not applicable. The March 31, 2009 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $49.66 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $3.63 per MMBtu for gas. The December 31, 2008 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $44.60 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $5.71 per MMBtu for gas. The September 30, 2008, wellhead prices 49 Table of Contents in the table compare to the NYMEX cash price of $100.64 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $7.12 per MMBtu for gas. Other, net The following table includes the components of other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Interest and dividend income $ (13 ) $ (8 ) $ (54 ) Deep water royalties (84 ) Hurricane insurance proceeds (162 ) Other (32 ) 24 (1 ) Total $ (45 ) $ (68 ) $ (217 ) Interest and dividend income decreased from 2008 to 2009 due to a decrease in dividends received on our previously owned investment in Chevron common stock and a decrease in interest received on cash equivalents due to lower rates and balances. In 1995, the United States Congress passed the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act. The intent of this legislation was to encourage deep water exploration in the Gulf of Mexico by providing relief from the obligation to pay royalties on certain federal leases. Deep water leases issued in certain years by the Minerals Management Service (the MMS) have contained price thresholds, such that if the market prices for oil or gas exceeded the thresholds for a given year, royalty relief would not be granted for that year. In October 2007, a federal district court ruled in favor of a plaintiff who had challenged the legality of including price thresholds in deep water leases. Additionally, in January 2009 a federal appellate court upheld this district court ruling. This judgment was later appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which, in October 2009, declined to review the appellate courts ruling. The Supreme Courts decision ended the MMSs judicial course to enforce the price thresholds. Prior to September 30, 2009, we had $84 million accrued for potential royalties on various deep water leases. Based upon the Supreme Courts decision, we reduced to zero the $84 million loss contingency accrual in the third quarter of 2009. In 2008, we recognized $162 million of excess insurance recoveries for damages suffered in 2005 related to hurricanes that struck the Gulf of Mexico. The excess recoveries resulted from business interruption claims on policies that were in effect when the 2005 hurricanes occurred. Income Taxes The following table presents our total income tax expense (benefit) and a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate to the U.S. statutory income tax rate. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Total income tax expense (benefit) (In millions) $ 1,235 $ (1,773 ) $ (1,121 ) U.S. statutory income tax rate 35 % (35 )% (35 )% Repatriations and assumed repatriations 4 % 1 % 7 % State income taxes 1 % (2 )% (1 )% Taxation on Canadian operations (1 )% (1 )% 5 % Other (4 )% (2 )% (3 )% Effective income tax expense (benefit) rate 35 % (39 )% (27 )% 50 Table of Contents During 2010 and 2009, pursuant to the completed and planned divestitures of our International assets located outside North America, a portion of our foreign earnings were no longer deemed to be permanently reinvested. Accordingly, we recognized deferred income tax expense of $144 million and $55 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to assumed repatriations of earnings from certain of our foreign subsidiaries. During 2008, we recognized $312 million of additional income tax expense that resulted from two related factors associated with our foreign operations. First, during 2008, we repatriated $2.6 billion from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Second, we made certain tax policy election changes in the second quarter of 2008 to minimize the taxes we otherwise would pay for the cash repatriations, as well as the taxable gains associated with the sales of assets in West Africa. As a result of the repatriation and tax policy election changes, we recognized $295 million of additional current tax expense and $17 million of additional deferred tax expense. Excluding the $312 million of additional tax expense, our effective income tax benefit rate would have been 34% for 2008. Earnings From Discontinued Operations For all years presented in the following tables, our discontinued operations include amounts related to our assets in Azerbaijan, Brazil, China and other minor International properties. Additionally, during 2008, our discontinued operations included amounts related to our assets in West Africa, including Equatorial Guinea, Cote dIvoire, Gabon and other countries in the region until they were sold. Following are the components of earnings from discontinued operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Total production (MMBoe) 10 16 18 Combined price without hedges (per Boe) $ 72.68 $ 59.25 $ 92.72 (In millions) Operating revenues $ 693 $ 945 $ 1,702 Expenses and other, net: Operating expenses 212 496 776 Restructuring costs (4 ) 48 Reduction of carrying value of oil and gas properties 109 494 Gain on sale of oil and gas properties (1,818 ) (17 ) (819 ) Other, net (82 ) (13 ) (7 ) Total expenses and other, net (1,692 ) 623 444 Earnings before income taxes 2,385 322 1,258 Income tax expense 168 48 367 Earnings from discontinued operations $ 2,217 $ 274 $ 891 51 Table of Contents The following table presents gains on our offshore and African divestiture transactions by year. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 After After After Gross Taxes Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) Azerbaijan $ 1,543 $ 1,524 $ $ $ $ China Panyu 308 235 Equatorial Guinea 619 544 Gabon 117 122 Cote dIvoire 17 17 83 95 Other (33 ) (27 ) 8 Total $ 1,818 $ 1,732 $ 17 $ 17 $ 819 $ 769 2010 vs. 2009 Earnings increased $1.9 billion in 2010 primarily as a result of the $1.5 billion gain ($1.5 billion after taxes) from the divestiture of our Azerbaijan operations and the $308 million gain ($235 million after taxes) from the divestiture of our Panyu operations in China. Also, earnings increased $109 million due to the 2009 reductions of carrying value of our oil and gas properties, which primarily related to Brazil. The Brazilian reduction resulted largely from an exploratory well drilled at the BM BAR 3 block in the offshore Barreirinhas Basin. After drilling this well in the first quarter of 2009, we concluded that the well did not have adequate reserves for commercial viability. As a result, the seismic, leasehold and drilling costs associated with this well contributed to the reduction recognized in the first quarter of 2009. 2009 vs. 2008 Earnings from discontinued operations decreased $617 million in 2009. Our discontinued earnings were impacted by several factors. First, operating revenues declined largely due to a 36% decrease in the price realized on our production, which was driven by a decline in crude oil index prices. Second, both operating revenues and expenses declined due to divestitures that closed in 2008. Earnings also decreased $752 million in 2009 due to larger gains recognized on West African asset divestitures in 2008. Partially offsetting these decreased earnings in 2009 was the larger reduction of carrying value recognized in 2008 compared to 2009. The reductions largely consisted of full cost ceiling limitations related to our assets in Brazil that were caused by a decline in oil prices. Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity The following discussion of capital resources, uses and liquidity should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 52 Table of Contents Sources and Uses of Cash The following table presents the sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents. The table presents capital expenditures on a cash basis. Therefore, these amounts differ from capital expenditure amounts that include accruals and are referred to elsewhere in this document. Additional discussion of these items follows the table. 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Sources of cash and cash equivalents: Operating cash flow continuing operations $ 5,022 $ 4,232 $ 8,448 Divestitures of property and equipment 4,310 34 117 Cash distributed from discontinued operations 2,864 1,898 Commercial paper borrowings 1,431 1 Debt issuance, net of commercial paper repayments 182 Redemptions of long term investments 21 7 250 Stock option exercises 111 42 116 Proceeds from exchange of Chevron stock 280 Other 16 8 59 Total sources of cash and cash equivalents 12,344 5,936 11,169 Uses of cash and cash equivalents: Capital expenditures (6,476 ) (4,879 ) (8,843 ) Commercial paper repayments (1,432 ) Debt repayments (350 ) (178 ) (1,031 ) Net credit facility repayments (1,450 ) Repurchases of common stock (1,168 ) (665 ) Redemption of preferred stock (150 ) Dividends (281 ) (284 ) (289 ) Purchases of short term investments (145 ) Other (19 ) (17 ) Total uses of cash and cash equivalents (9,871 ) (5,358 ) (12,428 ) Increase (decrease) from continuing operations 2,473 578 (1,259 ) Increase (decrease) from discontinued operations, net of distributions to continuing operations (211 ) 6 386 Effect of foreign exchange rates 17 43 (116 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 2,279 $ 627 $ (989 ) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 3,290 $ 1,011 $ 384 Short term investments at end of year $ 145 $ $ Operating Cash Flow Continuing Operations Net cash provided by operating activities (operating cash flow) continued to be a significant source of capital and liquidity in 2010. Changes in operating cash flow from our continuing operations are largely due to the same factors that affect our net earnings, with the exception of those earnings changes due to such noncash expenses as DDA, financial instrument fair value changes, property impairments and deferred income taxes. As a result, our operating cash flow increased 19% during 2010 primarily due to the increase in revenues as discussed in the Results of Operations section of this report. 53 Table of Contents During 2010, our operating cash flow funded approximately 78% of our cash payments for capital expenditures. However, our capital expenditures for 2010 included $500 million paid to form a heavy oil joint venture and acquire a 50 percent interest in the Pike oil sands in Alberta, Canada. This acquisition was completed in connection with the offshore divestitures discussed below. Excluding this $500 million acquisition, our operating cash flow funded approximately 84% of our capital expenditures during 2010. Offshore divestiture proceeds were used to fund the remainder of our cash based capital expenditures. During 2009, our operating cash flow funded approximately 87% of our cash payments for capital expenditures. Commercial paper borrowings were used to fund the remainder of our cash based capital expenditures. During 2008, our capital expenditures were primarily funded by our operating cash flow and pre existing cash balances. Other Sources of Cash Continuing and Discontinued Operations As needed, we supplement our operating cash flow and available cash by accessing available credit under our senior credit facility and commercial paper program. We may also issue long term debt to supplement our operating cash flow while maintaining adequate liquidity under our credit facilities. Additionally, we may acquire short term investments to maximize our income on available cash balances. As needed, we reduce such short term investment balances to further supplement our operating cash flow and available cash. During 2010, we divested our U.S. Offshore, Azerbaijan, China and other minor international properties, generating $6.6 billion in pre tax proceeds net of closing adjustments, or $5.6 billion after taxes. We have used proceeds from these divestitures to repay all our commercial paper borrowings, retire $350 million of other debt that was to mature in October 2011 and begin repurchasing our common shares. In addition, we began redeploying proceeds into our North America Onshore properties, including the $500 million Pike oil sands acquisition mentioned above. During 2009, we issued $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2014 and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2019. The net proceeds received of $1.187 billion, after discounts and issuance costs, were used primarily to repay Devons $1.005 billion of outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to the $1.005 billion commercial paper repayment in January 2009, we utilized additional commercial paper borrowings of $1.431 billion to fund capital expenditures in excess of our operating cash flow. During 2008, we received $2.6 billion in pre tax proceeds, or $1.9 billion after taxes and purchase price adjustments from sales of assets located in Equatorial Guinea and other West African countries. Also, in conjunction with these asset sales, we repatriated an additional $2.6 billion of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. We used these combined sources of cash in 2008 to fund debt repayments, common stock repurchases, redemptions of preferred stock and dividends on common and preferred stock. Additionally, we reduced our short term investment balances by $250 million and received $280 million from the exchange of our investment in Chevron common stock. 54 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures are presented by geographic area and type in the following table. The amounts in the table below reflect cash payments for capital expenditures, including cash paid for capital expenditures incurred in prior periods. Capital expenditures actually incurred during 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $6.9 billion, $4.7 billion and $10.0 billion, respectively. 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Onshore $ 3,689 $ 2,413 $ 5,606 Canada 1,826 1,064 1,459 North American Onshore 5,515 3,477 7,065 U.S. Offshore 376 845 1,157 Total exploration and development 5,891 4,322 8,222 Midstream 236 323 451 Other 349 234 170 Total continuing operations $ 6,476 $ 4,879 $ 8,843 Our capital expenditures consist of amounts related to our oil and gas exploration and development operations, our midstream operations and other corporate activities. The vast majority of our capital expenditures are for the acquisition, drilling and development of oil and gas properties, which totaled $5.9 billion, $4.3 billion and $8.2 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in exploration and development capital spending in 2010 was partially due to the $500 million Pike oil sands acquisition mentioned above. Additionally, with rising oil and NGL prices and proceeds from our offshore divestiture program, we are increasing drilling primarily to grow liquids production across our North America Onshore portfolio of properties. The decline in capital expenditures from 2008 to 2009 was due to decreased drilling activities in most of our operating areas in response to lower commodity prices in 2009 compared to previous years. Also, the 2008 capital expenditures include $2.6 billion related to acquisitions of properties in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Canada. Capital expenditures for our midstream operations are primarily for the construction and expansion of natural gas processing plants, natural gas gathering and pipeline systems and oil pipelines. Our midstream capital expenditures in 2010 were largely impacted by reduced U.S. Onshore dry gas drilling activities. Capital expenditures related to corporate activities increased in 2010. This increase is largely driven by the construction of our new headquarters in Oklahoma City. Net Repayments of Debt During 2010, we repaid $1.4 billion of commercial paper borrowings and redeemed $350 million of 7.25% senior notes prior to their scheduled maturity of October 1, 2011, primarily with proceeds received from our U.S. Offshore divestitures. During 2009, we repaid our $177 million 10.125% notes upon maturity in the fourth quarter. During 2008, we repaid $1.5 billion in outstanding credit facility borrowings primarily with proceeds received from the sales of assets under our African divestiture program. Also during 2008, virtually all holders of exchangeable debentures exercised their option to exchange their debentures for shares of Chevron common stock owned by us. The debentures matured on August 15, 2008. In lieu of delivering our shares of Chevron common stock, we exercised our option to pay the exchanging debenture holders cash totaling $1.0 billion. This amount included the retirement of debentures with a book value of $652 million and a $379 million payment of the related embedded derivative option. 55 Table of Contents Repurchases of Common Stock The following table summarizes our repurchases, including unsettled shares, under approved plans during 2010 and 2008 (amounts and shares in millions). 2010 2008 Repurchase Program Amount Shares Per Share Amount Shares Per Share 2010 program $ 1,201 18.3 $ 65.58 $ $ Annual program 178 2.0 $ 87.83 2007 program 487 4.5 $ 109.25 Totals $ 1,201 18.3 $ 65.58 $ 665 6.5 $ 102.56 No shares were repurchased in 2009. The 2010 program expires on December 31, 2011 and the 2008 program and annual program expired on December 31, 2009. Redemption of Preferred Stock On June 20, 2008, we redeemed all 1.5 million outstanding shares of our 6.49% Series A cumulative preferred stock. Each share of preferred stock was redeemed for cash at a redemption price of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends up to the redemption date. Dividends Devon paid common stock dividends of $281 million (or $0.64 per share) in 2010 and $284 million (or $0.64 per share) in both 2009 and 2008, respectively. Devon paid dividends of $5 million in 2008 to preferred stockholders. Devon redeemed its outstanding preferred stock in the second quarter of 2008. Liquidity Historically, our primary source of capital and liquidity has been operating cash flow. Additionally, we maintain revolving lines of credit and a commercial paper program, which can be accessed as needed to supplement operating cash flow. Other available sources of capital and liquidity include the issuance of equity and debt securities that can be issued pursuant to our automatically effective registration statement filed with the SEC. This registration statement can be used to offer short term and long term debt securities. Another major source of future liquidity will be proceeds from the sales of our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola. We estimate the combination of these sources of capital will be adequate to fund future capital expenditures, share repurchases, debt repayments and other contractual commitments as discussed later in this section. Operating Cash Flow Our operating cash flow is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is pricing of the oil, gas and NGLs produced. Due to improving oil and NGL prices, our operating cash flow increased approximately 16% to $5.5 billion in 2010 as compared to 2009. We expect operating cash flow to continue to be our primary source of liquidity. Commodity Prices Prices for oil, gas and NGLs are determined primarily by prevailing market conditions. Regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other substantially variable factors influence market conditions for these products. These factors, which are difficult to predict, create volatility in oil, gas and NGL prices and are beyond our control. We expect this volatility to continue throughout 2011. To mitigate some of the risk inherent in prices, we have utilized various price swap, fixed price physical delivery and price collar contracts to set minimum and maximum prices on our 2011 production. As of February 10, 2011, approximately 29% of our 2011 gas production is associated with financial price swaps and fixed price physicals. We also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2011 gas production. Additionally, approximately 36% of our 2011 oil production is associated with financial price 56 Table of Contents collars. We also have call options that, if exercised, would hedge an additional 16% of our 2011 oil production. Commodity prices can also affect our operating cash flow through an indirect effect on operating expenses. Significant commodity price increases can lead to an increase in drilling and development activities. As a result, the demand and cost for people, services, equipment and materials may also increase, causing a negative impact on our cash flow. However, the inverse is also true during periods of depressed commodity prices. Interest Rates Our operating cash flow can also be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. As of February 10, 2011, we had total debt of $6.2 billion with an overall weighted average borrowing rate of 6.4%. To manage our exposure to interest rate volatility, we have interest rate swap instruments with a total notional amount of $2.1 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect, based upon us paying a fixed rate and receiving a floating rate. Including the effects of these swaps, the weighted average interest rate related to our debt was 5.7% as of February 10, 2011. Credit Losses Our operating cash flow is also exposed to credit risk in a variety of ways. We are exposed to the credit risk of the customers who purchase our oil, gas and NGL production. We are also exposed to credit risk related to the collection of receivables from our joint interest partners for their proportionate share of expenditures made on projects we operate. We are also exposed to the credit risk of counterparties to our derivative financial contracts as discussed previously in this report. We utilize a variety of mechanisms to limit our exposure to the credit risks of our customers, partners and counterparties. Such mechanisms include, under certain conditions, posting of letters of credit, prepayment requirements and collateral posting requirements. Offshore Divestitures During 2010, we sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan, China and other International regions, generating $5.6 billion in after tax proceeds. Additionally, we have entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective governments to approve the divestitures. Once the pending transactions are complete, we expect to have generated more than $8 billion in after tax proceeds. Similar to 2010, we expect to continue using the divestiture proceeds to invest in North America Onshore exploration and development opportunities, reduce our debt and repurchase our common shares. Credit Availability We have a $2.65 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving line of credit (the Senior Credit Facility) that can be accessed to provide liquidity as needed. The maturity date for $2.19 billion of the Senior Credit Facility is April 7, 2013. The maturity date for the remaining $0.46 billion is April 7, 2012. All amounts outstanding will be due and payable on the respective maturity dates unless the maturity is extended. Prior to each April 7 anniversary date, we have the option to extend the maturity of the Senior Credit Facility for one year, subject to the approval of the lenders. The Senior Credit Facility includes a revolving Canadian subfacility in a maximum amount of U.S. $500 million. Amounts borrowed under the Senior Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods of up to twelve months. Such rates are generally less than the prime rate. However, we may elect to borrow at the prime rate. We also have access to short term credit under our commercial paper program. Total borrowings under the commercial paper program may not exceed $2.2 billion. Also, any borrowings under the commercial paper program reduce available capacity under the Senior Credit Facility on a dollar for dollar basis. Commercial paper debt generally has a maturity of between one and 90 days, although it can have a maturity of up to 365 days, and bears interest at rates agreed to at the time of the borrowing. The interest rate is based on a 57 Table of Contents standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. The Senior Credit Facility contains only one material financial covenant. This covenant requires us to maintain a ratio of total funded debt to total capitalization, as defined in the credit agreement, of no more than 65%. The credit agreement defines total funded debt as funds received through the issuance of debt securities such as debentures, bonds, notes payable, credit facility borrowings and short term commercial paper borrowings. In addition, total funded debt includes all obligations with respect to payments received in consideration for oil, gas and NGL production yet to be acquired or produced at the time of payment. Funded debt excludes our outstanding letters of credit and trade payables. The credit agreement defines total capitalization as the sum of funded debt and stockholders equity adjusted for noncash financial writedowns, such as full cost ceiling impairments. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with this covenant. Our debt to capitalization ratio at December 31, 2010, as calculated pursuant to the terms of the agreement, was 15.1%. Our access to funds from the Senior Credit Facility is not restricted under any material adverse effect clauses. It is not uncommon for credit agreements to include such clauses. These clauses can remove the obligation of the banks to fund the credit line if any condition or event would reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on the borrowers financial condition, operations, properties or business considered as a whole, the borrowers ability to make timely debt payments, or the enforceability of material terms of the credit agreement. While our credit facility includes covenants that require us to report a condition or event having a material adverse effect, the obligation of the banks to fund the credit facility is not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse effect. The following schedule summarizes the capacity of our Senior Credit Facility by maturity date, as well as our available capacity as of February 10, 2011 (in millions). April 7, 2012 maturity $ 463 April 7, 2013 maturity 2,187 Total Senior Credit Facility 2,650 Less: Outstanding credit facility borrowings Outstanding commercial paper borrowings 625 Outstanding letters of credit 39 Total available capacity $ 1,986 As presented in the table above, we had $625 million of commercial paper borrowings as of February 10, 2011. Although we ended 2010 with $3.4 billion of cash and short term investments, the vast majority of this amount consists of proceeds from our International offshore divestitures. For the time being, we have decided not to repatriate these proceeds to the United States or permanently invest them in Canada. This decision is based on our ongoing evaluation of our future cash needs across our operations in the United States and Canada, as well as the relatively low borrowing rates on our short term borrowings. If we do not repatriate these proceeds to the United States in the near term, we may continue to increase our commercial paper borrowings to supplement our operating cash flow in funding our common stock repurchases and capital expenditures. Debt Ratings We receive debt ratings from the major ratings agencies in the United States. In determining our debt ratings, the agencies consider a number of items including, but not limited to, debt levels, planned asset sales, near term and long term production growth opportunities and capital allocation challenges. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix, and commodity pricing levels are also considered by the rating agencies. Our current debt ratings are BBB+ with a stable outlook by both Fitch and Standard Poors, and Baa1 with a stable outlook by Moodys. 58 Table of Contents There are no rating triggers in any of our contractual obligations that would accelerate scheduled maturities should our debt rating fall below a specified level. Our cost of borrowing under our Senior Credit Facility is predicated on our corporate debt rating. Therefore, even though a ratings downgrade would not accelerate scheduled maturities, it would adversely impact the interest rate on any borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. Under the terms of the Senior Credit Facility, a one notch downgrade would increase the fully drawn borrowing costs from LIBOR plus 35 basis points to a new rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points. A ratings downgrade could also adversely impact our ability to economically access debt markets in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we were not aware of any potential ratings downgrades being contemplated by the rating agencies. Capital Expenditures Our 2011 capital expenditures are expected to range from $5.4 billion to $6.0 billion. To a certain degree, the ultimate timing of these capital expenditures is within our control. Therefore, if commodity prices fluctuate from current estimates, we could choose to defer a portion of these planned 2011 capital expenditures until later periods, or accelerate capital expenditures planned for periods beyond 2011 to achieve the desired balance between sources and uses of liquidity. Based upon current price expectations for 2011, our existing commodity hedging contracts, available cash balances and credit availability, we anticipate having adequate capital resources to fund our 2011 capital expenditures. Common Stock Repurchase Program As a result of the success we have experienced with our offshore divestiture program, we announced a share repurchase program in May 2010. The program authorizes the repurchase of up to $3.5 billion of our common shares and expires December 31, 2011. As of February 10, 2011, we had repurchased $1.6 billion, or 23.5 million of our shares at an average price of $69.60. We will continue to use proceeds from our offshore divestiture program in 2011 to fund our repurchase program. Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010, is provided in the following table. Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) North American Onshore: Purchase obligations(1) $ 7,710 $ 551 $ 1,471 $ 1,568 $ 4,120 Debt(2) 5,628 1,812 9 582 3,225 Interest expense(3) 4,645 392 544 502 3,207 Drilling and facility obligations(4) 1,163 747 410 6 Firm transportation agreements(5) 1,734 282 487 408 557 Asset retirement obligations(6) 1,497 74 102 110 1,211 Lease obligations(7) 489 58 104 77 250 Other(8) 389 59 141 156 33 Total North America Onshore 23,255 3,975 3,268 3,409 12,603 Offshore: Drilling and facility obligations(4) 595 314 281 Asset retirement obligations(6) 24 24 Lease obligations(7) 111 38 58 15 Total Offshore 730 352 339 39 Grand Total $ 23,985 $ 4,327 $ 3,607 $ 3,448 $ 12,603 59 Table of Contents (1) Purchase obligation amounts represent contractual commitments to purchase condensate at market prices for use at our heavy oil projects in Canada. We have entered into these agreements because the condensate is an integral part of the heavy oil production process and any disruption in our ability to obtain condensate could negatively affect our ability to produce and transport heavy oil at these locations. Our total obligation related to condensate purchases expires in 2021. This value of the obligation in the table above is based on the contractual volumes and our internal estimate of future condensate market prices. (2) Debt amounts represent scheduled maturities of our debt obligations at December 31, 2010, excluding $2 million of net premiums included in the carrying value of debt. (3) Interest expense relates to our fixed rate debt and represents the scheduled cash payments. We had no variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2010. (4) Drilling and facility obligations represent contractual agreements with third party service providers to procure drilling rigs and other related services for developmental and exploratory drilling and facilities construction. Our offshore commitment primarily relates to a long term contract for a deepwater drilling rig being used in Brazil. Our lease and remaining commitments for this rig will be assumed by the buyer of our assets in Brazil when the associated divestiture transaction closes. (5) Firm transportation agreements represent ship or pay arrangements whereby we have committed to ship certain volumes of oil, gas and NGLs for a fixed transportation fee. We have entered into these agreements to aid the movement of our production to market. We expect to have sufficient production to utilize these transportation services. (6) Asset retirement obligations represent estimated discounted costs for future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation costs. These obligations are recorded as liabilities on our December 31, 2010 balance sheet. (7) Lease obligations for our North America onshore operations consist primarily of non cancelable leases for office space and equipment used in our daily operations. Lease obligations for our offshore operations consist primarily of an FPSO in Brazil. The Polvo FPSO lease term expires in 2014. Our lease and remaining commitments for this FPSO will be assumed by the buyer of our assets in Brazil when the associated divestiture transaction closes. (8) These amounts include $193 million related to uncertain tax positions. Expected pension funding obligations have not been included in this table, but are presented and discussed in the section immediately below. Pension Funding and Estimates Funded Status As compared to the projected benefit obligation, our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $492 million and $448 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A detailed reconciliation of the 2010 changes to our underfunded status is in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Of the $492 million underfunded status at the end of 2010, $198 million is attributable to various nonqualified defined benefit plans that have no plan assets. However, we have established certain trusts to fund the benefit obligations of such nonqualified plans. As of December 31, 2010, these trusts had investments with a fair value of $36 million. The value of these trusts is in noncurrent other assets in our consolidated balance sheets included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. As compared to the accumulated benefit obligation, our qualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $218 million at December 31, 2010. The accumulated benefit obligation differs from the projected benefit obligation in that the former includes no assumption about future compensation levels. Our funding policy regarding the qualified defined benefit plans is to contribute the amounts necessary for the plans assets to approximately equal the present value of benefits earned by the participants, as calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Protection Act. While we did have investment gains in 2010 and 2009, the investment losses experienced during 2008 significantly reduced the value of our 60 Table of Contents plans assets. We estimate we will contribute approximately $84 million to our qualified pension plans during 2011. However, actual contributions may be different than this amount. Our funding policy regarding the nonqualified defined benefit plans is to supplement as needed the amounts accumulated in the related trusts with available cash and cash equivalents. Pension Estimate Assumptions Our pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods and is impacted by funding decisions or requirements. We recognized expense for our defined benefit pension plans of $85 million, $119 million and $61 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We estimate that our pension expense will approximate $91 million in 2011. Should our actual 2011 contributions to qualified and nonqualified plans vary significantly from our current estimate of $93 million, our actual 2011 pension expense could vary from this estimate. The calculation of pension expense and pension liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and actual experience can differ from the assumptions. We believe that the two most critical assumptions affecting pension expense and liabilities are the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. We assumed that our plan assets would generate a long term weighted average rate of return of 6.94% and 7.18% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We developed these expected long term rate of return assumptions by evaluating input from external consultants and economists as well as long term inflation assumptions. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets is based on a target allocation of investment types in such assets. At December 31, 2010, the target allocations for plan assets were 47.5% for equity securities, 40% for fixed income securities and 12.5% for other investment types. Equity securities consist of investments in large capitalization and small capitalization companies, both domestic and international. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of investment grade companies from diverse industries, United States Treasury obligations and asset backed securities. Other investment types include short term investment funds and a hedge fund of funds. We expect our long term asset allocation on average to approximate the targeted allocation. We regularly review our actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance the investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on plan assets decreases. A decrease in our long term rate of return assumption of 100 basis points would increase the expected 2011 pension expense by $6 million. We discounted our future pension obligations using a weighted average rate of 5.50% and 6.00% at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The discount rate is determined at the end of each year based on the rate at which obligations could be effectively settled, considering the expected timing of future cash flows related to the plans. This rate is based on high quality bond yields, after allowing for call and default risk. High quality corporate bond yield indices are considered when selecting the discount rate. The pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 25 basis points would increase our pension liability at December 31, 2010, by $37 million, and increase estimated 2011 pension expense by $5 million. At December 31, 2010, we had net actuarial losses of $357 million, which will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years. These losses are primarily due to investment losses on plan assets in 2008, reductions in the discount rate since 2001 and increases in participant wages. We estimate that approximately $32 million and $26 million of the unrecognized actuarial losses will be included in pension expense in 2011 and 2012, respectively. The $32 million estimated to be recognized in 2011 is a component of the total estimated 2011 pension expense of $91 million referred to earlier in this section. Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our defined benefit pension plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. 61 Table of Contents Contingencies and Legal Matters For a detailed discussion of contingencies and legal matters, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from these estimates, and changes in these estimates are recorded when known. The critical accounting policies used by management in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. Our critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates related to those policies are described below. We have reviewed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Full Cost Method of Accounting and Proved Reserves Policy Description We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. Under this method all costs associated with property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized, including our internal costs that can be directly identified with such activities. Capitalized costs are depleted on an equivalent unit of production method, converting gas to oil at the ratio of six thousand cubic feet of gas to one barrel of oil. Depletion is calculated using the capitalized costs, including estimated asset retirement costs, plus the estimated future expenditures to be incurred in developing proved reserves, net of estimated salvage values. Costs associated with unproved properties are excluded from the depletion calculation until it is determined whether or not proved reserves can be assigned to such properties. The full cost method subjects companies to quarterly calculations of a ceiling, or limitation on the amount of properties that can be capitalized on the balance sheet. The ceiling limitation is the discounted estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, excluding future cash outflows associated with settling asset retirement obligations included in the net book value of oil and gas properties, plus the cost of properties not subject to amortization. If our net book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes, is in excess of the calculated ceiling, the excess must be written off as an expense. The ceiling limitation is imposed separately for each country in which we have oil and gas properties. An expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher oil and gas prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. Judgments and Assumptions Our estimates of proved reserves are a major component of the depletion and full cost ceiling calculations. Additionally, our proved reserves represent the element of these calculations that require the most subjective judgments. Estimates of reserves are forecasts based on engineering data, projected future rates of production and the timing of future expenditures. The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves requires substantial judgment, resulting in imprecise determinations, particularly for new discoveries. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities based on the same data. Certain of our reserve estimates are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants, while other reserve estimates are prepared by our engineers. See Note 22 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of the amount of our reserves that are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants. The passage of time provides more qualitative information regarding estimates of reserves, when revisions are made to prior estimates to reflect updated information. In the past five years, annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates, which have been both increases and decreases in individual years, have averaged less 62 Table of Contents than 2% of the previous years estimate. However, there can be no assurance that more significant revisions will not be necessary in the future. The data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. While the quantities of proved reserves require substantial judgment, the associated prices of oil, gas and NGL reserves, and the applicable discount rate, that are used to calculate the discounted present value of the reserves do not require judgment. The ceiling calculation dictates that a 10% discount factor be used and future net revenues are calculated using prices that represent the average of the first day of the month price for the 12 month period prior to the end of each quarterly period. Therefore, the future net revenues associated with the estimated proved reserves are not based on our assessment of future prices or costs. In calculating the ceiling, we adjust the end of period price by the effect of derivative contracts in place that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. This adjustment requires little judgment as the calculated average price is adjusted using the contract prices for such hedges. None of our outstanding derivative contracts at December 31, 2010 qualified for hedge accounting treatment. Because the ceiling calculation dictates the use of prices that are not representative of future prices and requires a 10% discount factor, the resulting value is not indicative of the true fair value of the reserves. Oil and gas prices have historically been cyclical and, for any particular 12 month period, can be either higher or lower than our long term price forecast, which is a more appropriate input for estimating fair value. Therefore, oil and gas property writedowns that result from applying the full cost ceiling limitation, and that are caused by fluctuations in price as opposed to reductions to the underlying quantities of reserves, should not be viewed as absolute indicators of a reduction of the ultimate value of the related reserves. Because of the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict the timing or magnitude of full cost writedowns. In addition, due to the inter relationship of the various judgments made to estimate proved reserves, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates. However, decreases in estimates of proved reserves would generally increase our depletion rate and, thus, our depletion expense. Decreases in our proved reserves may also increase the likelihood of recognizing a full cost ceiling writedown. Derivative Financial Instruments Policy Description We periodically enter into derivative financial instruments with respect to a portion of our oil, gas and NGL production that hedge the future prices received. These instruments are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to commodity price volatility. Our commodity derivative financial instruments include financial price swaps, basis swaps, costless price collars and call options. Additionally, we periodically enter into interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. Under the terms of certain of our interest rate swaps, we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate on a total notional amount. The remainder of our swaps represent forward starting swaps, under which we will pay a fixed rate and receive a floating rate on a total notional amount. All derivative financial instruments are recognized at their current fair value as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments are recorded in the statement of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. For derivative financial instruments held during 2010, 2009 and 2008, we chose not to meet the necessary criteria to qualify our derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting treatment. Cash settlements with counterparties to our derivative financial instruments also increase or decrease earnings at the time of the settlement. Judgments and Assumptions The estimates of the fair values of our derivative instruments require substantial judgment. We estimate the fair values of our commodity derivative financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future 63 Table of Contents commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted primarily using United States Treasury bill rates. These pricing and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward prices and regional price differentials. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by third parties. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted using the LIBOR and money market futures rates. These yield and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties and or brokers. In spite of the recent turmoil in the financial markets, counterparty credit risk has not had a significant effect on our cash flow calculations and derivative valuations. This is primarily the result of two factors. First, we have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with numerous counterparties. Our commodity derivative contracts are held with thirteen separate counterparties, and our interest rate derivative contracts are held with seven separate counterparties. Second, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold for collateral posting decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2010, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. Because we have chosen not to qualify our derivatives for hedge accounting treatment, changes in the fair values of derivatives can have a significant impact on our results of operations. Generally, changes in derivative fair values will not impact our liquidity or capital resources. Settlements of derivative instruments, regardless of whether they qualify for hedge accounting, do have an impact on our liquidity and results of operations. Generally, if actual market prices are higher than the price of the derivative instruments, our net earnings and cash flow from operations will be lower relative to the results that would have occurred absent these instruments. The opposite is also true. Additional information regarding the effects that changes in market prices can have on our derivative financial instruments, net earnings and cash flow from operations is included in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Goodwill Policy Description Accounting for the acquisition of a business requires the allocation of the purchase price to the tangible and intangible net assets acquired with any excess recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to assigned reporting units. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated and compared to the net book value of the reporting unit. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the net book value, including goodwill, then the goodwill is written down to the implied fair value of the goodwill through a charge to expense. Judgments and Assumptions The annual impairment test, which we conduct as of October 31 each year, requires us to estimate the fair values of our own assets and liabilities. Because quoted market prices are not available for our reporting 64 Table of Contents units, we must estimate the fair values to conduct the goodwill impairment test. The most significant judgments involved in estimating the fair values of our reporting units relate to the valuation of our property and equipment. We develop estimated fair values of our property and equipment by performing various quantitative analyses based upon information related to comparable companies, comparable transactions and premiums paid. In our comparable companies analysis, we review the public stock market trading multiples for selected publicly traded independent exploration and production companies with financial and operating characteristics that are comparable to our respective reporting units. Such characteristics are market capitalization, location of proved reserves and the characterization of the reserves. In our comparable transactions analysis, we review certain acquisition multiples for selected independent exploration and production company transactions and oil and gas asset packages announced recently. In our premiums paid analysis, we use a sample of selected independent exploration and production company transactions in addition to selected transactions of all publicly traded companies announced recently, to review the premiums paid to the price of the target one day and one month prior to the announcement of the transaction. We use this information to determine the mean and median premiums paid. We then use the comparable company multiples, comparable transaction multiples, transaction premiums and other data to develop valuation estimates of our property and equipment. We also use market and other data to develop valuation estimates of the other assets and liabilities included in our reporting units. At October 31, 2010, the date of our last impairment test, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units substantially exceeded their related carrying values. A lower goodwill value decreases the likelihood of an impairment charge. However, unfavorable changes in reserves or in our price forecast would increase the likelihood of a goodwill impairment charge. A goodwill impairment charge would have no effect on liquidity or capital resources. However, it would adversely affect our results of operations in that period. Due to the inter relationship of the various estimates involved in assessing goodwill for impairment, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates, other than to note the historical average changes in our reserve estimates previously set forth. Income Taxes Policy Description We are required to estimate federal, state, provincial and foreign income taxes for each jurisdiction in which we operate. This process involves estimating the actual current tax exposure together with assessing future tax consequences resulting in deferred income taxes. We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for the future tax benefits attributable to the expected utilization of existing tax net operating loss carryforwards and other types of carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Judgments and Assumptions The amount of income taxes recorded requires interpretations of complex rules and regulations of federal, state, provincial and foreign tax jurisdictions. We recognize current tax expense based on estimated taxable income for the current period applied at the applicable statutory tax rates. We routinely assess potential uncertain tax positions and, if required, estimate and establish accruals for such amounts. We have recognized deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences, operating losses and other tax carryforwards. We routinely assess our deferred tax assets and reduce such assets by a valuation allowance if we deem it is more 65 Table of Contents likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The accruals for deferred tax assets and liabilities are subject to a significant amount of judgment by management and are reviewed and adjusted routinely based on changes in facts and circumstances. Material changes in these accruals may occur in the future, based on the progress of ongoing tax audits, changes in legislation and resolution of pending tax matters. Forward Looking Estimates We are providing our 2011 forward looking estimates in this section. These estimates were based on our examination of historical operating trends, the information used to prepare our December 31, 2010, reserve reports and other data in our possession or available from third parties. The forward looking estimates in this report were prepared assuming demand, curtailment, producibility and general market conditions for our oil, gas and NGLs during 2011 will be similar to 2010, unless otherwise noted. We make reference to the Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this report. Amounts related to our Canadian operations have been converted to U.S. dollars using an estimated average 2011 exchange rate of $0.95 dollar to $1.00 Canadian dollar. During 2011, our operations are substantially comprised of our ongoing North America Onshore operations. We also have International operations in Brazil and Angola that we are divesting. We have entered into agreements to sell our assets in Brazil for $3.2 billion and our assets in Angola for $70 million, plus contingent consideration. As a result of these divestitures, all revenues, expenses and capital related to our International operations are reported as discontinued operations in our financial statements. Additionally, all forward looking estimates in this document exclude amounts related to our International operations, unless otherwise noted. North America Onshore Operating Items The following 2011 estimates relate only to our North America Onshore assets. Oil, Gas and NGL Production Set forth below are our estimates of oil, gas and NGL production for 2011. We estimate that our combined oil, gas and NGL production will total approximately 236 to 240 MMBoe. Oil Gas NGLs Total (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) U.S. Onshore 17 736 34 174 Canada 28 199 3 64 North America Onshore 45 935 37 238 Oil and Gas Prices We expect our 2011 average prices for the oil and gas production from each of our operating areas to differ from the NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The expected ranges for prices are exclusive of the anticipated effects of the financial contracts presented in the Commodity Price Risk Management section below. The NYMEX price for oil is determined using the monthly average of settled prices on each trading day for benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude oil delivered at Cushing, Oklahoma. The NYMEX price for gas is determined using the first of month South Louisiana Henry Hub price index as published monthly in Inside FERC. 66 Table of Contents Expected Range of Prices as a % of NYMEX Price Oil Gas U.S. Onshore 89% to 99% 80% to 90% Canada 63% to 73% 82% to 92% North America Onshore 73% to 83% 80% to 90% Commodity Price Risk Management From time to time, we enter into NYMEX related financial commodity collar and price swap contracts. Such contracts are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil, gas and NGL price volatility. Although these financial contracts do not relate to specific production from our operating areas, they will affect our overall revenues, earnings and cash flow in 2011. As of February 10, 2011, our financial commodity contracts pertaining to 2011 consisted of oil price collars, oil call options, gas price swaps, gas basis swaps and NGL basis swaps. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 730,226 $ 5.49 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 Panhandle Eastern Pipeline 150,000 $ 0.33 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 45,000 $ 75.00 $75.00 $ 75.00 $ 105.00 $116.10 $ 108.89 Oil Call Options Sold Weighted Volume Average Price Period (Bbls /d) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 19,500 $ 95.00 NGL Basis Swaps Pay Natural Receive Volume Gasoline Oil Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 500 $ 70.77 $ 80.52 To the extent that monthly NYMEX prices in 2011 are outside of the ranges established by the collars or differ from those established by the swaps, we and the counterparties to the contracts will cash settle the difference. Such settlements will either increase or decrease our revenues for the period. Also, we will mark to market the contracts based on their fair values throughout 2011. Changes in the contracts fair values will also be recorded as increases or decreases to our revenues. The expected ranges of our realized prices as a percentage of NYMEX prices, which are presented earlier in this report, do not include any estimates of the impact on our prices from monthly settlements or changes in the fair values of our price collars and swaps. 67 Table of Contents Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Expenses Marketing and midstream revenues and expenses are derived primarily from our gas processing plants and gas pipeline systems. These revenues and expenses vary in response to several factors. The factors include, but are not limited to, changes in production and NGL content from wells connected to the pipelines and related processing plants, changes in the absolute and relative prices of gas and NGLs, provisions of contractual agreements and the amount of repair and maintenance activity required to maintain anticipated processing levels and pipeline throughput volumes. These factors increase the uncertainty inherent in estimating future marketing and midstream revenues and expenses. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our 2011 marketing and midstream operating profit will be between $485 million and $535 million. We estimate that marketing and midstream revenues will be between $1.485 billion and $1.760 billion, and marketing and midstream expenses will be between $1.000 billion and $1.225 billion. Production and Operating Expenses These expenses, which include transportation costs, vary in response to several factors. Among the most significant of these factors are additions to or deletions from the property base, changes in the general price level of services and materials that are used in the operation of the properties, as well as the amount of repair and workover activity required. Additionally, lease operating expenses associated with oil production, particularly heavy oil production, are generally higher than operating expenses associated with gas and NGL production. Oil, gas and NGL prices also have an effect on lease operating expenses and impact the economic feasibility of planned workover projects. Given these uncertainties, we expect that our 2011 lease operating expenses will be between $1.78 billion and $1.88 billion. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Our taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes that relate to our U.S. Onshore properties and are assessed by various government agencies. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. Over time, a certain propertys assessed value will increase or decrease due to changes in commodity sales prices, production volumes and proved reserves. Therefore, ad valorem taxes will generally move in the same direction as our oil, gas and NGL sales but in a less predictable manner compared to production taxes. Additionally, both production and ad valorem taxes will increase or decrease due to changes in the rates assessed by the government agencies. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our taxes other than income taxes for 2011 will be between 5.20% and 6.20% of total oil, gas and NGL sales. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DDA) Our 2011 oil and gas property DDA rate will depend on various factors. Most notable among such factors are the amount of proved reserves that will be added from drilling or acquisition efforts in 2011 compared to the costs incurred for such efforts, revisions to our year end 2010 reserve estimates that, based on prior experience, are likely to be made during 2011, as well as potential carrying value reductions that result from full cost ceiling tests. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our oil and gas property related DDA rate will be between $7.40 per Boe and $8.00 per Boe. Based on these DDA rates and the production estimates set forth earlier, oil and gas property related DDA expense for 2010 is expected to be between $1.76 billion and $1.90 billion. 68 Table of Contents Additionally, we expect that our depreciation and amortization expense related to non oil and gas fixed assets will total between $265 million and $295 million in 2011. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligation Accretion of asset retirement obligation in 2011 is expected to be between $85 million and $95 million. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our GA includes employee compensation and benefits costs and the costs of many different goods and services used in support of our business. GA varies with the level of our operating activities and the related staffing and professional services requirements. In addition, employee compensation and benefits costs vary due to various market factors that affect the level and type of compensation and benefits offered to employees. Also, goods and services are subject to general price level increases or decreases. Therefore, significant variances in any of these factors from current expectations could cause actual GA to vary materially from the estimate. Given these limitations, we estimate our GA for 2011 will be between $590 million and $630 million. This estimate includes approximately $110 million of non cash, share based compensation, net of related capitalization in accordance with the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Interest Expense Future interest rates and debt outstanding have a significant effect on our interest expense. We can only marginally influence the prices we will receive in 2011 from sales of oil, gas and NGLs and the resulting cash flow. This increases the margin of error inherent in estimating future outstanding debt balances and related interest expense. Other factors that affect outstanding debt balances and related interest expense, such as the amount and timing of capital expenditures, are generally within our control. As of December 31, 2010, we had total debt of $5.6 billion, which is exclusively fixed rate debt at an overall weighted average rate of 7.1%. Our debt includes $1.75 billion that is scheduled to mature on September 30, 2011. We also have access to the commercial paper market and our credit lines. Any commercial paper or credit line borrowings would bear interest at variable rates. Based on the factors above, we expect our 2011 interest expense to be between $300 million and $340 million. The estimated interest expense is exclusive of the anticipated effects of the interest rate swap contracts presented in the Interest Rate Risk Management section below. The 2011 interest expense estimate above is comprised of three primary components interest related to outstanding debt, fees and issuance costs and capitalized interest. We expect interest expense in 2011 related to our outstanding debt, including net accretion of related discounts, to be between $380 million and $420 million. We expect interest expense in 2011 related to facility and agency fees, amortization of debt issuance costs and other miscellaneous items not related to outstanding debt balances to be between $5 million and $15 million. During 2011, we also expect to capitalize between $85 million and $95 million of interest, of which $45 to $55 million relates to our continuing oil and gas activities and the remainder relates to certain corporate construction projects and our discontinued operations. Interest Rate Risk Management From time to time, we enter into interest rate swaps. Such contracts are used to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. As of December 31, 2010, our interest rate swaps pertaining to 2011 consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $2.10 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate 69 Table of Contents of 3.92% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 950 3.92 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 Income Taxes Our financial income tax rate in 2011 will vary materially depending on the actual amount of financial pre tax earnings. The tax rate for 2011 will be significantly affected by the proportional share of consolidated pre tax earnings generated by our United States and Canadian operations due to the different tax rates of each country. Also, certain tax deductions and credits will have a fixed impact on 2011 income tax expense regardless of the level of pre tax earnings that are produced. Additionally, significant changes in estimated capital expenditures, production levels of oil, gas and NGLs, the prices of such products, marketing and midstream revenues, or any of the various expense items could materially alter the effect of these tax deductions and credits on 2011 financial income tax rates. Given the uncertainty of pre tax earnings, we expect that our total financial income tax rate in 2011 will be between 20% and 40%. The current income tax rate is expected to be between 0% and 10%. The deferred income tax rate is expected to be between 20% and 30%. Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity North America Onshore Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures budget is based on an expected range of future oil, gas and NGL prices as well as the expected costs of the capital additions. Should actual prices received differ materially from our price expectations for our future production, some projects may be accelerated or deferred and, consequently, may increase or decrease total 2011 capital expenditures. In addition, if the actual material or labor costs of the budgeted items vary significantly from the anticipated amounts, actual capital expenditures could vary materially from our estimates. Given the limitations discussed above, we estimate that our 2011 oil and gas development and exploration capital expenditures will be between $4.500 billion and $4.900 billion. We estimate that our development capital will be between $3.875 billion and $4.175 billion. Development capital includes activity related to reserves classified as proved and drilling that does not offset currently productive units and for which there is not a certainty of continued production from a known productive formation. Development capital also includes estimates for plugging and abandonment charges. We estimate that our exploration capital will be between $625 million and $725 million. Exploration capital includes exploratory drilling to find and produce oil or gas in previously untested fault blocks or new reservoirs. Exploration capital also includes purchases of proved and unproved leasehold acreage. In addition to the development and exploration expenditures, we expect to 70 Table of Contents capitalize between $330 million and $350 million of GA expenses and between $45 million and $55 million of interest related to our oil and gas activities. In addition, we expect to spend between $225 million and $300 million on our midstream assets, which primarily include our oil pipelines, gas processing plants, and gas gathering and pipeline systems. We also expect total capital for corporate activities will be between $300 million and $395 million, including approximately $30 million of capitalized interest related to certain construction projects. Other Cash Uses In May 2010, our Board of Directors approved a $3.5 billion share repurchase program. This program expires on December 31, 2011. Through February 10, 2011, we had repurchased 23.5 million common shares for $1.6 billion, or $69.60 per share. Our management expects the policy of paying a quarterly common stock dividend to continue. With the current $0.16 per share quarterly dividend rate and expected share repurchases, 2011 dividends are expected to approximate $264 million. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our estimated 2011 cash uses, including our capital activities, are expected to be funded primarily through a combination of our existing cash balances and operating cash flow, supplemented with commercial paper borrowings. At the beginning of 2011, we held $3.4 billion in cash and short term investments. The amount of operating cash flow to be generated during 2011 is uncertain due to the factors affecting revenues and expenses as previously cited. However, if our operating cash flow were significantly less than our estimates, we would access the commercial paper market. Also, we have credit lines that we could access if deemed necessary. As of February 10, 2011, we had $2.0 billion of available credit under our credit lines. Another major source of liquidity in 2011 will be the proceeds from the divestiture of our assets in Brazil and, to a lesser extent, the divestiture of our assets in Angola. These sources of liquidity will allow us to continue repurchasing common shares and investing in the opportunities that exist across our North America Onshore portfolio of properties. We expect our combined capital resources to be adequate to fund our anticipated capital expenditures and other cash uses for 2011. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to our risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The following disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than speculative trading. Commodity Price Risk Our major market risk exposure is in the pricing applicable to our oil, gas and NGL production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to our U.S. and Canadian gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil, gas and NGL production has been volatile and unpredictable for several years. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Consequently, we periodically enter into financial hedging activities with respect to a portion of our oil, gas and NGL production through various financial transactions that hedge the future prices received. These transactions include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Additionally, to facilitate a portion of our price swaps, we have sold gas 71 Table of Contents call options for 2012 and oil call options for 2011 and 2012. The key terms of our derivatives in place as of December 31, 2010 are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 712,500 $ 5.51 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 Panhandle Eastern Pipeline 150,000 $ 0.33 Gas Call Options Sold Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2012 487,500 $ 6.00 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 45,000 $ 75.00 $75.00 $ 75.00 $ 105.00 $116.10 $ 108.89 Oil Call Options Sold Weighted Volume Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 19,500 $ 95.00 Total year 2012 19,500 $ 95.00 NGL Basis Swaps Pay Natural Receive Volume Gasoline Oil Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 500 $ 70.77 $ 80.52 Total year 2012 500 $ 71.82 $ 81.92 The fair values of our commodity derivatives presented in the tables above are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the relevant price indices. At December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our gas derivative instruments would have decreased the fair value of such instruments by approximately $154 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil derivative instruments would have decreased the fair value of these instruments by approximately $142 million. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2010, we had debt outstanding of $5.6 billion with fixed rates averaging 7.1%. As of December 31, 2010, our interest rate swaps consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $2.1 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we 72 Table of Contents elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate of 3.92% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 950 3.92 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 The fair values of our interest rate instruments are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the Federal Funds rate and LIBOR. At December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased the fair value of our interest rate swaps by approximately $68 million. Foreign Currency Risk Our net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our Canadian subsidiaries are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the Canadian dollar functional currency. Assets and liabilities of the Canadian subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of a reporting period. Revenues, expenses and cash flow are translated using the average exchange rate during the reporting period. A 10% unfavorable change in the Canadian to U.S. dollar exchange rate would not materially impact our December 31, 2010 balance sheet. 73 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share amounts) Revenues $ 9,940 $ 8,015 $ 13,858 $ 9,975 $ 9,143 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations(1) $ 2,333 $ (2,753 ) $ (3,039 ) $ 2,485 $ 2,316 Earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations Basic $ 5.31 $ (6.20 ) $ (6.86 ) $ 5.56 $ 5.22 Earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations Diluted $ 5.29 $ (6.20 ) $ (6.86 ) $ 5.50 $ 5.15 Cash dividends per common share $ 0.64 $ 0.64 $ 0.64 $ 0.56 $ 0.45 Total assets(1) $ 32,927 $ 29,686 $ 31,908 $ 41,456 $ 35,063 Long term debt $ 3,819 $ 5,847 $ 5,661 $ 6,924 $ 5,568 (1) During 2009 and 2008, we recorded noncash reductions of carrying value of oil and gas properties totaling $6.4 billion ($4.1 billion after income taxes) and $9.9 billion ($6.7 billion after income taxes), respectively, related to our continuing operations as discussed in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. 33 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The following discussion and analysis presents managements perspective of our business, financial condition and overall performance. This information is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our past performance, current financial condition and outlook for the future and should be reviewed in conjunction with our Selected Financial Data and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our discussion and analysis relates to the following subjects: Overview of Business Overview of 2010 Results Business and Industry Outlook Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Contingencies and Legal Matters Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Forward Looking Estimates Overview of Business Devon is one of North Americas leading independent oil and gas exploration and production companies. Our operations are focused in the United States and Canada. We also own natural gas pipelines and treatment facilities in many of our producing areas, making us one of North Americas larger processors of natural gas liquids. As an enterprise, we strive to optimize value for our shareholders by growing cash flows, earnings, production and reserves, all on a per debt adjusted share basis. We accomplish this by replenishing our reserves and production and managing other key operational elements that drive our success. These items are discussed more fully below. Reserves and production growth Our financial condition and profitability are significantly affected by the amount of proved reserves we own. Oil and gas properties are our most significant assets, and the reserves that relate to such properties are key to our future success. To increase our proved reserves, we must replace quantities produced with additional reserves from successful exploration and development activities or property acquisitions. Additionally, our profitability and operating cash flows are largely dependent on the amount of oil, gas and NGLs we produce. Growing production from existing properties is difficult because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. As a result, we constantly drill for and develop reserves on properties that provide a balance of near term and long term production. In addition, we may acquire properties with proved reserves that we can develop and subsequently produce to help create value. Capital investment discipline Effectively deploying our resources into capital projects is key to maintaining and growing future production and oil and gas reserves. As a result, we have historically deployed virtually all our available cash flow into capital projects. Therefore, maintaining a disciplined approach to investing in capital projects is important to our profitability and financial condition. Our ability to control capital expenditures can be affected by changes in commodity prices. During times of high commodity prices, drilling and related costs often escalate due to the effects of supply versus demand economics. The inverse is also true. High return projects We seek to invest our capital resources into projects where we can generate the highest risk adjusted investment returns. One factor that can have a significant impact on such returns is our drilling success. Combined with appropriate revenue and cost management strategies, 34 Table of Contents high drilling success rates are important to generating competitive returns on our capital investment. During 2010, we drilled 1,588 gross wells and 99% of those were successful. This success rate is similar to our drilling achievements in recent years, demonstrating a proven track record of success. By accomplishing high drilling success rates, we provide an inventory of reserves growth and a platform of opportunities on our undrilled acreage that can be profitably developed. Reserves and production balance As evidenced by history, commodity prices are inherently volatile. In addition, oil and gas prices often diverge due to a variety of circumstances. Consequently, we value a balance of reserves and production between gas and liquids that can add stability to our revenue stream when either commodity price is under pressure. Our production mix in 2010 was approximately 68% gas and 32% oil and NGLs such as propane, butane and ethane. Our year end reserves were approximately 60% gas and 40% liquids. With planned future growth in oil from Jackfish, Pike and other projects, combined with an inventory of shale natural gas plays, we expect to maintain this balance in the future. Operating cost controls To maintain our competitive position, we must control our lease operating costs and other production costs. As reservoirs are depleted and production rates decline, per unit production costs will generally increase and affect our profitability and operating cash flows. Similar to capital expenditures, our ability to control operating costs can be affected by significant changes in commodity prices. Our base production is focused in core areas of our operations where we can achieve economies of scale to help manage our operating costs. Marketing and midstream performance improvement We enhance the value of our oil and gas operations with our marketing and midstream business. By efficiently gathering and processing oil, gas and NGL production, our midstream operations enhance our project returns and contribute to our strategies to grow reserves and production and manage expenditures. Additionally, by effectively marketing our production, we maximize the prices received for our oil, gas and NGL production in relation to market prices. This is important because our profitability is highly dependent on market prices. These prices are determined primarily by market conditions. Market conditions for these products have been, and will continue to be, influenced by regional and worldwide economic and political conditions, weather, supply disruptions and other local market conditions that are beyond our control. To manage this volatility, we utilize financial hedging arrangements. As of February 10, 2011, approximately 29% of our 2011 gas production is associated with financial price swaps and fixed price physicals. We also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2011 gas production. Additionally, approximately 36% of our 2011 oil production is associated with financial price collars. We also have call options that, if exercised, would relate to an additional 16% of our 2011 oil production. Financial flexibility preservation As mentioned, commodity prices have been and will continue to be volatile and will continue to impact our profitability and cash flow. We understand this fact and manage our debt levels accordingly to preserve our liquidity and financial flexibility. We generally operate within the cash flow generated by our operations. However, during periods of low commodity prices, we may use our balance sheet strength to access debt or equity markets, allowing us to preserve our business and maintain momentum until markets recover. When prices improve, we can utilize excess operating cash flow to repay debt and invest in our activities that not only maintain but also increase value per share. Overview of 2010 Results 2010 was an outstanding year for Devon. We reported record net earnings and reserves and made significant progress on our offshore divestiture program announced in November 2009. We sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan, China and other International regions, generating $5.6 billion in after tax proceeds and after tax gains of $1.7 billion. Additionally, we have entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective governments to approve the 35 Table of Contents divestitures. Once the pending transactions are complete, we expect to have generated more than $8 billion in after tax proceeds from all our divestitures. These divestitures have allowed us to begin focusing entirely on our North American Onshore oil and natural gas portfolio. We grew North American Onshore production 1% in 2010 and replaced approximately 175% of our production with the drill bit at very attractive costs. The operational success we had with the drill bit increased our reserves to 2,873 MMBoe, the highest level in our history. While our total North American Onshore production grew 1% in 2010, our oil and NGL production increased 6% over 2009. Liquids prices began to stabilize in 2009 and continued to strengthen throughout 2010. Although our realized price for gas increased 17% in 2010, gas prices continue to be weak. Considering the current and expected trends in commodity pricing, we have leveraged the value of our balanced portfolio and shifted capital spending toward the more profitable liquids rich development opportunities currently available to us. The performance of these assets and higher price realizations are reflected in the 2010 earnings increase. Key measures of our performance for 2010, as well as certain operational developments, are summarized below: North America Onshore oil and NGL production grew 6% over 2009, to 71 million Boe. North American Onshore gas production decreased 1% compared with 2009, to 152 million Boe. The combined realized price for oil, gas and NGLs per Boe increased 22% to $31.91. Oil, gas and NGL derivatives generated net gains of $811 million in 2010, including cash receipts of $888 million. Per unit lease operating costs increased 4% to $7.42 per Boe. Operating cash flow increased to $5.5 billion, representing a 16% increase over 2009. Capitalized costs incurred in our oil and gas activities were $6.5 billion in 2010. This includes $1.2 billion for unproved acreage acquisitions. Reserves increased to 2,873 MMBoe, an all time high. From an operational perspective, we completed another successful year with the drill bit. We drilled 1,584 gross wells on our North America Onshore properties with a 99% success rate and grew our related proved reserves 9%. During 2010, we more than doubled our industry leading leasehold position in the liquids rich Cana Woodford shale play in western Oklahoma to more than 240,000 net acres. This allowed us to grow production more than 210% from the end of 2009 to the end of 2010. As a result of the success of our drilling and development efforts in the Cana Woodford shale, we also constructed a gas processing plant in 2010. In the Barnett Shale, we exited 2010 with production of 1.2 Bcfe per day, which includes 43 MBbls per day of liquids production. This represents a 16% increase in total production compared to the 2009 exit rate. In the Permian Basin, we continued to assemble additional liquids rich acreage. By the end of 2010, we had approximately one million net acres on liquids rich development opportunities which led to an increase in production of 16% from the end of 2009 to the end of 2010. Our net production from our Jackfish oil sands project in Canada averaged 25 MBbls per day. Jackfish continues to be one of Canadas most successful steam assisted gravity drainage projects. Construction of our second Jackfish project is now complete. We expect to have first oil production by the end of 2011. Additionally, we applied for regulatory approval of a third phase of Jackfish in 2010. During 2010, we used a portion of our offshore divestiture proceeds to invest $1.2 billion in unproved leasehold acquisition focused on oil and liquids rich gas plays. Our most significant single investment was our $500 million acquisition of a 50% interest in the Pike oil sands. The Pike acreage lies immediately adjacent to 36 Table of Contents the Jackfish project. We began appraisal drilling at Pike near the end of 2010 and are acquiring seismic data. The drilling results and seismic will help us determine the optimal configuration for the initial phase of development. We expect to begin the regulatory application process for the first Pike phase around the end of 2011. Our performance and offshore divestiture success throughout 2010 enabled us to end the year with a robust level of liquidity. At the end of 2010, we had $3.4 billion of cash and short term investments and $2.6 billion of available credit. Business and Industry Outlook Even though we possess a great deal of financial strength and flexibility, we are fully committed to exercising capital discipline, maximizing profits, maintaining balance sheet strength and optimizing growth per debt adjusted share. Our portfolio of assets provides a great deal of investment flexibility. At the end of 2010, our proved reserves were comprised of approximately 60% gas and 40% liquids. While gas prices remain challenged in the market, our near term focus is on the oil and liquids rich opportunities that exist within our balanced portfolio of properties. As a result, the vast majority of our 2011 drilling activity will be centered on our oil and liquids rich gas properties. Should the outlook for commodity prices change, we have the flexibility to redirect our capital to ensure we continually focus on the highest return assets in our portfolio. Our ability to leverage the depth and breadth of our existing portfolio of properties will be key to the successful execution of our growth and value creation objectives. With 2.9 billion Boe of proved reserves at the end of 2010, our North American onshore assets will provide many years of visible, economic growth and a good balance between liquids and natural gas. In 2011, we are targeting a 6 8% production increase. However, we expect this growth will be driven by oil and NGLs growth of at least 16%. Additionally, we will continue to use a portion of our offshore divestiture proceeds to repurchase common stock under our $3.5 billion share repurchase program. Therefore, our 2011 production growth will be even higher on a per debt adjusted share basis. Results of Operations As previously stated, we are in the process of divesting our offshore assets. As a result, all amounts in this document related to our International operations are presented as discontinued. Therefore, the production, revenue and expense amounts presented in this Results of Operations section exclude amounts related to our International assets unless otherwise noted. Even though we have divested our U.S. Offshore operations, these properties do not qualify as discontinued operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and operating data provided in this document that pertain to our continuing operations include amounts related to our U.S. Offshore operations. To facilitate comparisons of our ongoing operations subsequent to the planned divestitures, we have presented amounts related to our U.S. Offshore assets separate from those of our North American Onshore assets where appropriate. 37 Table of Contents Revenues Our oil, gas and NGL production volumes are shown in the following table. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009(2) 2009 2008(2) 2008 Oil (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 14 +17 % 12 +3 % 11 Canada 25 1 % 25 +17 % 22 North America Onshore 39 +5 % 37 +12 % 33 U.S. Offshore 2 62 % 5 15 % 6 Total 41 3 % 42 +8 % 39 Gas (Bcf) U.S. Onshore 699 +0 % 698 +5 % 669 Canada 214 4 % 223 +5 % 212 North America Onshore 913 1 % 921 +5 % 881 U.S. Offshore 17 63 % 45 22 % 57 Total 930 4 % 966 +3 % 938 NGLs (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 28 +10 % 25 +9 % 24 Canada 4 6 % 4 5 % 4 North America Onshore 32 +8 % 29 +7 % 28 U.S. Offshore 55 % 1 +27 % Total 32 +6 % 30 +7 % 28 Total (MMBoe)(1) U.S. Onshore 158 +3 % 154 +5 % 146 Canada 65 3 % 66 +9 % 61 North America Onshore 223 +1 % 220 +6 % 207 U.S. Offshore 5 62 % 13 18 % 16 Total 228 2 % 233 +4 % 223 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in the table. 38 Table of Contents The following table presents the prices we realized on our production volumes. These prices exclude any effects due to our oil, gas and NGL derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009 2009 2008 2008 Oil (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 75.53 +34 % $ 56.17 41 % $ 95.63 Canada $ 58.60 +24 % $ 47.35 33 % $ 71.04 North America Onshore $ 64.51 +29 % $ 50.11 37 % $ 79.45 U.S. Offshore $ 77.81 +28 % $ 60.75 42 % $ 104.90 Total $ 65.14 +27 % $ 51.39 38 % $ 83.35 Gas (per Mcf) U.S. Onshore $ 3.73 +19 % $ 3.14 58 % $ 7.43 Canada $ 4.11 +12 % $ 3.66 55 % $ 8.17 North America Onshore $ 3.82 +17 % $ 3.27 57 % $ 7.61 U.S. Offshore $ 5.12 +22 % $ 4.20 56 % $ 9.53 Total $ 3.84 +16 % $ 3.31 57 % $ 7.73 NGLs (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 30.78 +32 % $ 23.40 43 % $ 40.97 Canada $ 46.60 +41 % $ 33.09 46 % $ 61.45 North America Onshore $ 32.55 +32 % $ 24.65 44 % $ 43.94 U.S. Offshore $ 38.22 +39 % $ 27.42 46 % $ 51.11 Total $ 32.61 +32 % $ 24.71 44 % $ 44.08 Combined (per Boe)(1) U.S. Onshore $ 28.42 +27 % $ 22.41 53 % $ 47.91 Canada $ 39.11 +21 % $ 32.29 44 % $ 57.65 North America Onshore $ 31.52 +24 % $ 25.38 50 % $ 50.78 U.S. Offshore $ 49.06 +26 % $ 38.83 48 % $ 74.55 Total $ 31.91 +22 % $ 26.15 50 % $ 52.49 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. The volume and price changes in the tables above caused the following changes to our oil, gas and NGL sales between 2008 and 2010. Oil Gas NGLs Total (In millions) 2008 sales $ 3,233 $ 7,244 $ 1,243 $ 11,720 Changes due to volumes 258 222 89 569 Changes due to prices (1,338 ) (4,269 ) (585 ) (6,192 ) 2009 sales 2,153 3,197 747 6,097 Changes due to volumes (67 ) (122 ) 46 (143 ) Changes due to prices 557 497 254 1,308 2010 sales $ 2,643 $ 3,572 $ 1,047 $ 7,262 39 Table of Contents Oil Sales 2010 vs. 2009 Oil sales increased $557 million as a result of a 27% increase in our realized price. The largest contributor to the increase in our realized price was the increase in the average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price over the same time period. Oil sales decreased $67 million due to a three percent decrease in production. The decrease was comprised of the net effects of a 62% decrease in our U.S. Offshore production and a five percent increase in our North America Onshore production. The decrease in our U.S. Offshore production was primarily due to the divestiture of such properties in the second quarter of 2010. The increased North America Onshore production resulted primarily from continued development of our Permian Basin properties in Texas and our Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in Canada. 2009 vs. 2008 Oil sales decreased $1.3 billion as a result of a 38% decrease in our realized price without hedges. The largest contributor to the decrease in our realized price was the decrease in the average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price over the same time period. Oil sales increased $258 million due to a three million barrel, or 8%, increase in production. The increased production resulted primarily from the continued development of Jackfish in Canada. Gas Sales 2010 vs. 2009 Gas sales increased $497 million as a result of a 16% increase in our realized price without hedges. This increase was largely due to increases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A four percent decrease in production during 2010 caused gas sales to decrease by $122 million. The decrease was primarily due to the divestiture of our U.S. Offshore properties in the second quarter of 2010, as well as higher Canadian government royalties. Also, our other North America Onshore properties decreased one percent due to reduced drilling during most of 2009 in response to lower gas prices. As a result of the reduced drilling activities during 2009, natural declines of existing wells outpaced production gains from new drilling in 2010. 2009 vs. 2008 Gas sales decreased $4.3 billion as a result of a 57% decrease in our realized price without hedges. This decrease was largely due to decreases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A three percent increase in production during 2009 caused gas sales to increase by $222 million. Our North America Onshore properties contributed 40 Bcf of higher volumes. This increase included 25 Bcf of higher production in Canada due to a decline in Canadian government royalties, resulting largely from lower gas prices. The remainder of the North America Onshore growth resulted from new drilling and development that exceeded natural production declines, primarily in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas. These increases were partially offset by 12 Bcf of lower production from our U.S. Offshore properties, largely resulting from natural production declines. NGL Sales 2010 vs. 2009 NGL sales increased $254 million during 2010 as a result of a 32% increase in our realized price. The increase was largely due to an increase in the Mont Belvieu, Texas index price over the same time period. NGL sales increased $46 million in 2010 due to a six percent increase in production. The increase in production was primarily due to increased drilling in North America Onshore areas that have liquids rich gas. 2009 vs. 2008 NGL sales decreased $585 million as a result of a 44% decrease in our realized price. This decrease was largely due to a decrease in the Mont Belvieu, Texas index price over the same time period. NGL sales increased $89 million in 2009 due to a seven percent increase in production. The increase in production is primarily due to drilling and development in the Barnett Shale. 40 Table of Contents Oil, Gas and NGL Derivatives The following tables provide financial information associated with our oil, gas and NGL hedges. The first table presents the cash settlements and unrealized gains and losses recognized as components of our revenues. The subsequent tables present our oil, gas and NGL prices with, and without, the effects of the cash settlements. The prices do not include the effects of unrealized gains and losses. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Cash settlement receipts (payments): Gas derivatives $ 888 $ 505 $ (424 ) Oil derivatives 27 Total cash settlements 888 505 (397 ) Unrealized gains (losses) on fair value changes: Gas derivatives 12 (83 ) 243 Oil derivatives (91 ) (38 ) NGL derivatives 2 Total unrealized gains (losses) on fair value changes (77 ) (121 ) 243 Oil, gas and NGL derivatives $ 811 $ 384 $ (154 ) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 65.14 $ 3.84 $ 32.61 $ 31.91 Cash settlements of hedges 0.96 3.90 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 65.14 $ 4.80 $ 32.61 $ 35.81 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 51.39 $ 3.31 $ 24.71 $ 26.15 Cash settlements of hedges 0.52 2.16 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 51.39 $ 3.83 $ 24.71 $ 28.31 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 83.35 $ 7.73 $ 44.08 $ 52.49 Cash settlements of hedges 0.70 (0.46 ) (1.78 ) Realized price, including cash settlements $ 84.05 $ 7.27 $ 44.08 $ 50.71 Our oil, gas, and NGL derivatives include price swaps, costless collars and basis swaps. For the price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counterparty. The price collars set a floor and ceiling price. If the applicable monthly price indices are outside of the ranges set by the floor and ceiling prices in the various collars, we cash settle the difference with the counterparty. For the basis swaps, we receive a fixed differential between two index prices and pay a variable differential on the same two index prices to the contract counterparty. Cash settlements presented in the tables above represent net realized gains or losses related to these various instruments. 41 Table of Contents Additionally, to facilitate a portion of our price swaps, we have sold gas call options for 2012 and oil call options for 2011 and 2012. The call options give the counterparty the right to place us into a price swap at a predetermined fixed price. The terms of these call options are presented in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk of this report. During 2010 and 2009, we received $888 million, or $0.96 per Mcf, and $505 million, or $0.52 per Mcf, respectively, from counterparties to settle our gas derivatives. During 2008, we paid $424 million, or $0.46 per Mcf to counterparties to settle our gas derivatives and received $27 million, or $0.70 per Bbl from counterparties to settle our oil derivatives. We had no settlements on NGL derivatives in any of these periods. In addition to recognizing these cash settlement effects, we also recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our oil, gas and NGL derivative instruments in each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of these derivatives primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Based on the amount of volumes subject to our gas derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased our 2010 unrealized gains by approximately $154 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil derivative financial instruments would have increased our 2010 unrealized losses by approximately $142 million. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. Finally, the amount of production subject to oil, gas and NGL derivatives is not a variable in our cash flow calculations, but it does impact the total derivative values. Counterparty credit risk is also a component of commodity derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with thirteen separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2010, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. Including the cash settlements discussed above, our oil, gas and NGL derivatives generated net gains of $811 million and $384 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, and a net loss of $154 million during 2008. In addition to the impact of cash settlements, these net gains and losses were impacted by new positions and settlements that occurred during each period, as well as the relationships between contract prices and the associated forward curves. A summary of our outstanding oil, gas and NGL derivative positions as of December 31, 2010 is included in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this report. 42 Table of Contents Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Operating Costs and Expenses The details of the changes in marketing and midstream revenues, operating costs and expenses and the resulting operating profit are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 ($ in millions) Marketing and midstream: Revenues $ 1,867 +22 % $ 1,534 33 % $ 2,292 Operating costs and expenses 1,357 +33 % 1,022 37 % 1,611 Operating profit $ 510 0 % $ 512 25 % $ 681 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 Marketing and midstream revenues increased $333 million and operating costs and expenses increased $335 million, causing operating profit to decrease $2 million. Both revenues and expenses increased primarily due to higher natural gas and NGL prices, partially offset by the effects of lower gas marketing profits. 2009 vs. 2008 Marketing and midstream revenues decreased $758 million and operating costs and expenses decreased $589 million, causing operating profit to decrease $169 million. Both revenues and expenses decreased primarily due to lower natural gas and NGL prices, partially offset by higher NGL production and gas pipeline throughput. Lease Operating Expenses (LOE) The details of the changes in LOE are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 Lease operating expenses ($ in millions): U.S. Onshore $ 832 1 % $ 838 6 % $ 893 Canada 797 +18 % 673 13 % 776 North American Onshore 1,629 +8 % 1,511 10 % 1,669 U.S. Offshore 60 62 % 159 13 % 182 Total $ 1,689 +1 % $ 1,670 10 % $ 1,851 Lease operating expenses per Boe: U.S. Onshore $ 5.26 4 % $ 5.46 11 % $ 6.11 Canada $ 12.37 +22 % $ 10.15 20 % $ 12.74 North American Onshore $ 7.32 +7 % $ 6.87 15 % $ 8.06 U.S. Offshore $ 12.00 +0 % $ 11.98 +6 % $ 11.29 Total $ 7.42 +4 % $ 7.16 14 % $ 8.29 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 LOE increased $19 million in 2010, which included a $118 million increase related to our North America Onshore operations and a $99 million decrease related to our U.S. Offshore operations. North America Onshore LOE increased $78 million due to changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and 43 Table of Contents Canadian dollars. The remainder of the increase in North America Onshore LOE is primarily due to increased costs related to our Jackfish operation in Canada. U.S. Offshore LOE decreased primarily due to property divestitures in the second quarter of 2010. The increase due to exchange rates was also the main contributor to the changes in North America Onshore and total LOE per Boe. 2009 vs. 2008 LOE decreased $181 million in 2009. LOE dropped $182 million due to declining costs for fuel, materials, equipment and personnel, as well as declines in maintenance and well workover projects. Such declines largely resulted from decreasing demand for field services due to lower oil and gas prices. Changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar reduced LOE $49 million. Additionally, LOE decreased $31 million as a result of hurricane damages in 2008 to certain of our U.S. Offshore facilities and transportation systems. These factors, excluding the hurricane damage, were also the main contributors to the decrease in LOE per Boe on our North America Onshore properties. Production growth at our large scale Jackfish project also contributed to a decrease in LOE per Boe. As Jackfish production approached the facilitys capacity during 2009, its per unit costs declined, contributing to lower overall LOE per Boe. The remainder of our four percent company wide production growth added $81 million to LOE during 2009. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of production taxes and ad valorem taxes assessed by various government agencies on our U.S. Onshore properties. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. The following table details the changes in our taxes other than income taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 ($ in millions) Production $ 210 +59 % $ 132 57 % $ 306 Ad valorem 165 6 % 175 +8 % 162 Other 5 30 % 7 4 % 8 Total $ 380 +21 % $ 314 34 % $ 476 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 Production taxes increased $78 million in 2010. This increase was largely due to higher U.S. Onshore revenues, as well as a decrease in production tax credits associated with certain properties in the state of Texas. Ad valorem taxes decreased $10 million primarily due to lower assessed values of our U.S. Onshore oil and gas property and equipment. 2009 vs. 2008 Production taxes decreased $174 million in 2009. This decrease was largely due to lower U.S. Onshore revenues, as well as an increase in production tax credits associated with certain properties in the state of Texas. Ad valorem taxes increased $13 million primarily due to higher assessed oil and gas property and equipment values. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization of Oil and Gas Properties (DDA) DDA of oil and gas properties is calculated by multiplying the percentage of total proved reserve volumes produced during the year, by the depletable base. The depletable base represents our capitalized investment, net of accumulated DDA and reductions of carrying value, plus future development costs related to proved undeveloped reserves. Generally, when reserve volumes are revised up or down, then the DDA rate per unit of production will change inversely. However, when the depletable base changes, then the DDA rate moves in the same direction. The per unit DDA rate is not affected by production volumes. Absolute or total DDA, as opposed to the rate per unit of production, generally moves in the same direction as production volumes. Oil and gas property DDA is calculated separately on a country by country basis. 44 Table of Contents The changes in our production volumes, DDA rate per unit and DDA of oil and gas properties are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 Total production volumes (MMBoe) 228 2 % 233 +4 % 223 DDA rate ($ per Boe) $ 7.36 6 % $ 7.86 40 % $ 13.20 DDA expense ($ in millions) $ 1,675 9 % $ 1,832 38 % $ 2,948 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. The following table details the changes in DDA of oil and gas properties between 2008 and 2010 due to the changes in production volumes and DDA rate presented in the table above (in millions). 2008 DDA $ 2,948 Change due to volumes 130 Change due to rate (1,246 ) 2009 DDA 1,832 Change due to volumes (43 ) Change due to rate (114 ) 2010 DDA $ 1,675 2010 vs. 2009 Oil and gas property related DDA decreased $114 million during 2010 due to a six percent decrease in the DDA rate. The largest contributors to the rate decrease were our 2010 U.S. Offshore property divestitures and a reduction of the carrying value of our United States oil and gas properties recognized in the first quarter of 2009. This reduction totaled $6.4 billion and resulted from a full cost ceiling limitation. These decreases were partially offset by the effects of costs incurred and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2010 drilling and development activities, as well as changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars. 2009 vs. 2008 Oil and gas property related DDA decreased $1.2 billion due to a 40% decrease in the DDA rate. The largest contributors to the rate decrease were reductions of the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties recognized in the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008. These reductions totaled $16.3 billion and resulted from full cost ceiling limitations in the United States and Canada. In addition, the effects of changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars also contributed to the rate decrease. These factors were partially offset by the effects of costs incurred and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2009 drilling activities. Partially offsetting the impact from the lower 2009 DDA rate was our four percent production increase, which caused oil and gas property related DDA expense to increase $130 million. The impact of adopting the SECs new Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting rules at the end of 2009 had virtually no impact on our DDA rate. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our net GA consists of three primary components. The largest of these components is the gross amount of expenses incurred for personnel costs, office expenses, professional fees and other GA items. The gross amount of these expenses is partially offset by two components. One is the amount of GA capitalized pursuant to the full cost method of accounting related to exploration and development activities. The other is the amount of GA reimbursed by working interest owners of properties for which we serve as the operator. These reimbursements are received during both the drilling and operational stages of a propertys life. The gross amount of GA incurred, less the amounts capitalized and reimbursed, is recorded as net GA in the 45 Table of Contents consolidated statements of operations. Net GA includes expenses related to oil, gas and NGL exploration and production activities, marketing and midstream activities, as well as corporate overhead activities. See the following table for a summary of GA expenses by component. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 ($ in millions) Gross GA $ 987 11 % $ 1,107 +0 % $ 1,103 Capitalized GA (311 ) 6 % (332 ) 2 % (337 ) Reimbursed GA (113 ) 11 % (127 ) +5 % (121 ) Net GA $ 563 13 % $ 648 +0 % $ 645 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 Gross GA decreased $120 million largely due to a decline in employee severance costs. Such costs decreased primarily due to Gulf of Mexico employees that were impacted by the integration of our Gulf of Mexico and International operations into one offshore unit in the second quarter of 2009 and other employee departures during 2009. Gross GA, as well as capitalized GA, also decreased subsequent to our mid year 2010 Gulf of Mexico divestitures as a result of the decline in our workforce. The Gulf of Mexico divestitures were also the main contributor to the decrease in GA reimbursements. Gross and capitalized GA also declined due to reduced spending initiatives for certain discretionary cost categories. These decreases were partially offset by an increase due to the effects of changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars. 2009 vs. 2008 Gross GA increased $4 million. This increase was due to approximately $60 million of higher costs for employee compensation and benefits, mostly offset by the effects of our 2009 reduced spending initiatives for certain discretionary cost categories. Employee cost increases in 2009 included an additional $57 million of severance costs. This increase was primarily due to Gulf of Mexico and other employee departures during 2009. Additionally, postretirement benefit costs increased approximately $50 million. The increases in employee costs were partially offset by a $27 million decrease due to accelerated share based compensation expense recognized in 2008 resulting from a modification of certain executives compensation arrangements. The modified compensation arrangements provide that executives who meet certain years of service and age criteria can retire and continue vesting in outstanding share based grants. Although this modification does not accelerate the vesting of the executives grants, it does accelerate the expense recognition as executives approach the years of service and age criteria. Restructuring Costs The following schedule includes the components of restructuring costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Operations Operations Total Operations Operations Total (In millions) Cash severance $ (17 ) $ 1 $ (16 ) $ 66 $ 24 $ 90 Share based awards (10 ) (5 ) (15 ) 39 24 63 Lease obligations 70 70 Asset impairments 11 11 Other 3 3 Restructuring costs $ 57 $ (4 ) $ 53 $ 105 $ 48 $ 153 46 Table of Contents Employee Severance In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recognized $153 million of estimated employee severance costs associated with the planned divestiture of our offshore assets that was announced in November 2009. This amount was based on estimates of the number of employees that would ultimately be impacted by the divestitures and included amounts related to cash severance costs and accelerated vesting of share based grants. Of the $153 million total, $105 million related to our U.S. Offshore operations and the remainder related to our International discontinued operations. During 2010, we divested all of our U.S. Offshore assets and a significant part of our International assets. As a result of these divestitures and associated employee terminations, we decreased our estimate of employee severance costs in 2010 by $31 million. More offshore employees than previously estimated received comparable positions with either the purchaser of the properties or in our U.S. Onshore operations, and this caused the $31 million decrease to our severance estimate. This decrease includes $27 million related to our U.S. Offshore operations and $4 million related to our International discontinued operations. Lease Obligations As a result of the divestitures discussed above, we ceased using certain office space that was subject to non cancellable operating lease arrangements. Consequently, in 2010, we recognized $70 million of restructuring costs that represent the present value of our future obligations under the leases, net of anticipated sublease income. The estimate of lease obligations was based upon certain key estimates that could change over the term of the leases. These estimates include the estimated sublease income that we may receive over the term of the leases, as well as the amount of variable operating costs that we will be required to pay under the leases. Asset Impairments In 2010, we recognized $11 million of asset impairment charges for leasehold improvements and furniture associated with the office space we ceased using. Interest Expense The following schedule includes the components of interest expense. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Interest based on debt outstanding $ 408 $ 437 $ 426 Capitalized interest (76 ) (94 ) (111 ) Early retirement of debt 19 Other 12 6 14 Total interest expense $ 363 $ 349 $ 329 2010 vs. 2009 Interest based on debt outstanding decreased in 2010 primarily due to the retirement of $177 million of 10.125% notes upon their maturity in the fourth quarter of 2009 and the early redemption of our 7.25% senior notes as discussed below. Capitalized interest decreased during 2010 primarily due to the divestitures of our U.S. Offshore properties during the first half of 2010, which was partially offset by higher capitalized interest associated with our Canadian oil sands development projects. In the second quarter of 2010, we redeemed $350 million of 7.25% senior notes prior to their scheduled maturity of October 1, 2011. The notes were redeemed for $384 million, which represented 100 percent of the principal amount, a make whole premium of $28 million and $6 million of accrued and unpaid interest. On the date of redemption, these notes also had an unamortized premium of $9 million. The $19 million presented 47 Table of Contents in the table above represents the net of the $28 million make whole premium and $9 million amortization of the remaining premium. 2009 vs. 2008 Interest based on debt outstanding increased $11 million from 2008 to 2009. This increase was primarily due to interest paid on the $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes that we issued in January 2009. This was partially offset by lower interest resulting from the retirement of our exchangeable debentures during the third quarter of 2008 and lower interest rates on our floating rate commercial paper borrowings. Capitalized interest decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to the sales of our West African exploration and development properties in 2008 and the completion of the Access pipeline transportation system in Canada in the second quarter of 2008. Interest Rate and Other Financial Instruments The details of the changes in our interest rate and other financial instruments are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) (Gains) losses from: Interest rate swaps cash settlements $ (44 ) $ (40 ) $ (1 ) Interest rate swaps unrealized fair value changes 30 (66 ) (104 ) Chevron common stock 363 Option embedded in exchangeable debentures (109 ) Total $ (14 ) $ (106 ) $ 149 Interest Rate Swaps During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we received cash settlements totaling $44 million, $40 million and $1 million, respectively, from counterparties to settle our interest rate swaps. In addition to recognizing cash settlements, we recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. In 2010, we recorded an unrealized loss of $30 million as a result of changes in interest rates. In 2009 and 2008, we recorded unrealized gains of $66 million and $104 million, respectively, as a result of changes in interest rates. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by a third party. Based on the notional amount subject to the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased our 2010 unrealized loss for our interest rate swaps by approximately $68 million. Similar to our commodity derivative contracts, counterparty credit risk is also a component of interest rate derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with seven separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. The credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade as of December 31, 2010. 48 Table of Contents Chevron Common Stock and Related Embedded Option Until October 31, 2008, we owned 14.2 million shares of Chevron common stock and recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of this investment. On October 31, 2008, we exchanged these shares of Chevron common stock for Chevrons interest in the Drunkards Wash properties located in east central Utah and $280 million in cash. In accordance with the terms of the exchange, the fair value of our investment in the Chevron shares was estimated to be $67.71 per share on the exchange date. Prior to the exchange of these shares, we calculated the fair value of our investment in Chevron common stock using Chevrons published market price. We also recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of the conversion option embedded in the debentures exchangeable into shares of Chevron common stock. The embedded option was not actively traded in an established market. Therefore, we estimated its fair value using quotes obtained from a broker for trades occurring near the valuation date. The loss during 2008 on our investment in Chevron common stock was directly attributable to a $25.62 per share decrease in the estimated fair value while we owned Chevrons common stock during the year. The gain on the embedded option during 2008 was directly attributable to the change in fair value of the Chevron common stock from January 1, 2008 to the maturity date of August 15, 2008. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties During 2009 and 2008, we reduced the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties due to full cost ceiling limitations. A summary of these reductions and additional discussion is provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 After After Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) United States $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 6,538 $ 4,168 Canada 3,353 2,488 Total $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 9,891 $ 6,656 The 2009 reduction was recognized in the first quarter and the 2008 reductions were recognized in the fourth quarter. The reductions resulted from significant decreases in each countrys full cost ceiling compared to the immediately preceding quarter. The lower United States ceiling value in the first quarter of 2009 largely resulted from the effects of declining natural gas prices subsequent to December 31, 2008. The lower ceiling values in the fourth quarter of 2008 largely resulted from the effects of sharp declines in oil, gas and NGL prices compared to September 30, 2008. To demonstrate these declines, the March 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008 weighted average wellhead prices are presented in the following table. March 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 September 30, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Country (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) United States $ 47.30 $ 2.67 $ 17.04 $ 42.21 $ 4.68 $ 16.16 $ 97.62 $ 5.28 $ 38.00 Canada N/A N/A N/A $ 23.23 $ 5.31 $ 20.89 $ 59.72 $ 6.00 $ 62.78 N/A Not applicable. The March 31, 2009 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $49.66 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $3.63 per MMBtu for gas. The December 31, 2008 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $44.60 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $5.71 per MMBtu for gas. The September 30, 2008, wellhead prices 49 Table of Contents in the table compare to the NYMEX cash price of $100.64 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $7.12 per MMBtu for gas. Other, net The following table includes the components of other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Interest and dividend income $ (13 ) $ (8 ) $ (54 ) Deep water royalties (84 ) Hurricane insurance proceeds (162 ) Other (32 ) 24 (1 ) Total $ (45 ) $ (68 ) $ (217 ) Interest and dividend income decreased from 2008 to 2009 due to a decrease in dividends received on our previously owned investment in Chevron common stock and a decrease in interest received on cash equivalents due to lower rates and balances. In 1995, the United States Congress passed the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act. The intent of this legislation was to encourage deep water exploration in the Gulf of Mexico by providing relief from the obligation to pay royalties on certain federal leases. Deep water leases issued in certain years by the Minerals Management Service (the MMS) have contained price thresholds, such that if the market prices for oil or gas exceeded the thresholds for a given year, royalty relief would not be granted for that year. In October 2007, a federal district court ruled in favor of a plaintiff who had challenged the legality of including price thresholds in deep water leases. Additionally, in January 2009 a federal appellate court upheld this district court ruling. This judgment was later appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which, in October 2009, declined to review the appellate courts ruling. The Supreme Courts decision ended the MMSs judicial course to enforce the price thresholds. Prior to September 30, 2009, we had $84 million accrued for potential royalties on various deep water leases. Based upon the Supreme Courts decision, we reduced to zero the $84 million loss contingency accrual in the third quarter of 2009. In 2008, we recognized $162 million of excess insurance recoveries for damages suffered in 2005 related to hurricanes that struck the Gulf of Mexico. The excess recoveries resulted from business interruption claims on policies that were in effect when the 2005 hurricanes occurred. Income Taxes The following table presents our total income tax expense (benefit) and a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate to the U.S. statutory income tax rate. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Total income tax expense (benefit) (In millions) $ 1,235 $ (1,773 ) $ (1,121 ) U.S. statutory income tax rate 35 % (35 )% (35 )% Repatriations and assumed repatriations 4 % 1 % 7 % State income taxes 1 % (2 )% (1 )% Taxation on Canadian operations (1 )% (1 )% 5 % Other (4 )% (2 )% (3 )% Effective income tax expense (benefit) rate 35 % (39 )% (27 )% 50 Table of Contents During 2010 and 2009, pursuant to the completed and planned divestitures of our International assets located outside North America, a portion of our foreign earnings were no longer deemed to be permanently reinvested. Accordingly, we recognized deferred income tax expense of $144 million and $55 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to assumed repatriations of earnings from certain of our foreign subsidiaries. During 2008, we recognized $312 million of additional income tax expense that resulted from two related factors associated with our foreign operations. First, during 2008, we repatriated $2.6 billion from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Second, we made certain tax policy election changes in the second quarter of 2008 to minimize the taxes we otherwise would pay for the cash repatriations, as well as the taxable gains associated with the sales of assets in West Africa. As a result of the repatriation and tax policy election changes, we recognized $295 million of additional current tax expense and $17 million of additional deferred tax expense. Excluding the $312 million of additional tax expense, our effective income tax benefit rate would have been 34% for 2008. Earnings From Discontinued Operations For all years presented in the following tables, our discontinued operations include amounts related to our assets in Azerbaijan, Brazil, China and other minor International properties. Additionally, during 2008, our discontinued operations included amounts related to our assets in West Africa, including Equatorial Guinea, Cote dIvoire, Gabon and other countries in the region until they were sold. Following are the components of earnings from discontinued operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Total production (MMBoe) 10 16 18 Combined price without hedges (per Boe) $ 72.68 $ 59.25 $ 92.72 (In millions) Operating revenues $ 693 $ 945 $ 1,702 Expenses and other, net: Operating expenses 212 496 776 Restructuring costs (4 ) 48 Reduction of carrying value of oil and gas properties 109 494 Gain on sale of oil and gas properties (1,818 ) (17 ) (819 ) Other, net (82 ) (13 ) (7 ) Total expenses and other, net (1,692 ) 623 444 Earnings before income taxes 2,385 322 1,258 Income tax expense 168 48 367 Earnings from discontinued operations $ 2,217 $ 274 $ 891 51 Table of Contents The following table presents gains on our offshore and African divestiture transactions by year. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 After After After Gross Taxes Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) Azerbaijan $ 1,543 $ 1,524 $ $ $ $ China Panyu 308 235 Equatorial Guinea 619 544 Gabon 117 122 Cote dIvoire 17 17 83 95 Other (33 ) (27 ) 8 Total $ 1,818 $ 1,732 $ 17 $ 17 $ 819 $ 769 2010 vs. 2009 Earnings increased $1.9 billion in 2010 primarily as a result of the $1.5 billion gain ($1.5 billion after taxes) from the divestiture of our Azerbaijan operations and the $308 million gain ($235 million after taxes) from the divestiture of our Panyu operations in China. Also, earnings increased $109 million due to the 2009 reductions of carrying value of our oil and gas properties, which primarily related to Brazil. The Brazilian reduction resulted largely from an exploratory well drilled at the BM BAR 3 block in the offshore Barreirinhas Basin. After drilling this well in the first quarter of 2009, we concluded that the well did not have adequate reserves for commercial viability. As a result, the seismic, leasehold and drilling costs associated with this well contributed to the reduction recognized in the first quarter of 2009. 2009 vs. 2008 Earnings from discontinued operations decreased $617 million in 2009. Our discontinued earnings were impacted by several factors. First, operating revenues declined largely due to a 36% decrease in the price realized on our production, which was driven by a decline in crude oil index prices. Second, both operating revenues and expenses declined due to divestitures that closed in 2008. Earnings also decreased $752 million in 2009 due to larger gains recognized on West African asset divestitures in 2008. Partially offsetting these decreased earnings in 2009 was the larger reduction of carrying value recognized in 2008 compared to 2009. The reductions largely consisted of full cost ceiling limitations related to our assets in Brazil that were caused by a decline in oil prices. Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity The following discussion of capital resources, uses and liquidity should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 52 Table of Contents Sources and Uses of Cash The following table presents the sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents. The table presents capital expenditures on a cash basis. Therefore, these amounts differ from capital expenditure amounts that include accruals and are referred to elsewhere in this document. Additional discussion of these items follows the table. 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Sources of cash and cash equivalents: Operating cash flow continuing operations $ 5,022 $ 4,232 $ 8,448 Divestitures of property and equipment 4,310 34 117 Cash distributed from discontinued operations 2,864 1,898 Commercial paper borrowings 1,431 1 Debt issuance, net of commercial paper repayments 182 Redemptions of long term investments 21 7 250 Stock option exercises 111 42 116 Proceeds from exchange of Chevron stock 280 Other 16 8 59 Total sources of cash and cash equivalents 12,344 5,936 11,169 Uses of cash and cash equivalents: Capital expenditures (6,476 ) (4,879 ) (8,843 ) Commercial paper repayments (1,432 ) Debt repayments (350 ) (178 ) (1,031 ) Net credit facility repayments (1,450 ) Repurchases of common stock (1,168 ) (665 ) Redemption of preferred stock (150 ) Dividends (281 ) (284 ) (289 ) Purchases of short term investments (145 ) Other (19 ) (17 ) Total uses of cash and cash equivalents (9,871 ) (5,358 ) (12,428 ) Increase (decrease) from continuing operations 2,473 578 (1,259 ) Increase (decrease) from discontinued operations, net of distributions to continuing operations (211 ) 6 386 Effect of foreign exchange rates 17 43 (116 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 2,279 $ 627 $ (989 ) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 3,290 $ 1,011 $ 384 Short term investments at end of year $ 145 $ $ Operating Cash Flow Continuing Operations Net cash provided by operating activities (operating cash flow) continued to be a significant source of capital and liquidity in 2010. Changes in operating cash flow from our continuing operations are largely due to the same factors that affect our net earnings, with the exception of those earnings changes due to such noncash expenses as DDA, financial instrument fair value changes, property impairments and deferred income taxes. As a result, our operating cash flow increased 19% during 2010 primarily due to the increase in revenues as discussed in the Results of Operations section of this report. 53 Table of Contents During 2010, our operating cash flow funded approximately 78% of our cash payments for capital expenditures. However, our capital expenditures for 2010 included $500 million paid to form a heavy oil joint venture and acquire a 50 percent interest in the Pike oil sands in Alberta, Canada. This acquisition was completed in connection with the offshore divestitures discussed below. Excluding this $500 million acquisition, our operating cash flow funded approximately 84% of our capital expenditures during 2010. Offshore divestiture proceeds were used to fund the remainder of our cash based capital expenditures. During 2009, our operating cash flow funded approximately 87% of our cash payments for capital expenditures. Commercial paper borrowings were used to fund the remainder of our cash based capital expenditures. During 2008, our capital expenditures were primarily funded by our operating cash flow and pre existing cash balances. Other Sources of Cash Continuing and Discontinued Operations As needed, we supplement our operating cash flow and available cash by accessing available credit under our senior credit facility and commercial paper program. We may also issue long term debt to supplement our operating cash flow while maintaining adequate liquidity under our credit facilities. Additionally, we may acquire short term investments to maximize our income on available cash balances. As needed, we reduce such short term investment balances to further supplement our operating cash flow and available cash. During 2010, we divested our U.S. Offshore, Azerbaijan, China and other minor international properties, generating $6.6 billion in pre tax proceeds net of closing adjustments, or $5.6 billion after taxes. We have used proceeds from these divestitures to repay all our commercial paper borrowings, retire $350 million of other debt that was to mature in October 2011 and begin repurchasing our common shares. In addition, we began redeploying proceeds into our North America Onshore properties, including the $500 million Pike oil sands acquisition mentioned above. During 2009, we issued $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2014 and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2019. The net proceeds received of $1.187 billion, after discounts and issuance costs, were used primarily to repay Devons $1.005 billion of outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to the $1.005 billion commercial paper repayment in January 2009, we utilized additional commercial paper borrowings of $1.431 billion to fund capital expenditures in excess of our operating cash flow. During 2008, we received $2.6 billion in pre tax proceeds, or $1.9 billion after taxes and purchase price adjustments from sales of assets located in Equatorial Guinea and other West African countries. Also, in conjunction with these asset sales, we repatriated an additional $2.6 billion of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. We used these combined sources of cash in 2008 to fund debt repayments, common stock repurchases, redemptions of preferred stock and dividends on common and preferred stock. Additionally, we reduced our short term investment balances by $250 million and received $280 million from the exchange of our investment in Chevron common stock. 54 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures are presented by geographic area and type in the following table. The amounts in the table below reflect cash payments for capital expenditures, including cash paid for capital expenditures incurred in prior periods. Capital expenditures actually incurred during 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $6.9 billion, $4.7 billion and $10.0 billion, respectively. 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Onshore $ 3,689 $ 2,413 $ 5,606 Canada 1,826 1,064 1,459 North American Onshore 5,515 3,477 7,065 U.S. Offshore 376 845 1,157 Total exploration and development 5,891 4,322 8,222 Midstream 236 323 451 Other 349 234 170 Total continuing operations $ 6,476 $ 4,879 $ 8,843 Our capital expenditures consist of amounts related to our oil and gas exploration and development operations, our midstream operations and other corporate activities. The vast majority of our capital expenditures are for the acquisition, drilling and development of oil and gas properties, which totaled $5.9 billion, $4.3 billion and $8.2 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in exploration and development capital spending in 2010 was partially due to the $500 million Pike oil sands acquisition mentioned above. Additionally, with rising oil and NGL prices and proceeds from our offshore divestiture program, we are increasing drilling primarily to grow liquids production across our North America Onshore portfolio of properties. The decline in capital expenditures from 2008 to 2009 was due to decreased drilling activities in most of our operating areas in response to lower commodity prices in 2009 compared to previous years. Also, the 2008 capital expenditures include $2.6 billion related to acquisitions of properties in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Canada. Capital expenditures for our midstream operations are primarily for the construction and expansion of natural gas processing plants, natural gas gathering and pipeline systems and oil pipelines. Our midstream capital expenditures in 2010 were largely impacted by reduced U.S. Onshore dry gas drilling activities. Capital expenditures related to corporate activities increased in 2010. This increase is largely driven by the construction of our new headquarters in Oklahoma City. Net Repayments of Debt During 2010, we repaid $1.4 billion of commercial paper borrowings and redeemed $350 million of 7.25% senior notes prior to their scheduled maturity of October 1, 2011, primarily with proceeds received from our U.S. Offshore divestitures. During 2009, we repaid our $177 million 10.125% notes upon maturity in the fourth quarter. During 2008, we repaid $1.5 billion in outstanding credit facility borrowings primarily with proceeds received from the sales of assets under our African divestiture program. Also during 2008, virtually all holders of exchangeable debentures exercised their option to exchange their debentures for shares of Chevron common stock owned by us. The debentures matured on August 15, 2008. In lieu of delivering our shares of Chevron common stock, we exercised our option to pay the exchanging debenture holders cash totaling $1.0 billion. This amount included the retirement of debentures with a book value of $652 million and a $379 million payment of the related embedded derivative option. 55 Table of Contents Repurchases of Common Stock The following table summarizes our repurchases, including unsettled shares, under approved plans during 2010 and 2008 (amounts and shares in millions). 2010 2008 Repurchase Program Amount Shares Per Share Amount Shares Per Share 2010 program $ 1,201 18.3 $ 65.58 $ $ Annual program 178 2.0 $ 87.83 2007 program 487 4.5 $ 109.25 Totals $ 1,201 18.3 $ 65.58 $ 665 6.5 $ 102.56 No shares were repurchased in 2009. The 2010 program expires on December 31, 2011 and the 2008 program and annual program expired on December 31, 2009. Redemption of Preferred Stock On June 20, 2008, we redeemed all 1.5 million outstanding shares of our 6.49% Series A cumulative preferred stock. Each share of preferred stock was redeemed for cash at a redemption price of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends up to the redemption date. Dividends Devon paid common stock dividends of $281 million (or $0.64 per share) in 2010 and $284 million (or $0.64 per share) in both 2009 and 2008, respectively. Devon paid dividends of $5 million in 2008 to preferred stockholders. Devon redeemed its outstanding preferred stock in the second quarter of 2008. Liquidity Historically, our primary source of capital and liquidity has been operating cash flow. Additionally, we maintain revolving lines of credit and a commercial paper program, which can be accessed as needed to supplement operating cash flow. Other available sources of capital and liquidity include the issuance of equity and debt securities that can be issued pursuant to our automatically effective registration statement filed with the SEC. This registration statement can be used to offer short term and long term debt securities. Another major source of future liquidity will be proceeds from the sales of our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola. We estimate the combination of these sources of capital will be adequate to fund future capital expenditures, share repurchases, debt repayments and other contractual commitments as discussed later in this section. Operating Cash Flow Our operating cash flow is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is pricing of the oil, gas and NGLs produced. Due to improving oil and NGL prices, our operating cash flow increased approximately 16% to $5.5 billion in 2010 as compared to 2009. We expect operating cash flow to continue to be our primary source of liquidity. Commodity Prices Prices for oil, gas and NGLs are determined primarily by prevailing market conditions. Regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other substantially variable factors influence market conditions for these products. These factors, which are difficult to predict, create volatility in oil, gas and NGL prices and are beyond our control. We expect this volatility to continue throughout 2011. To mitigate some of the risk inherent in prices, we have utilized various price swap, fixed price physical delivery and price collar contracts to set minimum and maximum prices on our 2011 production. As of February 10, 2011, approximately 29% of our 2011 gas production is associated with financial price swaps and fixed price physicals. We also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2011 gas production. Additionally, approximately 36% of our 2011 oil production is associated with financial price 56 Table of Contents collars. We also have call options that, if exercised, would hedge an additional 16% of our 2011 oil production. Commodity prices can also affect our operating cash flow through an indirect effect on operating expenses. Significant commodity price increases can lead to an increase in drilling and development activities. As a result, the demand and cost for people, services, equipment and materials may also increase, causing a negative impact on our cash flow. However, the inverse is also true during periods of depressed commodity prices. Interest Rates Our operating cash flow can also be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. As of February 10, 2011, we had total debt of $6.2 billion with an overall weighted average borrowing rate of 6.4%. To manage our exposure to interest rate volatility, we have interest rate swap instruments with a total notional amount of $2.1 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect, based upon us paying a fixed rate and receiving a floating rate. Including the effects of these swaps, the weighted average interest rate related to our debt was 5.7% as of February 10, 2011. Credit Losses Our operating cash flow is also exposed to credit risk in a variety of ways. We are exposed to the credit risk of the customers who purchase our oil, gas and NGL production. We are also exposed to credit risk related to the collection of receivables from our joint interest partners for their proportionate share of expenditures made on projects we operate. We are also exposed to the credit risk of counterparties to our derivative financial contracts as discussed previously in this report. We utilize a variety of mechanisms to limit our exposure to the credit risks of our customers, partners and counterparties. Such mechanisms include, under certain conditions, posting of letters of credit, prepayment requirements and collateral posting requirements. Offshore Divestitures During 2010, we sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan, China and other International regions, generating $5.6 billion in after tax proceeds. Additionally, we have entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective governments to approve the divestitures. Once the pending transactions are complete, we expect to have generated more than $8 billion in after tax proceeds. Similar to 2010, we expect to continue using the divestiture proceeds to invest in North America Onshore exploration and development opportunities, reduce our debt and repurchase our common shares. Credit Availability We have a $2.65 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving line of credit (the Senior Credit Facility) that can be accessed to provide liquidity as needed. The maturity date for $2.19 billion of the Senior Credit Facility is April 7, 2013. The maturity date for the remaining $0.46 billion is April 7, 2012. All amounts outstanding will be due and payable on the respective maturity dates unless the maturity is extended. Prior to each April 7 anniversary date, we have the option to extend the maturity of the Senior Credit Facility for one year, subject to the approval of the lenders. The Senior Credit Facility includes a revolving Canadian subfacility in a maximum amount of U.S. $500 million. Amounts borrowed under the Senior Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods of up to twelve months. Such rates are generally less than the prime rate. However, we may elect to borrow at the prime rate. We also have access to short term credit under our commercial paper program. Total borrowings under the commercial paper program may not exceed $2.2 billion. Also, any borrowings under the commercial paper program reduce available capacity under the Senior Credit Facility on a dollar for dollar basis. Commercial paper debt generally has a maturity of between one and 90 days, although it can have a maturity of up to 365 days, and bears interest at rates agreed to at the time of the borrowing. The interest rate is based on a 57 Table of Contents standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. The Senior Credit Facility contains only one material financial covenant. This covenant requires us to maintain a ratio of total funded debt to total capitalization, as defined in the credit agreement, of no more than 65%. The credit agreement defines total funded debt as funds received through the issuance of debt securities such as debentures, bonds, notes payable, credit facility borrowings and short term commercial paper borrowings. In addition, total funded debt includes all obligations with respect to payments received in consideration for oil, gas and NGL production yet to be acquired or produced at the time of payment. Funded debt excludes our outstanding letters of credit and trade payables. The credit agreement defines total capitalization as the sum of funded debt and stockholders equity adjusted for noncash financial writedowns, such as full cost ceiling impairments. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with this covenant. Our debt to capitalization ratio at December 31, 2010, as calculated pursuant to the terms of the agreement, was 15.1%. Our access to funds from the Senior Credit Facility is not restricted under any material adverse effect clauses. It is not uncommon for credit agreements to include such clauses. These clauses can remove the obligation of the banks to fund the credit line if any condition or event would reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on the borrowers financial condition, operations, properties or business considered as a whole, the borrowers ability to make timely debt payments, or the enforceability of material terms of the credit agreement. While our credit facility includes covenants that require us to report a condition or event having a material adverse effect, the obligation of the banks to fund the credit facility is not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse effect. The following schedule summarizes the capacity of our Senior Credit Facility by maturity date, as well as our available capacity as of February 10, 2011 (in millions). April 7, 2012 maturity $ 463 April 7, 2013 maturity 2,187 Total Senior Credit Facility 2,650 Less: Outstanding credit facility borrowings Outstanding commercial paper borrowings 625 Outstanding letters of credit 39 Total available capacity $ 1,986 As presented in the table above, we had $625 million of commercial paper borrowings as of February 10, 2011. Although we ended 2010 with $3.4 billion of cash and short term investments, the vast majority of this amount consists of proceeds from our International offshore divestitures. For the time being, we have decided not to repatriate these proceeds to the United States or permanently invest them in Canada. This decision is based on our ongoing evaluation of our future cash needs across our operations in the United States and Canada, as well as the relatively low borrowing rates on our short term borrowings. If we do not repatriate these proceeds to the United States in the near term, we may continue to increase our commercial paper borrowings to supplement our operating cash flow in funding our common stock repurchases and capital expenditures. Debt Ratings We receive debt ratings from the major ratings agencies in the United States. In determining our debt ratings, the agencies consider a number of items including, but not limited to, debt levels, planned asset sales, near term and long term production growth opportunities and capital allocation challenges. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix, and commodity pricing levels are also considered by the rating agencies. Our current debt ratings are BBB+ with a stable outlook by both Fitch and Standard Poors, and Baa1 with a stable outlook by Moodys. 58 Table of Contents There are no rating triggers in any of our contractual obligations that would accelerate scheduled maturities should our debt rating fall below a specified level. Our cost of borrowing under our Senior Credit Facility is predicated on our corporate debt rating. Therefore, even though a ratings downgrade would not accelerate scheduled maturities, it would adversely impact the interest rate on any borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. Under the terms of the Senior Credit Facility, a one notch downgrade would increase the fully drawn borrowing costs from LIBOR plus 35 basis points to a new rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points. A ratings downgrade could also adversely impact our ability to economically access debt markets in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we were not aware of any potential ratings downgrades being contemplated by the rating agencies. Capital Expenditures Our 2011 capital expenditures are expected to range from $5.4 billion to $6.0 billion. To a certain degree, the ultimate timing of these capital expenditures is within our control. Therefore, if commodity prices fluctuate from current estimates, we could choose to defer a portion of these planned 2011 capital expenditures until later periods, or accelerate capital expenditures planned for periods beyond 2011 to achieve the desired balance between sources and uses of liquidity. Based upon current price expectations for 2011, our existing commodity hedging contracts, available cash balances and credit availability, we anticipate having adequate capital resources to fund our 2011 capital expenditures. Common Stock Repurchase Program As a result of the success we have experienced with our offshore divestiture program, we announced a share repurchase program in May 2010. The program authorizes the repurchase of up to $3.5 billion of our common shares and expires December 31, 2011. As of February 10, 2011, we had repurchased $1.6 billion, or 23.5 million of our shares at an average price of $69.60. We will continue to use proceeds from our offshore divestiture program in 2011 to fund our repurchase program. Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010, is provided in the following table. Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) North American Onshore: Purchase obligations(1) $ 7,710 $ 551 $ 1,471 $ 1,568 $ 4,120 Debt(2) 5,628 1,812 9 582 3,225 Interest expense(3) 4,645 392 544 502 3,207 Drilling and facility obligations(4) 1,163 747 410 6 Firm transportation agreements(5) 1,734 282 487 408 557 Asset retirement obligations(6) 1,497 74 102 110 1,211 Lease obligations(7) 489 58 104 77 250 Other(8) 389 59 141 156 33 Total North America Onshore 23,255 3,975 3,268 3,409 12,603 Offshore: Drilling and facility obligations(4) 595 314 281 Asset retirement obligations(6) 24 24 Lease obligations(7) 111 38 58 15 Total Offshore 730 352 339 39 Grand Total $ 23,985 $ 4,327 $ 3,607 $ 3,448 $ 12,603 59 Table of Contents (1) Purchase obligation amounts represent contractual commitments to purchase condensate at market prices for use at our heavy oil projects in Canada. We have entered into these agreements because the condensate is an integral part of the heavy oil production process and any disruption in our ability to obtain condensate could negatively affect our ability to produce and transport heavy oil at these locations. Our total obligation related to condensate purchases expires in 2021. This value of the obligation in the table above is based on the contractual volumes and our internal estimate of future condensate market prices. (2) Debt amounts represent scheduled maturities of our debt obligations at December 31, 2010, excluding $2 million of net premiums included in the carrying value of debt. (3) Interest expense relates to our fixed rate debt and represents the scheduled cash payments. We had no variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2010. (4) Drilling and facility obligations represent contractual agreements with third party service providers to procure drilling rigs and other related services for developmental and exploratory drilling and facilities construction. Our offshore commitment primarily relates to a long term contract for a deepwater drilling rig being used in Brazil. Our lease and remaining commitments for this rig will be assumed by the buyer of our assets in Brazil when the associated divestiture transaction closes. (5) Firm transportation agreements represent ship or pay arrangements whereby we have committed to ship certain volumes of oil, gas and NGLs for a fixed transportation fee. We have entered into these agreements to aid the movement of our production to market. We expect to have sufficient production to utilize these transportation services. (6) Asset retirement obligations represent estimated discounted costs for future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation costs. These obligations are recorded as liabilities on our December 31, 2010 balance sheet. (7) Lease obligations for our North America onshore operations consist primarily of non cancelable leases for office space and equipment used in our daily operations. Lease obligations for our offshore operations consist primarily of an FPSO in Brazil. The Polvo FPSO lease term expires in 2014. Our lease and remaining commitments for this FPSO will be assumed by the buyer of our assets in Brazil when the associated divestiture transaction closes. (8) These amounts include $193 million related to uncertain tax positions. Expected pension funding obligations have not been included in this table, but are presented and discussed in the section immediately below. Pension Funding and Estimates Funded Status As compared to the projected benefit obligation, our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $492 million and $448 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A detailed reconciliation of the 2010 changes to our underfunded status is in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Of the $492 million underfunded status at the end of 2010, $198 million is attributable to various nonqualified defined benefit plans that have no plan assets. However, we have established certain trusts to fund the benefit obligations of such nonqualified plans. As of December 31, 2010, these trusts had investments with a fair value of $36 million. The value of these trusts is in noncurrent other assets in our consolidated balance sheets included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. As compared to the accumulated benefit obligation, our qualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $218 million at December 31, 2010. The accumulated benefit obligation differs from the projected benefit obligation in that the former includes no assumption about future compensation levels. Our funding policy regarding the qualified defined benefit plans is to contribute the amounts necessary for the plans assets to approximately equal the present value of benefits earned by the participants, as calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Protection Act. While we did have investment gains in 2010 and 2009, the investment losses experienced during 2008 significantly reduced the value of our 60 Table of Contents plans assets. We estimate we will contribute approximately $84 million to our qualified pension plans during 2011. However, actual contributions may be different than this amount. Our funding policy regarding the nonqualified defined benefit plans is to supplement as needed the amounts accumulated in the related trusts with available cash and cash equivalents. Pension Estimate Assumptions Our pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods and is impacted by funding decisions or requirements. We recognized expense for our defined benefit pension plans of $85 million, $119 million and $61 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We estimate that our pension expense will approximate $91 million in 2011. Should our actual 2011 contributions to qualified and nonqualified plans vary significantly from our current estimate of $93 million, our actual 2011 pension expense could vary from this estimate. The calculation of pension expense and pension liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and actual experience can differ from the assumptions. We believe that the two most critical assumptions affecting pension expense and liabilities are the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. We assumed that our plan assets would generate a long term weighted average rate of return of 6.94% and 7.18% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We developed these expected long term rate of return assumptions by evaluating input from external consultants and economists as well as long term inflation assumptions. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets is based on a target allocation of investment types in such assets. At December 31, 2010, the target allocations for plan assets were 47.5% for equity securities, 40% for fixed income securities and 12.5% for other investment types. Equity securities consist of investments in large capitalization and small capitalization companies, both domestic and international. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of investment grade companies from diverse industries, United States Treasury obligations and asset backed securities. Other investment types include short term investment funds and a hedge fund of funds. We expect our long term asset allocation on average to approximate the targeted allocation. We regularly review our actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance the investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on plan assets decreases. A decrease in our long term rate of return assumption of 100 basis points would increase the expected 2011 pension expense by $6 million. We discounted our future pension obligations using a weighted average rate of 5.50% and 6.00% at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The discount rate is determined at the end of each year based on the rate at which obligations could be effectively settled, considering the expected timing of future cash flows related to the plans. This rate is based on high quality bond yields, after allowing for call and default risk. High quality corporate bond yield indices are considered when selecting the discount rate. The pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 25 basis points would increase our pension liability at December 31, 2010, by $37 million, and increase estimated 2011 pension expense by $5 million. At December 31, 2010, we had net actuarial losses of $357 million, which will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years. These losses are primarily due to investment losses on plan assets in 2008, reductions in the discount rate since 2001 and increases in participant wages. We estimate that approximately $32 million and $26 million of the unrecognized actuarial losses will be included in pension expense in 2011 and 2012, respectively. The $32 million estimated to be recognized in 2011 is a component of the total estimated 2011 pension expense of $91 million referred to earlier in this section. Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our defined benefit pension plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. 61 Table of Contents Contingencies and Legal Matters For a detailed discussion of contingencies and legal matters, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from these estimates, and changes in these estimates are recorded when known. The critical accounting policies used by management in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. Our critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates related to those policies are described below. We have reviewed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Full Cost Method of Accounting and Proved Reserves Policy Description We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. Under this method all costs associated with property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized, including our internal costs that can be directly identified with such activities. Capitalized costs are depleted on an equivalent unit of production method, converting gas to oil at the ratio of six thousand cubic feet of gas to one barrel of oil. Depletion is calculated using the capitalized costs, including estimated asset retirement costs, plus the estimated future expenditures to be incurred in developing proved reserves, net of estimated salvage values. Costs associated with unproved properties are excluded from the depletion calculation until it is determined whether or not proved reserves can be assigned to such properties. The full cost method subjects companies to quarterly calculations of a ceiling, or limitation on the amount of properties that can be capitalized on the balance sheet. The ceiling limitation is the discounted estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, excluding future cash outflows associated with settling asset retirement obligations included in the net book value of oil and gas properties, plus the cost of properties not subject to amortization. If our net book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes, is in excess of the calculated ceiling, the excess must be written off as an expense. The ceiling limitation is imposed separately for each country in which we have oil and gas properties. An expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher oil and gas prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. Judgments and Assumptions Our estimates of proved reserves are a major component of the depletion and full cost ceiling calculations. Additionally, our proved reserves represent the element of these calculations that require the most subjective judgments. Estimates of reserves are forecasts based on engineering data, projected future rates of production and the timing of future expenditures. The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves requires substantial judgment, resulting in imprecise determinations, particularly for new discoveries. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities based on the same data. Certain of our reserve estimates are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants, while other reserve estimates are prepared by our engineers. See Note 22 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of the amount of our reserves that are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants. The passage of time provides more qualitative information regarding estimates of reserves, when revisions are made to prior estimates to reflect updated information. In the past five years, annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates, which have been both increases and decreases in individual years, have averaged less 62 Table of Contents than 2% of the previous years estimate. However, there can be no assurance that more significant revisions will not be necessary in the future. The data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. While the quantities of proved reserves require substantial judgment, the associated prices of oil, gas and NGL reserves, and the applicable discount rate, that are used to calculate the discounted present value of the reserves do not require judgment. The ceiling calculation dictates that a 10% discount factor be used and future net revenues are calculated using prices that represent the average of the first day of the month price for the 12 month period prior to the end of each quarterly period. Therefore, the future net revenues associated with the estimated proved reserves are not based on our assessment of future prices or costs. In calculating the ceiling, we adjust the end of period price by the effect of derivative contracts in place that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. This adjustment requires little judgment as the calculated average price is adjusted using the contract prices for such hedges. None of our outstanding derivative contracts at December 31, 2010 qualified for hedge accounting treatment. Because the ceiling calculation dictates the use of prices that are not representative of future prices and requires a 10% discount factor, the resulting value is not indicative of the true fair value of the reserves. Oil and gas prices have historically been cyclical and, for any particular 12 month period, can be either higher or lower than our long term price forecast, which is a more appropriate input for estimating fair value. Therefore, oil and gas property writedowns that result from applying the full cost ceiling limitation, and that are caused by fluctuations in price as opposed to reductions to the underlying quantities of reserves, should not be viewed as absolute indicators of a reduction of the ultimate value of the related reserves. Because of the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict the timing or magnitude of full cost writedowns. In addition, due to the inter relationship of the various judgments made to estimate proved reserves, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates. However, decreases in estimates of proved reserves would generally increase our depletion rate and, thus, our depletion expense. Decreases in our proved reserves may also increase the likelihood of recognizing a full cost ceiling writedown. Derivative Financial Instruments Policy Description We periodically enter into derivative financial instruments with respect to a portion of our oil, gas and NGL production that hedge the future prices received. These instruments are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to commodity price volatility. Our commodity derivative financial instruments include financial price swaps, basis swaps, costless price collars and call options. Additionally, we periodically enter into interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. Under the terms of certain of our interest rate swaps, we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate on a total notional amount. The remainder of our swaps represent forward starting swaps, under which we will pay a fixed rate and receive a floating rate on a total notional amount. All derivative financial instruments are recognized at their current fair value as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments are recorded in the statement of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. For derivative financial instruments held during 2010, 2009 and 2008, we chose not to meet the necessary criteria to qualify our derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting treatment. Cash settlements with counterparties to our derivative financial instruments also increase or decrease earnings at the time of the settlement. Judgments and Assumptions The estimates of the fair values of our derivative instruments require substantial judgment. We estimate the fair values of our commodity derivative financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future 63 Table of Contents commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted primarily using United States Treasury bill rates. These pricing and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward prices and regional price differentials. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by third parties. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted using the LIBOR and money market futures rates. These yield and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties and or brokers. In spite of the recent turmoil in the financial markets, counterparty credit risk has not had a significant effect on our cash flow calculations and derivative valuations. This is primarily the result of two factors. First, we have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with numerous counterparties. Our commodity derivative contracts are held with thirteen separate counterparties, and our interest rate derivative contracts are held with seven separate counterparties. Second, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold for collateral posting decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2010, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. Because we have chosen not to qualify our derivatives for hedge accounting treatment, changes in the fair values of derivatives can have a significant impact on our results of operations. Generally, changes in derivative fair values will not impact our liquidity or capital resources. Settlements of derivative instruments, regardless of whether they qualify for hedge accounting, do have an impact on our liquidity and results of operations. Generally, if actual market prices are higher than the price of the derivative instruments, our net earnings and cash flow from operations will be lower relative to the results that would have occurred absent these instruments. The opposite is also true. Additional information regarding the effects that changes in market prices can have on our derivative financial instruments, net earnings and cash flow from operations is included in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Goodwill Policy Description Accounting for the acquisition of a business requires the allocation of the purchase price to the tangible and intangible net assets acquired with any excess recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to assigned reporting units. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated and compared to the net book value of the reporting unit. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the net book value, including goodwill, then the goodwill is written down to the implied fair value of the goodwill through a charge to expense. Judgments and Assumptions The annual impairment test, which we conduct as of October 31 each year, requires us to estimate the fair values of our own assets and liabilities. Because quoted market prices are not available for our reporting 64 Table of Contents units, we must estimate the fair values to conduct the goodwill impairment test. The most significant judgments involved in estimating the fair values of our reporting units relate to the valuation of our property and equipment. We develop estimated fair values of our property and equipment by performing various quantitative analyses based upon information related to comparable companies, comparable transactions and premiums paid. In our comparable companies analysis, we review the public stock market trading multiples for selected publicly traded independent exploration and production companies with financial and operating characteristics that are comparable to our respective reporting units. Such characteristics are market capitalization, location of proved reserves and the characterization of the reserves. In our comparable transactions analysis, we review certain acquisition multiples for selected independent exploration and production company transactions and oil and gas asset packages announced recently. In our premiums paid analysis, we use a sample of selected independent exploration and production company transactions in addition to selected transactions of all publicly traded companies announced recently, to review the premiums paid to the price of the target one day and one month prior to the announcement of the transaction. We use this information to determine the mean and median premiums paid. We then use the comparable company multiples, comparable transaction multiples, transaction premiums and other data to develop valuation estimates of our property and equipment. We also use market and other data to develop valuation estimates of the other assets and liabilities included in our reporting units. At October 31, 2010, the date of our last impairment test, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units substantially exceeded their related carrying values. A lower goodwill value decreases the likelihood of an impairment charge. However, unfavorable changes in reserves or in our price forecast would increase the likelihood of a goodwill impairment charge. A goodwill impairment charge would have no effect on liquidity or capital resources. However, it would adversely affect our results of operations in that period. Due to the inter relationship of the various estimates involved in assessing goodwill for impairment, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates, other than to note the historical average changes in our reserve estimates previously set forth. Income Taxes Policy Description We are required to estimate federal, state, provincial and foreign income taxes for each jurisdiction in which we operate. This process involves estimating the actual current tax exposure together with assessing future tax consequences resulting in deferred income taxes. We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for the future tax benefits attributable to the expected utilization of existing tax net operating loss carryforwards and other types of carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Judgments and Assumptions The amount of income taxes recorded requires interpretations of complex rules and regulations of federal, state, provincial and foreign tax jurisdictions. We recognize current tax expense based on estimated taxable income for the current period applied at the applicable statutory tax rates. We routinely assess potential uncertain tax positions and, if required, estimate and establish accruals for such amounts. We have recognized deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences, operating losses and other tax carryforwards. We routinely assess our deferred tax assets and reduce such assets by a valuation allowance if we deem it is more 65 Table of Contents likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The accruals for deferred tax assets and liabilities are subject to a significant amount of judgment by management and are reviewed and adjusted routinely based on changes in facts and circumstances. Material changes in these accruals may occur in the future, based on the progress of ongoing tax audits, changes in legislation and resolution of pending tax matters. Forward Looking Estimates We are providing our 2011 forward looking estimates in this section. These estimates were based on our examination of historical operating trends, the information used to prepare our December 31, 2010, reserve reports and other data in our possession or available from third parties. The forward looking estimates in this report were prepared assuming demand, curtailment, producibility and general market conditions for our oil, gas and NGLs during 2011 will be similar to 2010, unless otherwise noted. We make reference to the Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this report. Amounts related to our Canadian operations have been converted to U.S. dollars using an estimated average 2011 exchange rate of $0.95 dollar to $1.00 Canadian dollar. During 2011, our operations are substantially comprised of our ongoing North America Onshore operations. We also have International operations in Brazil and Angola that we are divesting. We have entered into agreements to sell our assets in Brazil for $3.2 billion and our assets in Angola for $70 million, plus contingent consideration. As a result of these divestitures, all revenues, expenses and capital related to our International operations are reported as discontinued operations in our financial statements. Additionally, all forward looking estimates in this document exclude amounts related to our International operations, unless otherwise noted. North America Onshore Operating Items The following 2011 estimates relate only to our North America Onshore assets. Oil, Gas and NGL Production Set forth below are our estimates of oil, gas and NGL production for 2011. We estimate that our combined oil, gas and NGL production will total approximately 236 to 240 MMBoe. Oil Gas NGLs Total (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) U.S. Onshore 17 736 34 174 Canada 28 199 3 64 North America Onshore 45 935 37 238 Oil and Gas Prices We expect our 2011 average prices for the oil and gas production from each of our operating areas to differ from the NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The expected ranges for prices are exclusive of the anticipated effects of the financial contracts presented in the Commodity Price Risk Management section below. The NYMEX price for oil is determined using the monthly average of settled prices on each trading day for benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude oil delivered at Cushing, Oklahoma. The NYMEX price for gas is determined using the first of month South Louisiana Henry Hub price index as published monthly in Inside FERC. 66 Table of Contents Expected Range of Prices as a % of NYMEX Price Oil Gas U.S. Onshore 89% to 99% 80% to 90% Canada 63% to 73% 82% to 92% North America Onshore 73% to 83% 80% to 90% Commodity Price Risk Management From time to time, we enter into NYMEX related financial commodity collar and price swap contracts. Such contracts are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil, gas and NGL price volatility. Although these financial contracts do not relate to specific production from our operating areas, they will affect our overall revenues, earnings and cash flow in 2011. As of February 10, 2011, our financial commodity contracts pertaining to 2011 consisted of oil price collars, oil call options, gas price swaps, gas basis swaps and NGL basis swaps. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 730,226 $ 5.49 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 Panhandle Eastern Pipeline 150,000 $ 0.33 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 45,000 $ 75.00 $75.00 $ 75.00 $ 105.00 $116.10 $ 108.89 Oil Call Options Sold Weighted Volume Average Price Period (Bbls /d) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 19,500 $ 95.00 NGL Basis Swaps Pay Natural Receive Volume Gasoline Oil Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 500 $ 70.77 $ 80.52 To the extent that monthly NYMEX prices in 2011 are outside of the ranges established by the collars or differ from those established by the swaps, we and the counterparties to the contracts will cash settle the difference. Such settlements will either increase or decrease our revenues for the period. Also, we will mark to market the contracts based on their fair values throughout 2011. Changes in the contracts fair values will also be recorded as increases or decreases to our revenues. The expected ranges of our realized prices as a percentage of NYMEX prices, which are presented earlier in this report, do not include any estimates of the impact on our prices from monthly settlements or changes in the fair values of our price collars and swaps. 67 Table of Contents Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Expenses Marketing and midstream revenues and expenses are derived primarily from our gas processing plants and gas pipeline systems. These revenues and expenses vary in response to several factors. The factors include, but are not limited to, changes in production and NGL content from wells connected to the pipelines and related processing plants, changes in the absolute and relative prices of gas and NGLs, provisions of contractual agreements and the amount of repair and maintenance activity required to maintain anticipated processing levels and pipeline throughput volumes. These factors increase the uncertainty inherent in estimating future marketing and midstream revenues and expenses. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our 2011 marketing and midstream operating profit will be between $485 million and $535 million. We estimate that marketing and midstream revenues will be between $1.485 billion and $1.760 billion, and marketing and midstream expenses will be between $1.000 billion and $1.225 billion. Production and Operating Expenses These expenses, which include transportation costs, vary in response to several factors. Among the most significant of these factors are additions to or deletions from the property base, changes in the general price level of services and materials that are used in the operation of the properties, as well as the amount of repair and workover activity required. Additionally, lease operating expenses associated with oil production, particularly heavy oil production, are generally higher than operating expenses associated with gas and NGL production. Oil, gas and NGL prices also have an effect on lease operating expenses and impact the economic feasibility of planned workover projects. Given these uncertainties, we expect that our 2011 lease operating expenses will be between $1.78 billion and $1.88 billion. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Our taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes that relate to our U.S. Onshore properties and are assessed by various government agencies. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. Over time, a certain propertys assessed value will increase or decrease due to changes in commodity sales prices, production volumes and proved reserves. Therefore, ad valorem taxes will generally move in the same direction as our oil, gas and NGL sales but in a less predictable manner compared to production taxes. Additionally, both production and ad valorem taxes will increase or decrease due to changes in the rates assessed by the government agencies. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our taxes other than income taxes for 2011 will be between 5.20% and 6.20% of total oil, gas and NGL sales. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DDA) Our 2011 oil and gas property DDA rate will depend on various factors. Most notable among such factors are the amount of proved reserves that will be added from drilling or acquisition efforts in 2011 compared to the costs incurred for such efforts, revisions to our year end 2010 reserve estimates that, based on prior experience, are likely to be made during 2011, as well as potential carrying value reductions that result from full cost ceiling tests. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our oil and gas property related DDA rate will be between $7.40 per Boe and $8.00 per Boe. Based on these DDA rates and the production estimates set forth earlier, oil and gas property related DDA expense for 2010 is expected to be between $1.76 billion and $1.90 billion. 68 Table of Contents Additionally, we expect that our depreciation and amortization expense related to non oil and gas fixed assets will total between $265 million and $295 million in 2011. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligation Accretion of asset retirement obligation in 2011 is expected to be between $85 million and $95 million. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our GA includes employee compensation and benefits costs and the costs of many different goods and services used in support of our business. GA varies with the level of our operating activities and the related staffing and professional services requirements. In addition, employee compensation and benefits costs vary due to various market factors that affect the level and type of compensation and benefits offered to employees. Also, goods and services are subject to general price level increases or decreases. Therefore, significant variances in any of these factors from current expectations could cause actual GA to vary materially from the estimate. Given these limitations, we estimate our GA for 2011 will be between $590 million and $630 million. This estimate includes approximately $110 million of non cash, share based compensation, net of related capitalization in accordance with the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Interest Expense Future interest rates and debt outstanding have a significant effect on our interest expense. We can only marginally influence the prices we will receive in 2011 from sales of oil, gas and NGLs and the resulting cash flow. This increases the margin of error inherent in estimating future outstanding debt balances and related interest expense. Other factors that affect outstanding debt balances and related interest expense, such as the amount and timing of capital expenditures, are generally within our control. As of December 31, 2010, we had total debt of $5.6 billion, which is exclusively fixed rate debt at an overall weighted average rate of 7.1%. Our debt includes $1.75 billion that is scheduled to mature on September 30, 2011. We also have access to the commercial paper market and our credit lines. Any commercial paper or credit line borrowings would bear interest at variable rates. Based on the factors above, we expect our 2011 interest expense to be between $300 million and $340 million. The estimated interest expense is exclusive of the anticipated effects of the interest rate swap contracts presented in the Interest Rate Risk Management section below. The 2011 interest expense estimate above is comprised of three primary components interest related to outstanding debt, fees and issuance costs and capitalized interest. We expect interest expense in 2011 related to our outstanding debt, including net accretion of related discounts, to be between $380 million and $420 million. We expect interest expense in 2011 related to facility and agency fees, amortization of debt issuance costs and other miscellaneous items not related to outstanding debt balances to be between $5 million and $15 million. During 2011, we also expect to capitalize between $85 million and $95 million of interest, of which $45 to $55 million relates to our continuing oil and gas activities and the remainder relates to certain corporate construction projects and our discontinued operations. Interest Rate Risk Management From time to time, we enter into interest rate swaps. Such contracts are used to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. As of December 31, 2010, our interest rate swaps pertaining to 2011 consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $2.10 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate 69 Table of Contents of 3.92% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 950 3.92 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 Income Taxes Our financial income tax rate in 2011 will vary materially depending on the actual amount of financial pre tax earnings. The tax rate for 2011 will be significantly affected by the proportional share of consolidated pre tax earnings generated by our United States and Canadian operations due to the different tax rates of each country. Also, certain tax deductions and credits will have a fixed impact on 2011 income tax expense regardless of the level of pre tax earnings that are produced. Additionally, significant changes in estimated capital expenditures, production levels of oil, gas and NGLs, the prices of such products, marketing and midstream revenues, or any of the various expense items could materially alter the effect of these tax deductions and credits on 2011 financial income tax rates. Given the uncertainty of pre tax earnings, we expect that our total financial income tax rate in 2011 will be between 20% and 40%. The current income tax rate is expected to be between 0% and 10%. The deferred income tax rate is expected to be between 20% and 30%. Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity North America Onshore Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures budget is based on an expected range of future oil, gas and NGL prices as well as the expected costs of the capital additions. Should actual prices received differ materially from our price expectations for our future production, some projects may be accelerated or deferred and, consequently, may increase or decrease total 2011 capital expenditures. In addition, if the actual material or labor costs of the budgeted items vary significantly from the anticipated amounts, actual capital expenditures could vary materially from our estimates. Given the limitations discussed above, we estimate that our 2011 oil and gas development and exploration capital expenditures will be between $4.500 billion and $4.900 billion. We estimate that our development capital will be between $3.875 billion and $4.175 billion. Development capital includes activity related to reserves classified as proved and drilling that does not offset currently productive units and for which there is not a certainty of continued production from a known productive formation. Development capital also includes estimates for plugging and abandonment charges. We estimate that our exploration capital will be between $625 million and $725 million. Exploration capital includes exploratory drilling to find and produce oil or gas in previously untested fault blocks or new reservoirs. Exploration capital also includes purchases of proved and unproved leasehold acreage. In addition to the development and exploration expenditures, we expect to 70 Table of Contents capitalize between $330 million and $350 million of GA expenses and between $45 million and $55 million of interest related to our oil and gas activities. In addition, we expect to spend between $225 million and $300 million on our midstream assets, which primarily include our oil pipelines, gas processing plants, and gas gathering and pipeline systems. We also expect total capital for corporate activities will be between $300 million and $395 million, including approximately $30 million of capitalized interest related to certain construction projects. Other Cash Uses In May 2010, our Board of Directors approved a $3.5 billion share repurchase program. This program expires on December 31, 2011. Through February 10, 2011, we had repurchased 23.5 million common shares for $1.6 billion, or $69.60 per share. Our management expects the policy of paying a quarterly common stock dividend to continue. With the current $0.16 per share quarterly dividend rate and expected share repurchases, 2011 dividends are expected to approximate $264 million. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our estimated 2011 cash uses, including our capital activities, are expected to be funded primarily through a combination of our existing cash balances and operating cash flow, supplemented with commercial paper borrowings. At the beginning of 2011, we held $3.4 billion in cash and short term investments. The amount of operating cash flow to be generated during 2011 is uncertain due to the factors affecting revenues and expenses as previously cited. However, if our operating cash flow were significantly less than our estimates, we would access the commercial paper market. Also, we have credit lines that we could access if deemed necessary. As of February 10, 2011, we had $2.0 billion of available credit under our credit lines. Another major source of liquidity in 2011 will be the proceeds from the divestiture of our assets in Brazil and, to a lesser extent, the divestiture of our assets in Angola. These sources of liquidity will allow us to continue repurchasing common shares and investing in the opportunities that exist across our North America Onshore portfolio of properties. We expect our combined capital resources to be adequate to fund our anticipated capital expenditures and other cash uses for 2011. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to our risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The following disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than speculative trading. Commodity Price Risk Our major market risk exposure is in the pricing applicable to our oil, gas and NGL production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to our U.S. and Canadian gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil, gas and NGL production has been volatile and unpredictable for several years. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Consequently, we periodically enter into financial hedging activities with respect to a portion of our oil, gas and NGL production through various financial transactions that hedge the future prices received. These transactions include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Additionally, to facilitate a portion of our price swaps, we have sold gas 71 Table of Contents call options for 2012 and oil call options for 2011 and 2012. The key terms of our derivatives in place as of December 31, 2010 are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 712,500 $ 5.51 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 Panhandle Eastern Pipeline 150,000 $ 0.33 Gas Call Options Sold Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2012 487,500 $ 6.00 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 45,000 $ 75.00 $75.00 $ 75.00 $ 105.00 $116.10 $ 108.89 Oil Call Options Sold Weighted Volume Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 19,500 $ 95.00 Total year 2012 19,500 $ 95.00 NGL Basis Swaps Pay Natural Receive Volume Gasoline Oil Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 500 $ 70.77 $ 80.52 Total year 2012 500 $ 71.82 $ 81.92 The fair values of our commodity derivatives presented in the tables above are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the relevant price indices. At December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our gas derivative instruments would have decreased the fair value of such instruments by approximately $154 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil derivative instruments would have decreased the fair value of these instruments by approximately $142 million. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2010, we had debt outstanding of $5.6 billion with fixed rates averaging 7.1%. As of December 31, 2010, our interest rate swaps consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $2.1 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we 72 Table of Contents elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate of 3.92% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 950 3.92 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 The fair values of our interest rate instruments are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the Federal Funds rate and LIBOR. At December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased the fair value of our interest rate swaps by approximately $68 million. Foreign Currency Risk Our net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our Canadian subsidiaries are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the Canadian dollar functional currency. Assets and liabilities of the Canadian subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of a reporting period. Revenues, expenses and cash flow are translated using the average exchange rate during the reporting period. A 10% unfavorable change in the Canadian to U.S. dollar exchange rate would not materially impact our December 31, 2010 balance sheet. 73 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The following discussion and analysis presents managements perspective of our business, financial condition and overall performance. This information is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our past performance, current financial condition and outlook for the future and should be reviewed in conjunction with our Selected Financial Data and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our discussion and analysis relates to the following subjects: Overview of Business Overview of 2010 Results Business and Industry Outlook Results of Operations Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity Contingencies and Legal Matters Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Forward Looking Estimates Overview of Business Devon is one of North Americas leading independent oil and gas exploration and production companies. Our operations are focused in the United States and Canada. We also own natural gas pipelines and treatment facilities in many of our producing areas, making us one of North Americas larger processors of natural gas liquids. As an enterprise, we strive to optimize value for our shareholders by growing cash flows, earnings, production and reserves, all on a per debt adjusted share basis. We accomplish this by replenishing our reserves and production and managing other key operational elements that drive our success. These items are discussed more fully below. Reserves and production growth Our financial condition and profitability are significantly affected by the amount of proved reserves we own. Oil and gas properties are our most significant assets, and the reserves that relate to such properties are key to our future success. To increase our proved reserves, we must replace quantities produced with additional reserves from successful exploration and development activities or property acquisitions. Additionally, our profitability and operating cash flows are largely dependent on the amount of oil, gas and NGLs we produce. Growing production from existing properties is difficult because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. As a result, we constantly drill for and develop reserves on properties that provide a balance of near term and long term production. In addition, we may acquire properties with proved reserves that we can develop and subsequently produce to help create value. Capital investment discipline Effectively deploying our resources into capital projects is key to maintaining and growing future production and oil and gas reserves. As a result, we have historically deployed virtually all our available cash flow into capital projects. Therefore, maintaining a disciplined approach to investing in capital projects is important to our profitability and financial condition. Our ability to control capital expenditures can be affected by changes in commodity prices. During times of high commodity prices, drilling and related costs often escalate due to the effects of supply versus demand economics. The inverse is also true. High return projects We seek to invest our capital resources into projects where we can generate the highest risk adjusted investment returns. One factor that can have a significant impact on such returns is our drilling success. Combined with appropriate revenue and cost management strategies, 34 Table of Contents high drilling success rates are important to generating competitive returns on our capital investment. During 2010, we drilled 1,588 gross wells and 99% of those were successful. This success rate is similar to our drilling achievements in recent years, demonstrating a proven track record of success. By accomplishing high drilling success rates, we provide an inventory of reserves growth and a platform of opportunities on our undrilled acreage that can be profitably developed. Reserves and production balance As evidenced by history, commodity prices are inherently volatile. In addition, oil and gas prices often diverge due to a variety of circumstances. Consequently, we value a balance of reserves and production between gas and liquids that can add stability to our revenue stream when either commodity price is under pressure. Our production mix in 2010 was approximately 68% gas and 32% oil and NGLs such as propane, butane and ethane. Our year end reserves were approximately 60% gas and 40% liquids. With planned future growth in oil from Jackfish, Pike and other projects, combined with an inventory of shale natural gas plays, we expect to maintain this balance in the future. Operating cost controls To maintain our competitive position, we must control our lease operating costs and other production costs. As reservoirs are depleted and production rates decline, per unit production costs will generally increase and affect our profitability and operating cash flows. Similar to capital expenditures, our ability to control operating costs can be affected by significant changes in commodity prices. Our base production is focused in core areas of our operations where we can achieve economies of scale to help manage our operating costs. Marketing and midstream performance improvement We enhance the value of our oil and gas operations with our marketing and midstream business. By efficiently gathering and processing oil, gas and NGL production, our midstream operations enhance our project returns and contribute to our strategies to grow reserves and production and manage expenditures. Additionally, by effectively marketing our production, we maximize the prices received for our oil, gas and NGL production in relation to market prices. This is important because our profitability is highly dependent on market prices. These prices are determined primarily by market conditions. Market conditions for these products have been, and will continue to be, influenced by regional and worldwide economic and political conditions, weather, supply disruptions and other local market conditions that are beyond our control. To manage this volatility, we utilize financial hedging arrangements. As of February 10, 2011, approximately 29% of our 2011 gas production is associated with financial price swaps and fixed price physicals. We also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2011 gas production. Additionally, approximately 36% of our 2011 oil production is associated with financial price collars. We also have call options that, if exercised, would relate to an additional 16% of our 2011 oil production. Financial flexibility preservation As mentioned, commodity prices have been and will continue to be volatile and will continue to impact our profitability and cash flow. We understand this fact and manage our debt levels accordingly to preserve our liquidity and financial flexibility. We generally operate within the cash flow generated by our operations. However, during periods of low commodity prices, we may use our balance sheet strength to access debt or equity markets, allowing us to preserve our business and maintain momentum until markets recover. When prices improve, we can utilize excess operating cash flow to repay debt and invest in our activities that not only maintain but also increase value per share. Overview of 2010 Results 2010 was an outstanding year for Devon. We reported record net earnings and reserves and made significant progress on our offshore divestiture program announced in November 2009. We sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan, China and other International regions, generating $5.6 billion in after tax proceeds and after tax gains of $1.7 billion. Additionally, we have entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective governments to approve the 35 Table of Contents divestitures. Once the pending transactions are complete, we expect to have generated more than $8 billion in after tax proceeds from all our divestitures. These divestitures have allowed us to begin focusing entirely on our North American Onshore oil and natural gas portfolio. We grew North American Onshore production 1% in 2010 and replaced approximately 175% of our production with the drill bit at very attractive costs. The operational success we had with the drill bit increased our reserves to 2,873 MMBoe, the highest level in our history. While our total North American Onshore production grew 1% in 2010, our oil and NGL production increased 6% over 2009. Liquids prices began to stabilize in 2009 and continued to strengthen throughout 2010. Although our realized price for gas increased 17% in 2010, gas prices continue to be weak. Considering the current and expected trends in commodity pricing, we have leveraged the value of our balanced portfolio and shifted capital spending toward the more profitable liquids rich development opportunities currently available to us. The performance of these assets and higher price realizations are reflected in the 2010 earnings increase. Key measures of our performance for 2010, as well as certain operational developments, are summarized below: North America Onshore oil and NGL production grew 6% over 2009, to 71 million Boe. North American Onshore gas production decreased 1% compared with 2009, to 152 million Boe. The combined realized price for oil, gas and NGLs per Boe increased 22% to $31.91. Oil, gas and NGL derivatives generated net gains of $811 million in 2010, including cash receipts of $888 million. Per unit lease operating costs increased 4% to $7.42 per Boe. Operating cash flow increased to $5.5 billion, representing a 16% increase over 2009. Capitalized costs incurred in our oil and gas activities were $6.5 billion in 2010. This includes $1.2 billion for unproved acreage acquisitions. Reserves increased to 2,873 MMBoe, an all time high. From an operational perspective, we completed another successful year with the drill bit. We drilled 1,584 gross wells on our North America Onshore properties with a 99% success rate and grew our related proved reserves 9%. During 2010, we more than doubled our industry leading leasehold position in the liquids rich Cana Woodford shale play in western Oklahoma to more than 240,000 net acres. This allowed us to grow production more than 210% from the end of 2009 to the end of 2010. As a result of the success of our drilling and development efforts in the Cana Woodford shale, we also constructed a gas processing plant in 2010. In the Barnett Shale, we exited 2010 with production of 1.2 Bcfe per day, which includes 43 MBbls per day of liquids production. This represents a 16% increase in total production compared to the 2009 exit rate. In the Permian Basin, we continued to assemble additional liquids rich acreage. By the end of 2010, we had approximately one million net acres on liquids rich development opportunities which led to an increase in production of 16% from the end of 2009 to the end of 2010. Our net production from our Jackfish oil sands project in Canada averaged 25 MBbls per day. Jackfish continues to be one of Canadas most successful steam assisted gravity drainage projects. Construction of our second Jackfish project is now complete. We expect to have first oil production by the end of 2011. Additionally, we applied for regulatory approval of a third phase of Jackfish in 2010. During 2010, we used a portion of our offshore divestiture proceeds to invest $1.2 billion in unproved leasehold acquisition focused on oil and liquids rich gas plays. Our most significant single investment was our $500 million acquisition of a 50% interest in the Pike oil sands. The Pike acreage lies immediately adjacent to 36 Table of Contents the Jackfish project. We began appraisal drilling at Pike near the end of 2010 and are acquiring seismic data. The drilling results and seismic will help us determine the optimal configuration for the initial phase of development. We expect to begin the regulatory application process for the first Pike phase around the end of 2011. Our performance and offshore divestiture success throughout 2010 enabled us to end the year with a robust level of liquidity. At the end of 2010, we had $3.4 billion of cash and short term investments and $2.6 billion of available credit. Business and Industry Outlook Even though we possess a great deal of financial strength and flexibility, we are fully committed to exercising capital discipline, maximizing profits, maintaining balance sheet strength and optimizing growth per debt adjusted share. Our portfolio of assets provides a great deal of investment flexibility. At the end of 2010, our proved reserves were comprised of approximately 60% gas and 40% liquids. While gas prices remain challenged in the market, our near term focus is on the oil and liquids rich opportunities that exist within our balanced portfolio of properties. As a result, the vast majority of our 2011 drilling activity will be centered on our oil and liquids rich gas properties. Should the outlook for commodity prices change, we have the flexibility to redirect our capital to ensure we continually focus on the highest return assets in our portfolio. Our ability to leverage the depth and breadth of our existing portfolio of properties will be key to the successful execution of our growth and value creation objectives. With 2.9 billion Boe of proved reserves at the end of 2010, our North American onshore assets will provide many years of visible, economic growth and a good balance between liquids and natural gas. In 2011, we are targeting a 6 8% production increase. However, we expect this growth will be driven by oil and NGLs growth of at least 16%. Additionally, we will continue to use a portion of our offshore divestiture proceeds to repurchase common stock under our $3.5 billion share repurchase program. Therefore, our 2011 production growth will be even higher on a per debt adjusted share basis. Results of Operations As previously stated, we are in the process of divesting our offshore assets. As a result, all amounts in this document related to our International operations are presented as discontinued. Therefore, the production, revenue and expense amounts presented in this Results of Operations section exclude amounts related to our International assets unless otherwise noted. Even though we have divested our U.S. Offshore operations, these properties do not qualify as discontinued operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and operating data provided in this document that pertain to our continuing operations include amounts related to our U.S. Offshore operations. To facilitate comparisons of our ongoing operations subsequent to the planned divestitures, we have presented amounts related to our U.S. Offshore assets separate from those of our North American Onshore assets where appropriate. 37 Table of Contents Revenues Our oil, gas and NGL production volumes are shown in the following table. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009(2) 2009 2008(2) 2008 Oil (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 14 +17 % 12 +3 % 11 Canada 25 1 % 25 +17 % 22 North America Onshore 39 +5 % 37 +12 % 33 U.S. Offshore 2 62 % 5 15 % 6 Total 41 3 % 42 +8 % 39 Gas (Bcf) U.S. Onshore 699 +0 % 698 +5 % 669 Canada 214 4 % 223 +5 % 212 North America Onshore 913 1 % 921 +5 % 881 U.S. Offshore 17 63 % 45 22 % 57 Total 930 4 % 966 +3 % 938 NGLs (MMBbls) U.S. Onshore 28 +10 % 25 +9 % 24 Canada 4 6 % 4 5 % 4 North America Onshore 32 +8 % 29 +7 % 28 U.S. Offshore 55 % 1 +27 % Total 32 +6 % 30 +7 % 28 Total (MMBoe)(1) U.S. Onshore 158 +3 % 154 +5 % 146 Canada 65 3 % 66 +9 % 61 North America Onshore 223 +1 % 220 +6 % 207 U.S. Offshore 5 62 % 13 18 % 16 Total 228 2 % 233 +4 % 223 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. (2) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in the table. 38 Table of Contents The following table presents the prices we realized on our production volumes. These prices exclude any effects due to our oil, gas and NGL derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009 2009 2008 2008 Oil (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 75.53 +34 % $ 56.17 41 % $ 95.63 Canada $ 58.60 +24 % $ 47.35 33 % $ 71.04 North America Onshore $ 64.51 +29 % $ 50.11 37 % $ 79.45 U.S. Offshore $ 77.81 +28 % $ 60.75 42 % $ 104.90 Total $ 65.14 +27 % $ 51.39 38 % $ 83.35 Gas (per Mcf) U.S. Onshore $ 3.73 +19 % $ 3.14 58 % $ 7.43 Canada $ 4.11 +12 % $ 3.66 55 % $ 8.17 North America Onshore $ 3.82 +17 % $ 3.27 57 % $ 7.61 U.S. Offshore $ 5.12 +22 % $ 4.20 56 % $ 9.53 Total $ 3.84 +16 % $ 3.31 57 % $ 7.73 NGLs (per Bbl) U.S. Onshore $ 30.78 +32 % $ 23.40 43 % $ 40.97 Canada $ 46.60 +41 % $ 33.09 46 % $ 61.45 North America Onshore $ 32.55 +32 % $ 24.65 44 % $ 43.94 U.S. Offshore $ 38.22 +39 % $ 27.42 46 % $ 51.11 Total $ 32.61 +32 % $ 24.71 44 % $ 44.08 Combined (per Boe)(1) U.S. Onshore $ 28.42 +27 % $ 22.41 53 % $ 47.91 Canada $ 39.11 +21 % $ 32.29 44 % $ 57.65 North America Onshore $ 31.52 +24 % $ 25.38 50 % $ 50.78 U.S. Offshore $ 49.06 +26 % $ 38.83 48 % $ 74.55 Total $ 31.91 +22 % $ 26.15 50 % $ 52.49 (1) Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one to one basis with oil. The volume and price changes in the tables above caused the following changes to our oil, gas and NGL sales between 2008 and 2010. Oil Gas NGLs Total (In millions) 2008 sales $ 3,233 $ 7,244 $ 1,243 $ 11,720 Changes due to volumes 258 222 89 569 Changes due to prices (1,338 ) (4,269 ) (585 ) (6,192 ) 2009 sales 2,153 3,197 747 6,097 Changes due to volumes (67 ) (122 ) 46 (143 ) Changes due to prices 557 497 254 1,308 2010 sales $ 2,643 $ 3,572 $ 1,047 $ 7,262 39 Table of Contents Oil Sales 2010 vs. 2009 Oil sales increased $557 million as a result of a 27% increase in our realized price. The largest contributor to the increase in our realized price was the increase in the average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price over the same time period. Oil sales decreased $67 million due to a three percent decrease in production. The decrease was comprised of the net effects of a 62% decrease in our U.S. Offshore production and a five percent increase in our North America Onshore production. The decrease in our U.S. Offshore production was primarily due to the divestiture of such properties in the second quarter of 2010. The increased North America Onshore production resulted primarily from continued development of our Permian Basin properties in Texas and our Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in Canada. 2009 vs. 2008 Oil sales decreased $1.3 billion as a result of a 38% decrease in our realized price without hedges. The largest contributor to the decrease in our realized price was the decrease in the average NYMEX West Texas Intermediate index price over the same time period. Oil sales increased $258 million due to a three million barrel, or 8%, increase in production. The increased production resulted primarily from the continued development of Jackfish in Canada. Gas Sales 2010 vs. 2009 Gas sales increased $497 million as a result of a 16% increase in our realized price without hedges. This increase was largely due to increases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A four percent decrease in production during 2010 caused gas sales to decrease by $122 million. The decrease was primarily due to the divestiture of our U.S. Offshore properties in the second quarter of 2010, as well as higher Canadian government royalties. Also, our other North America Onshore properties decreased one percent due to reduced drilling during most of 2009 in response to lower gas prices. As a result of the reduced drilling activities during 2009, natural declines of existing wells outpaced production gains from new drilling in 2010. 2009 vs. 2008 Gas sales decreased $4.3 billion as a result of a 57% decrease in our realized price without hedges. This decrease was largely due to decreases in the North American regional index prices upon which our gas sales are based. A three percent increase in production during 2009 caused gas sales to increase by $222 million. Our North America Onshore properties contributed 40 Bcf of higher volumes. This increase included 25 Bcf of higher production in Canada due to a decline in Canadian government royalties, resulting largely from lower gas prices. The remainder of the North America Onshore growth resulted from new drilling and development that exceeded natural production declines, primarily in the Barnett Shale field in north Texas. These increases were partially offset by 12 Bcf of lower production from our U.S. Offshore properties, largely resulting from natural production declines. NGL Sales 2010 vs. 2009 NGL sales increased $254 million during 2010 as a result of a 32% increase in our realized price. The increase was largely due to an increase in the Mont Belvieu, Texas index price over the same time period. NGL sales increased $46 million in 2010 due to a six percent increase in production. The increase in production was primarily due to increased drilling in North America Onshore areas that have liquids rich gas. 2009 vs. 2008 NGL sales decreased $585 million as a result of a 44% decrease in our realized price. This decrease was largely due to a decrease in the Mont Belvieu, Texas index price over the same time period. NGL sales increased $89 million in 2009 due to a seven percent increase in production. The increase in production is primarily due to drilling and development in the Barnett Shale. 40 Table of Contents Oil, Gas and NGL Derivatives The following tables provide financial information associated with our oil, gas and NGL hedges. The first table presents the cash settlements and unrealized gains and losses recognized as components of our revenues. The subsequent tables present our oil, gas and NGL prices with, and without, the effects of the cash settlements. The prices do not include the effects of unrealized gains and losses. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Cash settlement receipts (payments): Gas derivatives $ 888 $ 505 $ (424 ) Oil derivatives 27 Total cash settlements 888 505 (397 ) Unrealized gains (losses) on fair value changes: Gas derivatives 12 (83 ) 243 Oil derivatives (91 ) (38 ) NGL derivatives 2 Total unrealized gains (losses) on fair value changes (77 ) (121 ) 243 Oil, gas and NGL derivatives $ 811 $ 384 $ (154 ) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 65.14 $ 3.84 $ 32.61 $ 31.91 Cash settlements of hedges 0.96 3.90 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 65.14 $ 4.80 $ 32.61 $ 35.81 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 51.39 $ 3.31 $ 24.71 $ 26.15 Cash settlements of hedges 0.52 2.16 Realized price, including cash settlements $ 51.39 $ 3.83 $ 24.71 $ 28.31 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Total (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Boe) Realized price without hedges $ 83.35 $ 7.73 $ 44.08 $ 52.49 Cash settlements of hedges 0.70 (0.46 ) (1.78 ) Realized price, including cash settlements $ 84.05 $ 7.27 $ 44.08 $ 50.71 Our oil, gas, and NGL derivatives include price swaps, costless collars and basis swaps. For the price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counterparty. The price collars set a floor and ceiling price. If the applicable monthly price indices are outside of the ranges set by the floor and ceiling prices in the various collars, we cash settle the difference with the counterparty. For the basis swaps, we receive a fixed differential between two index prices and pay a variable differential on the same two index prices to the contract counterparty. Cash settlements presented in the tables above represent net realized gains or losses related to these various instruments. 41 Table of Contents Additionally, to facilitate a portion of our price swaps, we have sold gas call options for 2012 and oil call options for 2011 and 2012. The call options give the counterparty the right to place us into a price swap at a predetermined fixed price. The terms of these call options are presented in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk of this report. During 2010 and 2009, we received $888 million, or $0.96 per Mcf, and $505 million, or $0.52 per Mcf, respectively, from counterparties to settle our gas derivatives. During 2008, we paid $424 million, or $0.46 per Mcf to counterparties to settle our gas derivatives and received $27 million, or $0.70 per Bbl from counterparties to settle our oil derivatives. We had no settlements on NGL derivatives in any of these periods. In addition to recognizing these cash settlement effects, we also recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our oil, gas and NGL derivative instruments in each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of these derivatives primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Based on the amount of volumes subject to our gas derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased our 2010 unrealized gains by approximately $154 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil derivative financial instruments would have increased our 2010 unrealized losses by approximately $142 million. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. Finally, the amount of production subject to oil, gas and NGL derivatives is not a variable in our cash flow calculations, but it does impact the total derivative values. Counterparty credit risk is also a component of commodity derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with thirteen separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2010, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. Including the cash settlements discussed above, our oil, gas and NGL derivatives generated net gains of $811 million and $384 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, and a net loss of $154 million during 2008. In addition to the impact of cash settlements, these net gains and losses were impacted by new positions and settlements that occurred during each period, as well as the relationships between contract prices and the associated forward curves. A summary of our outstanding oil, gas and NGL derivative positions as of December 31, 2010 is included in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this report. 42 Table of Contents Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Operating Costs and Expenses The details of the changes in marketing and midstream revenues, operating costs and expenses and the resulting operating profit are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 ($ in millions) Marketing and midstream: Revenues $ 1,867 +22 % $ 1,534 33 % $ 2,292 Operating costs and expenses 1,357 +33 % 1,022 37 % 1,611 Operating profit $ 510 0 % $ 512 25 % $ 681 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 Marketing and midstream revenues increased $333 million and operating costs and expenses increased $335 million, causing operating profit to decrease $2 million. Both revenues and expenses increased primarily due to higher natural gas and NGL prices, partially offset by the effects of lower gas marketing profits. 2009 vs. 2008 Marketing and midstream revenues decreased $758 million and operating costs and expenses decreased $589 million, causing operating profit to decrease $169 million. Both revenues and expenses decreased primarily due to lower natural gas and NGL prices, partially offset by higher NGL production and gas pipeline throughput. Lease Operating Expenses (LOE) The details of the changes in LOE are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 Lease operating expenses ($ in millions): U.S. Onshore $ 832 1 % $ 838 6 % $ 893 Canada 797 +18 % 673 13 % 776 North American Onshore 1,629 +8 % 1,511 10 % 1,669 U.S. Offshore 60 62 % 159 13 % 182 Total $ 1,689 +1 % $ 1,670 10 % $ 1,851 Lease operating expenses per Boe: U.S. Onshore $ 5.26 4 % $ 5.46 11 % $ 6.11 Canada $ 12.37 +22 % $ 10.15 20 % $ 12.74 North American Onshore $ 7.32 +7 % $ 6.87 15 % $ 8.06 U.S. Offshore $ 12.00 +0 % $ 11.98 +6 % $ 11.29 Total $ 7.42 +4 % $ 7.16 14 % $ 8.29 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 LOE increased $19 million in 2010, which included a $118 million increase related to our North America Onshore operations and a $99 million decrease related to our U.S. Offshore operations. North America Onshore LOE increased $78 million due to changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and 43 Table of Contents Canadian dollars. The remainder of the increase in North America Onshore LOE is primarily due to increased costs related to our Jackfish operation in Canada. U.S. Offshore LOE decreased primarily due to property divestitures in the second quarter of 2010. The increase due to exchange rates was also the main contributor to the changes in North America Onshore and total LOE per Boe. 2009 vs. 2008 LOE decreased $181 million in 2009. LOE dropped $182 million due to declining costs for fuel, materials, equipment and personnel, as well as declines in maintenance and well workover projects. Such declines largely resulted from decreasing demand for field services due to lower oil and gas prices. Changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar reduced LOE $49 million. Additionally, LOE decreased $31 million as a result of hurricane damages in 2008 to certain of our U.S. Offshore facilities and transportation systems. These factors, excluding the hurricane damage, were also the main contributors to the decrease in LOE per Boe on our North America Onshore properties. Production growth at our large scale Jackfish project also contributed to a decrease in LOE per Boe. As Jackfish production approached the facilitys capacity during 2009, its per unit costs declined, contributing to lower overall LOE per Boe. The remainder of our four percent company wide production growth added $81 million to LOE during 2009. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of production taxes and ad valorem taxes assessed by various government agencies on our U.S. Onshore properties. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. The following table details the changes in our taxes other than income taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 ($ in millions) Production $ 210 +59 % $ 132 57 % $ 306 Ad valorem 165 6 % 175 +8 % 162 Other 5 30 % 7 4 % 8 Total $ 380 +21 % $ 314 34 % $ 476 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 Production taxes increased $78 million in 2010. This increase was largely due to higher U.S. Onshore revenues, as well as a decrease in production tax credits associated with certain properties in the state of Texas. Ad valorem taxes decreased $10 million primarily due to lower assessed values of our U.S. Onshore oil and gas property and equipment. 2009 vs. 2008 Production taxes decreased $174 million in 2009. This decrease was largely due to lower U.S. Onshore revenues, as well as an increase in production tax credits associated with certain properties in the state of Texas. Ad valorem taxes increased $13 million primarily due to higher assessed oil and gas property and equipment values. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization of Oil and Gas Properties (DDA) DDA of oil and gas properties is calculated by multiplying the percentage of total proved reserve volumes produced during the year, by the depletable base. The depletable base represents our capitalized investment, net of accumulated DDA and reductions of carrying value, plus future development costs related to proved undeveloped reserves. Generally, when reserve volumes are revised up or down, then the DDA rate per unit of production will change inversely. However, when the depletable base changes, then the DDA rate moves in the same direction. The per unit DDA rate is not affected by production volumes. Absolute or total DDA, as opposed to the rate per unit of production, generally moves in the same direction as production volumes. Oil and gas property DDA is calculated separately on a country by country basis. 44 Table of Contents The changes in our production volumes, DDA rate per unit and DDA of oil and gas properties are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 Total production volumes (MMBoe) 228 2 % 233 +4 % 223 DDA rate ($ per Boe) $ 7.36 6 % $ 7.86 40 % $ 13.20 DDA expense ($ in millions) $ 1,675 9 % $ 1,832 38 % $ 2,948 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. The following table details the changes in DDA of oil and gas properties between 2008 and 2010 due to the changes in production volumes and DDA rate presented in the table above (in millions). 2008 DDA $ 2,948 Change due to volumes 130 Change due to rate (1,246 ) 2009 DDA 1,832 Change due to volumes (43 ) Change due to rate (114 ) 2010 DDA $ 1,675 2010 vs. 2009 Oil and gas property related DDA decreased $114 million during 2010 due to a six percent decrease in the DDA rate. The largest contributors to the rate decrease were our 2010 U.S. Offshore property divestitures and a reduction of the carrying value of our United States oil and gas properties recognized in the first quarter of 2009. This reduction totaled $6.4 billion and resulted from a full cost ceiling limitation. These decreases were partially offset by the effects of costs incurred and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2010 drilling and development activities, as well as changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars. 2009 vs. 2008 Oil and gas property related DDA decreased $1.2 billion due to a 40% decrease in the DDA rate. The largest contributors to the rate decrease were reductions of the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties recognized in the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008. These reductions totaled $16.3 billion and resulted from full cost ceiling limitations in the United States and Canada. In addition, the effects of changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars also contributed to the rate decrease. These factors were partially offset by the effects of costs incurred and the transfer of previously unproved costs to the depletable base as a result of 2009 drilling activities. Partially offsetting the impact from the lower 2009 DDA rate was our four percent production increase, which caused oil and gas property related DDA expense to increase $130 million. The impact of adopting the SECs new Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting rules at the end of 2009 had virtually no impact on our DDA rate. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our net GA consists of three primary components. The largest of these components is the gross amount of expenses incurred for personnel costs, office expenses, professional fees and other GA items. The gross amount of these expenses is partially offset by two components. One is the amount of GA capitalized pursuant to the full cost method of accounting related to exploration and development activities. The other is the amount of GA reimbursed by working interest owners of properties for which we serve as the operator. These reimbursements are received during both the drilling and operational stages of a propertys life. The gross amount of GA incurred, less the amounts capitalized and reimbursed, is recorded as net GA in the 45 Table of Contents consolidated statements of operations. Net GA includes expenses related to oil, gas and NGL exploration and production activities, marketing and midstream activities, as well as corporate overhead activities. See the following table for a summary of GA expenses by component. Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs 2009 vs 2010 2009(1) 2009 2008(1) 2008 ($ in millions) Gross GA $ 987 11 % $ 1,107 +0 % $ 1,103 Capitalized GA (311 ) 6 % (332 ) 2 % (337 ) Reimbursed GA (113 ) 11 % (127 ) +5 % (121 ) Net GA $ 563 13 % $ 648 +0 % $ 645 (1) All percentage changes included in this table are based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table. 2010 vs. 2009 Gross GA decreased $120 million largely due to a decline in employee severance costs. Such costs decreased primarily due to Gulf of Mexico employees that were impacted by the integration of our Gulf of Mexico and International operations into one offshore unit in the second quarter of 2009 and other employee departures during 2009. Gross GA, as well as capitalized GA, also decreased subsequent to our mid year 2010 Gulf of Mexico divestitures as a result of the decline in our workforce. The Gulf of Mexico divestitures were also the main contributor to the decrease in GA reimbursements. Gross and capitalized GA also declined due to reduced spending initiatives for certain discretionary cost categories. These decreases were partially offset by an increase due to the effects of changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars. 2009 vs. 2008 Gross GA increased $4 million. This increase was due to approximately $60 million of higher costs for employee compensation and benefits, mostly offset by the effects of our 2009 reduced spending initiatives for certain discretionary cost categories. Employee cost increases in 2009 included an additional $57 million of severance costs. This increase was primarily due to Gulf of Mexico and other employee departures during 2009. Additionally, postretirement benefit costs increased approximately $50 million. The increases in employee costs were partially offset by a $27 million decrease due to accelerated share based compensation expense recognized in 2008 resulting from a modification of certain executives compensation arrangements. The modified compensation arrangements provide that executives who meet certain years of service and age criteria can retire and continue vesting in outstanding share based grants. Although this modification does not accelerate the vesting of the executives grants, it does accelerate the expense recognition as executives approach the years of service and age criteria. Restructuring Costs The following schedule includes the components of restructuring costs. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Operations Operations Total Operations Operations Total (In millions) Cash severance $ (17 ) $ 1 $ (16 ) $ 66 $ 24 $ 90 Share based awards (10 ) (5 ) (15 ) 39 24 63 Lease obligations 70 70 Asset impairments 11 11 Other 3 3 Restructuring costs $ 57 $ (4 ) $ 53 $ 105 $ 48 $ 153 46 Table of Contents Employee Severance In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recognized $153 million of estimated employee severance costs associated with the planned divestiture of our offshore assets that was announced in November 2009. This amount was based on estimates of the number of employees that would ultimately be impacted by the divestitures and included amounts related to cash severance costs and accelerated vesting of share based grants. Of the $153 million total, $105 million related to our U.S. Offshore operations and the remainder related to our International discontinued operations. During 2010, we divested all of our U.S. Offshore assets and a significant part of our International assets. As a result of these divestitures and associated employee terminations, we decreased our estimate of employee severance costs in 2010 by $31 million. More offshore employees than previously estimated received comparable positions with either the purchaser of the properties or in our U.S. Onshore operations, and this caused the $31 million decrease to our severance estimate. This decrease includes $27 million related to our U.S. Offshore operations and $4 million related to our International discontinued operations. Lease Obligations As a result of the divestitures discussed above, we ceased using certain office space that was subject to non cancellable operating lease arrangements. Consequently, in 2010, we recognized $70 million of restructuring costs that represent the present value of our future obligations under the leases, net of anticipated sublease income. The estimate of lease obligations was based upon certain key estimates that could change over the term of the leases. These estimates include the estimated sublease income that we may receive over the term of the leases, as well as the amount of variable operating costs that we will be required to pay under the leases. Asset Impairments In 2010, we recognized $11 million of asset impairment charges for leasehold improvements and furniture associated with the office space we ceased using. Interest Expense The following schedule includes the components of interest expense. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Interest based on debt outstanding $ 408 $ 437 $ 426 Capitalized interest (76 ) (94 ) (111 ) Early retirement of debt 19 Other 12 6 14 Total interest expense $ 363 $ 349 $ 329 2010 vs. 2009 Interest based on debt outstanding decreased in 2010 primarily due to the retirement of $177 million of 10.125% notes upon their maturity in the fourth quarter of 2009 and the early redemption of our 7.25% senior notes as discussed below. Capitalized interest decreased during 2010 primarily due to the divestitures of our U.S. Offshore properties during the first half of 2010, which was partially offset by higher capitalized interest associated with our Canadian oil sands development projects. In the second quarter of 2010, we redeemed $350 million of 7.25% senior notes prior to their scheduled maturity of October 1, 2011. The notes were redeemed for $384 million, which represented 100 percent of the principal amount, a make whole premium of $28 million and $6 million of accrued and unpaid interest. On the date of redemption, these notes also had an unamortized premium of $9 million. The $19 million presented 47 Table of Contents in the table above represents the net of the $28 million make whole premium and $9 million amortization of the remaining premium. 2009 vs. 2008 Interest based on debt outstanding increased $11 million from 2008 to 2009. This increase was primarily due to interest paid on the $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes that we issued in January 2009. This was partially offset by lower interest resulting from the retirement of our exchangeable debentures during the third quarter of 2008 and lower interest rates on our floating rate commercial paper borrowings. Capitalized interest decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to the sales of our West African exploration and development properties in 2008 and the completion of the Access pipeline transportation system in Canada in the second quarter of 2008. Interest Rate and Other Financial Instruments The details of the changes in our interest rate and other financial instruments are shown in the table below. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) (Gains) losses from: Interest rate swaps cash settlements $ (44 ) $ (40 ) $ (1 ) Interest rate swaps unrealized fair value changes 30 (66 ) (104 ) Chevron common stock 363 Option embedded in exchangeable debentures (109 ) Total $ (14 ) $ (106 ) $ 149 Interest Rate Swaps During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we received cash settlements totaling $44 million, $40 million and $1 million, respectively, from counterparties to settle our interest rate swaps. In addition to recognizing cash settlements, we recognize unrealized changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps each reporting period. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties or brokers. In 2010, we recorded an unrealized loss of $30 million as a result of changes in interest rates. In 2009 and 2008, we recorded unrealized gains of $66 million and $104 million, respectively, as a result of changes in interest rates. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by a third party. Based on the notional amount subject to the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have decreased our 2010 unrealized loss for our interest rate swaps by approximately $68 million. Similar to our commodity derivative contracts, counterparty credit risk is also a component of interest rate derivative valuations. We have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with seven separate counterparties. Additionally, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold, above which collateral must be posted, decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. The credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade as of December 31, 2010. 48 Table of Contents Chevron Common Stock and Related Embedded Option Until October 31, 2008, we owned 14.2 million shares of Chevron common stock and recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of this investment. On October 31, 2008, we exchanged these shares of Chevron common stock for Chevrons interest in the Drunkards Wash properties located in east central Utah and $280 million in cash. In accordance with the terms of the exchange, the fair value of our investment in the Chevron shares was estimated to be $67.71 per share on the exchange date. Prior to the exchange of these shares, we calculated the fair value of our investment in Chevron common stock using Chevrons published market price. We also recognized unrealized changes in the fair value of the conversion option embedded in the debentures exchangeable into shares of Chevron common stock. The embedded option was not actively traded in an established market. Therefore, we estimated its fair value using quotes obtained from a broker for trades occurring near the valuation date. The loss during 2008 on our investment in Chevron common stock was directly attributable to a $25.62 per share decrease in the estimated fair value while we owned Chevrons common stock during the year. The gain on the embedded option during 2008 was directly attributable to the change in fair value of the Chevron common stock from January 1, 2008 to the maturity date of August 15, 2008. Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties During 2009 and 2008, we reduced the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties due to full cost ceiling limitations. A summary of these reductions and additional discussion is provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 After After Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) United States $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 6,538 $ 4,168 Canada 3,353 2,488 Total $ 6,408 $ 4,085 $ 9,891 $ 6,656 The 2009 reduction was recognized in the first quarter and the 2008 reductions were recognized in the fourth quarter. The reductions resulted from significant decreases in each countrys full cost ceiling compared to the immediately preceding quarter. The lower United States ceiling value in the first quarter of 2009 largely resulted from the effects of declining natural gas prices subsequent to December 31, 2008. The lower ceiling values in the fourth quarter of 2008 largely resulted from the effects of sharp declines in oil, gas and NGL prices compared to September 30, 2008. To demonstrate these declines, the March 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008 weighted average wellhead prices are presented in the following table. March 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 September 30, 2008 Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Oil Gas NGLs Country (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) United States $ 47.30 $ 2.67 $ 17.04 $ 42.21 $ 4.68 $ 16.16 $ 97.62 $ 5.28 $ 38.00 Canada N/A N/A N/A $ 23.23 $ 5.31 $ 20.89 $ 59.72 $ 6.00 $ 62.78 N/A Not applicable. The March 31, 2009 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $49.66 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $3.63 per MMBtu for gas. The December 31, 2008 oil and gas wellhead prices in the table above compare to the NYMEX cash price of $44.60 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $5.71 per MMBtu for gas. The September 30, 2008, wellhead prices 49 Table of Contents in the table compare to the NYMEX cash price of $100.64 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $7.12 per MMBtu for gas. Other, net The following table includes the components of other, net. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Interest and dividend income $ (13 ) $ (8 ) $ (54 ) Deep water royalties (84 ) Hurricane insurance proceeds (162 ) Other (32 ) 24 (1 ) Total $ (45 ) $ (68 ) $ (217 ) Interest and dividend income decreased from 2008 to 2009 due to a decrease in dividends received on our previously owned investment in Chevron common stock and a decrease in interest received on cash equivalents due to lower rates and balances. In 1995, the United States Congress passed the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act. The intent of this legislation was to encourage deep water exploration in the Gulf of Mexico by providing relief from the obligation to pay royalties on certain federal leases. Deep water leases issued in certain years by the Minerals Management Service (the MMS) have contained price thresholds, such that if the market prices for oil or gas exceeded the thresholds for a given year, royalty relief would not be granted for that year. In October 2007, a federal district court ruled in favor of a plaintiff who had challenged the legality of including price thresholds in deep water leases. Additionally, in January 2009 a federal appellate court upheld this district court ruling. This judgment was later appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which, in October 2009, declined to review the appellate courts ruling. The Supreme Courts decision ended the MMSs judicial course to enforce the price thresholds. Prior to September 30, 2009, we had $84 million accrued for potential royalties on various deep water leases. Based upon the Supreme Courts decision, we reduced to zero the $84 million loss contingency accrual in the third quarter of 2009. In 2008, we recognized $162 million of excess insurance recoveries for damages suffered in 2005 related to hurricanes that struck the Gulf of Mexico. The excess recoveries resulted from business interruption claims on policies that were in effect when the 2005 hurricanes occurred. Income Taxes The following table presents our total income tax expense (benefit) and a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate to the U.S. statutory income tax rate. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Total income tax expense (benefit) (In millions) $ 1,235 $ (1,773 ) $ (1,121 ) U.S. statutory income tax rate 35 % (35 )% (35 )% Repatriations and assumed repatriations 4 % 1 % 7 % State income taxes 1 % (2 )% (1 )% Taxation on Canadian operations (1 )% (1 )% 5 % Other (4 )% (2 )% (3 )% Effective income tax expense (benefit) rate 35 % (39 )% (27 )% 50 Table of Contents During 2010 and 2009, pursuant to the completed and planned divestitures of our International assets located outside North America, a portion of our foreign earnings were no longer deemed to be permanently reinvested. Accordingly, we recognized deferred income tax expense of $144 million and $55 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to assumed repatriations of earnings from certain of our foreign subsidiaries. During 2008, we recognized $312 million of additional income tax expense that resulted from two related factors associated with our foreign operations. First, during 2008, we repatriated $2.6 billion from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Second, we made certain tax policy election changes in the second quarter of 2008 to minimize the taxes we otherwise would pay for the cash repatriations, as well as the taxable gains associated with the sales of assets in West Africa. As a result of the repatriation and tax policy election changes, we recognized $295 million of additional current tax expense and $17 million of additional deferred tax expense. Excluding the $312 million of additional tax expense, our effective income tax benefit rate would have been 34% for 2008. Earnings From Discontinued Operations For all years presented in the following tables, our discontinued operations include amounts related to our assets in Azerbaijan, Brazil, China and other minor International properties. Additionally, during 2008, our discontinued operations included amounts related to our assets in West Africa, including Equatorial Guinea, Cote dIvoire, Gabon and other countries in the region until they were sold. Following are the components of earnings from discontinued operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Total production (MMBoe) 10 16 18 Combined price without hedges (per Boe) $ 72.68 $ 59.25 $ 92.72 (In millions) Operating revenues $ 693 $ 945 $ 1,702 Expenses and other, net: Operating expenses 212 496 776 Restructuring costs (4 ) 48 Reduction of carrying value of oil and gas properties 109 494 Gain on sale of oil and gas properties (1,818 ) (17 ) (819 ) Other, net (82 ) (13 ) (7 ) Total expenses and other, net (1,692 ) 623 444 Earnings before income taxes 2,385 322 1,258 Income tax expense 168 48 367 Earnings from discontinued operations $ 2,217 $ 274 $ 891 51 Table of Contents The following table presents gains on our offshore and African divestiture transactions by year. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 After After After Gross Taxes Gross Taxes Gross Taxes (In millions) Azerbaijan $ 1,543 $ 1,524 $ $ $ $ China Panyu 308 235 Equatorial Guinea 619 544 Gabon 117 122 Cote dIvoire 17 17 83 95 Other (33 ) (27 ) 8 Total $ 1,818 $ 1,732 $ 17 $ 17 $ 819 $ 769 2010 vs. 2009 Earnings increased $1.9 billion in 2010 primarily as a result of the $1.5 billion gain ($1.5 billion after taxes) from the divestiture of our Azerbaijan operations and the $308 million gain ($235 million after taxes) from the divestiture of our Panyu operations in China. Also, earnings increased $109 million due to the 2009 reductions of carrying value of our oil and gas properties, which primarily related to Brazil. The Brazilian reduction resulted largely from an exploratory well drilled at the BM BAR 3 block in the offshore Barreirinhas Basin. After drilling this well in the first quarter of 2009, we concluded that the well did not have adequate reserves for commercial viability. As a result, the seismic, leasehold and drilling costs associated with this well contributed to the reduction recognized in the first quarter of 2009. 2009 vs. 2008 Earnings from discontinued operations decreased $617 million in 2009. Our discontinued earnings were impacted by several factors. First, operating revenues declined largely due to a 36% decrease in the price realized on our production, which was driven by a decline in crude oil index prices. Second, both operating revenues and expenses declined due to divestitures that closed in 2008. Earnings also decreased $752 million in 2009 due to larger gains recognized on West African asset divestitures in 2008. Partially offsetting these decreased earnings in 2009 was the larger reduction of carrying value recognized in 2008 compared to 2009. The reductions largely consisted of full cost ceiling limitations related to our assets in Brazil that were caused by a decline in oil prices. Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity The following discussion of capital resources, uses and liquidity should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 52 Table of Contents Sources and Uses of Cash The following table presents the sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents. The table presents capital expenditures on a cash basis. Therefore, these amounts differ from capital expenditure amounts that include accruals and are referred to elsewhere in this document. Additional discussion of these items follows the table. 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Sources of cash and cash equivalents: Operating cash flow continuing operations $ 5,022 $ 4,232 $ 8,448 Divestitures of property and equipment 4,310 34 117 Cash distributed from discontinued operations 2,864 1,898 Commercial paper borrowings 1,431 1 Debt issuance, net of commercial paper repayments 182 Redemptions of long term investments 21 7 250 Stock option exercises 111 42 116 Proceeds from exchange of Chevron stock 280 Other 16 8 59 Total sources of cash and cash equivalents 12,344 5,936 11,169 Uses of cash and cash equivalents: Capital expenditures (6,476 ) (4,879 ) (8,843 ) Commercial paper repayments (1,432 ) Debt repayments (350 ) (178 ) (1,031 ) Net credit facility repayments (1,450 ) Repurchases of common stock (1,168 ) (665 ) Redemption of preferred stock (150 ) Dividends (281 ) (284 ) (289 ) Purchases of short term investments (145 ) Other (19 ) (17 ) Total uses of cash and cash equivalents (9,871 ) (5,358 ) (12,428 ) Increase (decrease) from continuing operations 2,473 578 (1,259 ) Increase (decrease) from discontinued operations, net of distributions to continuing operations (211 ) 6 386 Effect of foreign exchange rates 17 43 (116 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 2,279 $ 627 $ (989 ) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 3,290 $ 1,011 $ 384 Short term investments at end of year $ 145 $ $ Operating Cash Flow Continuing Operations Net cash provided by operating activities (operating cash flow) continued to be a significant source of capital and liquidity in 2010. Changes in operating cash flow from our continuing operations are largely due to the same factors that affect our net earnings, with the exception of those earnings changes due to such noncash expenses as DDA, financial instrument fair value changes, property impairments and deferred income taxes. As a result, our operating cash flow increased 19% during 2010 primarily due to the increase in revenues as discussed in the Results of Operations section of this report. 53 Table of Contents During 2010, our operating cash flow funded approximately 78% of our cash payments for capital expenditures. However, our capital expenditures for 2010 included $500 million paid to form a heavy oil joint venture and acquire a 50 percent interest in the Pike oil sands in Alberta, Canada. This acquisition was completed in connection with the offshore divestitures discussed below. Excluding this $500 million acquisition, our operating cash flow funded approximately 84% of our capital expenditures during 2010. Offshore divestiture proceeds were used to fund the remainder of our cash based capital expenditures. During 2009, our operating cash flow funded approximately 87% of our cash payments for capital expenditures. Commercial paper borrowings were used to fund the remainder of our cash based capital expenditures. During 2008, our capital expenditures were primarily funded by our operating cash flow and pre existing cash balances. Other Sources of Cash Continuing and Discontinued Operations As needed, we supplement our operating cash flow and available cash by accessing available credit under our senior credit facility and commercial paper program. We may also issue long term debt to supplement our operating cash flow while maintaining adequate liquidity under our credit facilities. Additionally, we may acquire short term investments to maximize our income on available cash balances. As needed, we reduce such short term investment balances to further supplement our operating cash flow and available cash. During 2010, we divested our U.S. Offshore, Azerbaijan, China and other minor international properties, generating $6.6 billion in pre tax proceeds net of closing adjustments, or $5.6 billion after taxes. We have used proceeds from these divestitures to repay all our commercial paper borrowings, retire $350 million of other debt that was to mature in October 2011 and begin repurchasing our common shares. In addition, we began redeploying proceeds into our North America Onshore properties, including the $500 million Pike oil sands acquisition mentioned above. During 2009, we issued $500 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2014 and $700 million of 6.30% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2019. The net proceeds received of $1.187 billion, after discounts and issuance costs, were used primarily to repay Devons $1.005 billion of outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to the $1.005 billion commercial paper repayment in January 2009, we utilized additional commercial paper borrowings of $1.431 billion to fund capital expenditures in excess of our operating cash flow. During 2008, we received $2.6 billion in pre tax proceeds, or $1.9 billion after taxes and purchase price adjustments from sales of assets located in Equatorial Guinea and other West African countries. Also, in conjunction with these asset sales, we repatriated an additional $2.6 billion of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries to the United States. We used these combined sources of cash in 2008 to fund debt repayments, common stock repurchases, redemptions of preferred stock and dividends on common and preferred stock. Additionally, we reduced our short term investment balances by $250 million and received $280 million from the exchange of our investment in Chevron common stock. 54 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures are presented by geographic area and type in the following table. The amounts in the table below reflect cash payments for capital expenditures, including cash paid for capital expenditures incurred in prior periods. Capital expenditures actually incurred during 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $6.9 billion, $4.7 billion and $10.0 billion, respectively. 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Onshore $ 3,689 $ 2,413 $ 5,606 Canada 1,826 1,064 1,459 North American Onshore 5,515 3,477 7,065 U.S. Offshore 376 845 1,157 Total exploration and development 5,891 4,322 8,222 Midstream 236 323 451 Other 349 234 170 Total continuing operations $ 6,476 $ 4,879 $ 8,843 Our capital expenditures consist of amounts related to our oil and gas exploration and development operations, our midstream operations and other corporate activities. The vast majority of our capital expenditures are for the acquisition, drilling and development of oil and gas properties, which totaled $5.9 billion, $4.3 billion and $8.2 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in exploration and development capital spending in 2010 was partially due to the $500 million Pike oil sands acquisition mentioned above. Additionally, with rising oil and NGL prices and proceeds from our offshore divestiture program, we are increasing drilling primarily to grow liquids production across our North America Onshore portfolio of properties. The decline in capital expenditures from 2008 to 2009 was due to decreased drilling activities in most of our operating areas in response to lower commodity prices in 2009 compared to previous years. Also, the 2008 capital expenditures include $2.6 billion related to acquisitions of properties in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Canada. Capital expenditures for our midstream operations are primarily for the construction and expansion of natural gas processing plants, natural gas gathering and pipeline systems and oil pipelines. Our midstream capital expenditures in 2010 were largely impacted by reduced U.S. Onshore dry gas drilling activities. Capital expenditures related to corporate activities increased in 2010. This increase is largely driven by the construction of our new headquarters in Oklahoma City. Net Repayments of Debt During 2010, we repaid $1.4 billion of commercial paper borrowings and redeemed $350 million of 7.25% senior notes prior to their scheduled maturity of October 1, 2011, primarily with proceeds received from our U.S. Offshore divestitures. During 2009, we repaid our $177 million 10.125% notes upon maturity in the fourth quarter. During 2008, we repaid $1.5 billion in outstanding credit facility borrowings primarily with proceeds received from the sales of assets under our African divestiture program. Also during 2008, virtually all holders of exchangeable debentures exercised their option to exchange their debentures for shares of Chevron common stock owned by us. The debentures matured on August 15, 2008. In lieu of delivering our shares of Chevron common stock, we exercised our option to pay the exchanging debenture holders cash totaling $1.0 billion. This amount included the retirement of debentures with a book value of $652 million and a $379 million payment of the related embedded derivative option. 55 Table of Contents Repurchases of Common Stock The following table summarizes our repurchases, including unsettled shares, under approved plans during 2010 and 2008 (amounts and shares in millions). 2010 2008 Repurchase Program Amount Shares Per Share Amount Shares Per Share 2010 program $ 1,201 18.3 $ 65.58 $ $ Annual program 178 2.0 $ 87.83 2007 program 487 4.5 $ 109.25 Totals $ 1,201 18.3 $ 65.58 $ 665 6.5 $ 102.56 No shares were repurchased in 2009. The 2010 program expires on December 31, 2011 and the 2008 program and annual program expired on December 31, 2009. Redemption of Preferred Stock On June 20, 2008, we redeemed all 1.5 million outstanding shares of our 6.49% Series A cumulative preferred stock. Each share of preferred stock was redeemed for cash at a redemption price of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends up to the redemption date. Dividends Devon paid common stock dividends of $281 million (or $0.64 per share) in 2010 and $284 million (or $0.64 per share) in both 2009 and 2008, respectively. Devon paid dividends of $5 million in 2008 to preferred stockholders. Devon redeemed its outstanding preferred stock in the second quarter of 2008. Liquidity Historically, our primary source of capital and liquidity has been operating cash flow. Additionally, we maintain revolving lines of credit and a commercial paper program, which can be accessed as needed to supplement operating cash flow. Other available sources of capital and liquidity include the issuance of equity and debt securities that can be issued pursuant to our automatically effective registration statement filed with the SEC. This registration statement can be used to offer short term and long term debt securities. Another major source of future liquidity will be proceeds from the sales of our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola. We estimate the combination of these sources of capital will be adequate to fund future capital expenditures, share repurchases, debt repayments and other contractual commitments as discussed later in this section. Operating Cash Flow Our operating cash flow is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is pricing of the oil, gas and NGLs produced. Due to improving oil and NGL prices, our operating cash flow increased approximately 16% to $5.5 billion in 2010 as compared to 2009. We expect operating cash flow to continue to be our primary source of liquidity. Commodity Prices Prices for oil, gas and NGLs are determined primarily by prevailing market conditions. Regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other substantially variable factors influence market conditions for these products. These factors, which are difficult to predict, create volatility in oil, gas and NGL prices and are beyond our control. We expect this volatility to continue throughout 2011. To mitigate some of the risk inherent in prices, we have utilized various price swap, fixed price physical delivery and price collar contracts to set minimum and maximum prices on our 2011 production. As of February 10, 2011, approximately 29% of our 2011 gas production is associated with financial price swaps and fixed price physicals. We also have basis swaps associated with 0.2 Bcf per day of our 2011 gas production. Additionally, approximately 36% of our 2011 oil production is associated with financial price 56 Table of Contents collars. We also have call options that, if exercised, would hedge an additional 16% of our 2011 oil production. Commodity prices can also affect our operating cash flow through an indirect effect on operating expenses. Significant commodity price increases can lead to an increase in drilling and development activities. As a result, the demand and cost for people, services, equipment and materials may also increase, causing a negative impact on our cash flow. However, the inverse is also true during periods of depressed commodity prices. Interest Rates Our operating cash flow can also be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. As of February 10, 2011, we had total debt of $6.2 billion with an overall weighted average borrowing rate of 6.4%. To manage our exposure to interest rate volatility, we have interest rate swap instruments with a total notional amount of $2.1 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect, based upon us paying a fixed rate and receiving a floating rate. Including the effects of these swaps, the weighted average interest rate related to our debt was 5.7% as of February 10, 2011. Credit Losses Our operating cash flow is also exposed to credit risk in a variety of ways. We are exposed to the credit risk of the customers who purchase our oil, gas and NGL production. We are also exposed to credit risk related to the collection of receivables from our joint interest partners for their proportionate share of expenditures made on projects we operate. We are also exposed to the credit risk of counterparties to our derivative financial contracts as discussed previously in this report. We utilize a variety of mechanisms to limit our exposure to the credit risks of our customers, partners and counterparties. Such mechanisms include, under certain conditions, posting of letters of credit, prepayment requirements and collateral posting requirements. Offshore Divestitures During 2010, we sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan, China and other International regions, generating $5.6 billion in after tax proceeds. Additionally, we have entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore assets in Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective governments to approve the divestitures. Once the pending transactions are complete, we expect to have generated more than $8 billion in after tax proceeds. Similar to 2010, we expect to continue using the divestiture proceeds to invest in North America Onshore exploration and development opportunities, reduce our debt and repurchase our common shares. Credit Availability We have a $2.65 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving line of credit (the Senior Credit Facility) that can be accessed to provide liquidity as needed. The maturity date for $2.19 billion of the Senior Credit Facility is April 7, 2013. The maturity date for the remaining $0.46 billion is April 7, 2012. All amounts outstanding will be due and payable on the respective maturity dates unless the maturity is extended. Prior to each April 7 anniversary date, we have the option to extend the maturity of the Senior Credit Facility for one year, subject to the approval of the lenders. The Senior Credit Facility includes a revolving Canadian subfacility in a maximum amount of U.S. $500 million. Amounts borrowed under the Senior Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at various fixed rate options for periods of up to twelve months. Such rates are generally less than the prime rate. However, we may elect to borrow at the prime rate. We also have access to short term credit under our commercial paper program. Total borrowings under the commercial paper program may not exceed $2.2 billion. Also, any borrowings under the commercial paper program reduce available capacity under the Senior Credit Facility on a dollar for dollar basis. Commercial paper debt generally has a maturity of between one and 90 days, although it can have a maturity of up to 365 days, and bears interest at rates agreed to at the time of the borrowing. The interest rate is based on a 57 Table of Contents standard index such as the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, or the money market rate as found on the commercial paper market. The Senior Credit Facility contains only one material financial covenant. This covenant requires us to maintain a ratio of total funded debt to total capitalization, as defined in the credit agreement, of no more than 65%. The credit agreement defines total funded debt as funds received through the issuance of debt securities such as debentures, bonds, notes payable, credit facility borrowings and short term commercial paper borrowings. In addition, total funded debt includes all obligations with respect to payments received in consideration for oil, gas and NGL production yet to be acquired or produced at the time of payment. Funded debt excludes our outstanding letters of credit and trade payables. The credit agreement defines total capitalization as the sum of funded debt and stockholders equity adjusted for noncash financial writedowns, such as full cost ceiling impairments. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with this covenant. Our debt to capitalization ratio at December 31, 2010, as calculated pursuant to the terms of the agreement, was 15.1%. Our access to funds from the Senior Credit Facility is not restricted under any material adverse effect clauses. It is not uncommon for credit agreements to include such clauses. These clauses can remove the obligation of the banks to fund the credit line if any condition or event would reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on the borrowers financial condition, operations, properties or business considered as a whole, the borrowers ability to make timely debt payments, or the enforceability of material terms of the credit agreement. While our credit facility includes covenants that require us to report a condition or event having a material adverse effect, the obligation of the banks to fund the credit facility is not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse effect. The following schedule summarizes the capacity of our Senior Credit Facility by maturity date, as well as our available capacity as of February 10, 2011 (in millions). April 7, 2012 maturity $ 463 April 7, 2013 maturity 2,187 Total Senior Credit Facility 2,650 Less: Outstanding credit facility borrowings Outstanding commercial paper borrowings 625 Outstanding letters of credit 39 Total available capacity $ 1,986 As presented in the table above, we had $625 million of commercial paper borrowings as of February 10, 2011. Although we ended 2010 with $3.4 billion of cash and short term investments, the vast majority of this amount consists of proceeds from our International offshore divestitures. For the time being, we have decided not to repatriate these proceeds to the United States or permanently invest them in Canada. This decision is based on our ongoing evaluation of our future cash needs across our operations in the United States and Canada, as well as the relatively low borrowing rates on our short term borrowings. If we do not repatriate these proceeds to the United States in the near term, we may continue to increase our commercial paper borrowings to supplement our operating cash flow in funding our common stock repurchases and capital expenditures. Debt Ratings We receive debt ratings from the major ratings agencies in the United States. In determining our debt ratings, the agencies consider a number of items including, but not limited to, debt levels, planned asset sales, near term and long term production growth opportunities and capital allocation challenges. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix, and commodity pricing levels are also considered by the rating agencies. Our current debt ratings are BBB+ with a stable outlook by both Fitch and Standard Poors, and Baa1 with a stable outlook by Moodys. 58 Table of Contents There are no rating triggers in any of our contractual obligations that would accelerate scheduled maturities should our debt rating fall below a specified level. Our cost of borrowing under our Senior Credit Facility is predicated on our corporate debt rating. Therefore, even though a ratings downgrade would not accelerate scheduled maturities, it would adversely impact the interest rate on any borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. Under the terms of the Senior Credit Facility, a one notch downgrade would increase the fully drawn borrowing costs from LIBOR plus 35 basis points to a new rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points. A ratings downgrade could also adversely impact our ability to economically access debt markets in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we were not aware of any potential ratings downgrades being contemplated by the rating agencies. Capital Expenditures Our 2011 capital expenditures are expected to range from $5.4 billion to $6.0 billion. To a certain degree, the ultimate timing of these capital expenditures is within our control. Therefore, if commodity prices fluctuate from current estimates, we could choose to defer a portion of these planned 2011 capital expenditures until later periods, or accelerate capital expenditures planned for periods beyond 2011 to achieve the desired balance between sources and uses of liquidity. Based upon current price expectations for 2011, our existing commodity hedging contracts, available cash balances and credit availability, we anticipate having adequate capital resources to fund our 2011 capital expenditures. Common Stock Repurchase Program As a result of the success we have experienced with our offshore divestiture program, we announced a share repurchase program in May 2010. The program authorizes the repurchase of up to $3.5 billion of our common shares and expires December 31, 2011. As of February 10, 2011, we had repurchased $1.6 billion, or 23.5 million of our shares at an average price of $69.60. We will continue to use proceeds from our offshore divestiture program in 2011 to fund our repurchase program. Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010, is provided in the following table. Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) North American Onshore: Purchase obligations(1) $ 7,710 $ 551 $ 1,471 $ 1,568 $ 4,120 Debt(2) 5,628 1,812 9 582 3,225 Interest expense(3) 4,645 392 544 502 3,207 Drilling and facility obligations(4) 1,163 747 410 6 Firm transportation agreements(5) 1,734 282 487 408 557 Asset retirement obligations(6) 1,497 74 102 110 1,211 Lease obligations(7) 489 58 104 77 250 Other(8) 389 59 141 156 33 Total North America Onshore 23,255 3,975 3,268 3,409 12,603 Offshore: Drilling and facility obligations(4) 595 314 281 Asset retirement obligations(6) 24 24 Lease obligations(7) 111 38 58 15 Total Offshore 730 352 339 39 Grand Total $ 23,985 $ 4,327 $ 3,607 $ 3,448 $ 12,603 59 Table of Contents (1) Purchase obligation amounts represent contractual commitments to purchase condensate at market prices for use at our heavy oil projects in Canada. We have entered into these agreements because the condensate is an integral part of the heavy oil production process and any disruption in our ability to obtain condensate could negatively affect our ability to produce and transport heavy oil at these locations. Our total obligation related to condensate purchases expires in 2021. This value of the obligation in the table above is based on the contractual volumes and our internal estimate of future condensate market prices. (2) Debt amounts represent scheduled maturities of our debt obligations at December 31, 2010, excluding $2 million of net premiums included in the carrying value of debt. (3) Interest expense relates to our fixed rate debt and represents the scheduled cash payments. We had no variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2010. (4) Drilling and facility obligations represent contractual agreements with third party service providers to procure drilling rigs and other related services for developmental and exploratory drilling and facilities construction. Our offshore commitment primarily relates to a long term contract for a deepwater drilling rig being used in Brazil. Our lease and remaining commitments for this rig will be assumed by the buyer of our assets in Brazil when the associated divestiture transaction closes. (5) Firm transportation agreements represent ship or pay arrangements whereby we have committed to ship certain volumes of oil, gas and NGLs for a fixed transportation fee. We have entered into these agreements to aid the movement of our production to market. We expect to have sufficient production to utilize these transportation services. (6) Asset retirement obligations represent estimated discounted costs for future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation costs. These obligations are recorded as liabilities on our December 31, 2010 balance sheet. (7) Lease obligations for our North America onshore operations consist primarily of non cancelable leases for office space and equipment used in our daily operations. Lease obligations for our offshore operations consist primarily of an FPSO in Brazil. The Polvo FPSO lease term expires in 2014. Our lease and remaining commitments for this FPSO will be assumed by the buyer of our assets in Brazil when the associated divestiture transaction closes. (8) These amounts include $193 million related to uncertain tax positions. Expected pension funding obligations have not been included in this table, but are presented and discussed in the section immediately below. Pension Funding and Estimates Funded Status As compared to the projected benefit obligation, our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $492 million and $448 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A detailed reconciliation of the 2010 changes to our underfunded status is in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Of the $492 million underfunded status at the end of 2010, $198 million is attributable to various nonqualified defined benefit plans that have no plan assets. However, we have established certain trusts to fund the benefit obligations of such nonqualified plans. As of December 31, 2010, these trusts had investments with a fair value of $36 million. The value of these trusts is in noncurrent other assets in our consolidated balance sheets included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. As compared to the accumulated benefit obligation, our qualified defined benefit plans were underfunded by $218 million at December 31, 2010. The accumulated benefit obligation differs from the projected benefit obligation in that the former includes no assumption about future compensation levels. Our funding policy regarding the qualified defined benefit plans is to contribute the amounts necessary for the plans assets to approximately equal the present value of benefits earned by the participants, as calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Protection Act. While we did have investment gains in 2010 and 2009, the investment losses experienced during 2008 significantly reduced the value of our 60 Table of Contents plans assets. We estimate we will contribute approximately $84 million to our qualified pension plans during 2011. However, actual contributions may be different than this amount. Our funding policy regarding the nonqualified defined benefit plans is to supplement as needed the amounts accumulated in the related trusts with available cash and cash equivalents. Pension Estimate Assumptions Our pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods and is impacted by funding decisions or requirements. We recognized expense for our defined benefit pension plans of $85 million, $119 million and $61 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We estimate that our pension expense will approximate $91 million in 2011. Should our actual 2011 contributions to qualified and nonqualified plans vary significantly from our current estimate of $93 million, our actual 2011 pension expense could vary from this estimate. The calculation of pension expense and pension liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and actual experience can differ from the assumptions. We believe that the two most critical assumptions affecting pension expense and liabilities are the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. We assumed that our plan assets would generate a long term weighted average rate of return of 6.94% and 7.18% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We developed these expected long term rate of return assumptions by evaluating input from external consultants and economists as well as long term inflation assumptions. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets is based on a target allocation of investment types in such assets. At December 31, 2010, the target allocations for plan assets were 47.5% for equity securities, 40% for fixed income securities and 12.5% for other investment types. Equity securities consist of investments in large capitalization and small capitalization companies, both domestic and international. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of investment grade companies from diverse industries, United States Treasury obligations and asset backed securities. Other investment types include short term investment funds and a hedge fund of funds. We expect our long term asset allocation on average to approximate the targeted allocation. We regularly review our actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance the investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on plan assets decreases. A decrease in our long term rate of return assumption of 100 basis points would increase the expected 2011 pension expense by $6 million. We discounted our future pension obligations using a weighted average rate of 5.50% and 6.00% at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The discount rate is determined at the end of each year based on the rate at which obligations could be effectively settled, considering the expected timing of future cash flows related to the plans. This rate is based on high quality bond yields, after allowing for call and default risk. High quality corporate bond yield indices are considered when selecting the discount rate. The pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 25 basis points would increase our pension liability at December 31, 2010, by $37 million, and increase estimated 2011 pension expense by $5 million. At December 31, 2010, we had net actuarial losses of $357 million, which will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years. These losses are primarily due to investment losses on plan assets in 2008, reductions in the discount rate since 2001 and increases in participant wages. We estimate that approximately $32 million and $26 million of the unrecognized actuarial losses will be included in pension expense in 2011 and 2012, respectively. The $32 million estimated to be recognized in 2011 is a component of the total estimated 2011 pension expense of $91 million referred to earlier in this section. Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our defined benefit pension plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. 61 Table of Contents Contingencies and Legal Matters For a detailed discussion of contingencies and legal matters, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from these estimates, and changes in these estimates are recorded when known. The critical accounting policies used by management in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. Our critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates related to those policies are described below. We have reviewed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Full Cost Method of Accounting and Proved Reserves Policy Description We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. Under this method all costs associated with property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized, including our internal costs that can be directly identified with such activities. Capitalized costs are depleted on an equivalent unit of production method, converting gas to oil at the ratio of six thousand cubic feet of gas to one barrel of oil. Depletion is calculated using the capitalized costs, including estimated asset retirement costs, plus the estimated future expenditures to be incurred in developing proved reserves, net of estimated salvage values. Costs associated with unproved properties are excluded from the depletion calculation until it is determined whether or not proved reserves can be assigned to such properties. The full cost method subjects companies to quarterly calculations of a ceiling, or limitation on the amount of properties that can be capitalized on the balance sheet. The ceiling limitation is the discounted estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, excluding future cash outflows associated with settling asset retirement obligations included in the net book value of oil and gas properties, plus the cost of properties not subject to amortization. If our net book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes, is in excess of the calculated ceiling, the excess must be written off as an expense. The ceiling limitation is imposed separately for each country in which we have oil and gas properties. An expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher oil and gas prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. Judgments and Assumptions Our estimates of proved reserves are a major component of the depletion and full cost ceiling calculations. Additionally, our proved reserves represent the element of these calculations that require the most subjective judgments. Estimates of reserves are forecasts based on engineering data, projected future rates of production and the timing of future expenditures. The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves requires substantial judgment, resulting in imprecise determinations, particularly for new discoveries. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities based on the same data. Certain of our reserve estimates are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants, while other reserve estimates are prepared by our engineers. See Note 22 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of the amount of our reserves that are prepared or audited by outside petroleum consultants. The passage of time provides more qualitative information regarding estimates of reserves, when revisions are made to prior estimates to reflect updated information. In the past five years, annual performance revisions to our reserve estimates, which have been both increases and decreases in individual years, have averaged less 62 Table of Contents than 2% of the previous years estimate. However, there can be no assurance that more significant revisions will not be necessary in the future. The data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. While the quantities of proved reserves require substantial judgment, the associated prices of oil, gas and NGL reserves, and the applicable discount rate, that are used to calculate the discounted present value of the reserves do not require judgment. The ceiling calculation dictates that a 10% discount factor be used and future net revenues are calculated using prices that represent the average of the first day of the month price for the 12 month period prior to the end of each quarterly period. Therefore, the future net revenues associated with the estimated proved reserves are not based on our assessment of future prices or costs. In calculating the ceiling, we adjust the end of period price by the effect of derivative contracts in place that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. This adjustment requires little judgment as the calculated average price is adjusted using the contract prices for such hedges. None of our outstanding derivative contracts at December 31, 2010 qualified for hedge accounting treatment. Because the ceiling calculation dictates the use of prices that are not representative of future prices and requires a 10% discount factor, the resulting value is not indicative of the true fair value of the reserves. Oil and gas prices have historically been cyclical and, for any particular 12 month period, can be either higher or lower than our long term price forecast, which is a more appropriate input for estimating fair value. Therefore, oil and gas property writedowns that result from applying the full cost ceiling limitation, and that are caused by fluctuations in price as opposed to reductions to the underlying quantities of reserves, should not be viewed as absolute indicators of a reduction of the ultimate value of the related reserves. Because of the volatile nature of oil and gas prices, it is not possible to predict the timing or magnitude of full cost writedowns. In addition, due to the inter relationship of the various judgments made to estimate proved reserves, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates. However, decreases in estimates of proved reserves would generally increase our depletion rate and, thus, our depletion expense. Decreases in our proved reserves may also increase the likelihood of recognizing a full cost ceiling writedown. Derivative Financial Instruments Policy Description We periodically enter into derivative financial instruments with respect to a portion of our oil, gas and NGL production that hedge the future prices received. These instruments are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to commodity price volatility. Our commodity derivative financial instruments include financial price swaps, basis swaps, costless price collars and call options. Additionally, we periodically enter into interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. Under the terms of certain of our interest rate swaps, we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate on a total notional amount. The remainder of our swaps represent forward starting swaps, under which we will pay a fixed rate and receive a floating rate on a total notional amount. All derivative financial instruments are recognized at their current fair value as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments are recorded in the statement of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. For derivative financial instruments held during 2010, 2009 and 2008, we chose not to meet the necessary criteria to qualify our derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting treatment. Cash settlements with counterparties to our derivative financial instruments also increase or decrease earnings at the time of the settlement. Judgments and Assumptions The estimates of the fair values of our derivative instruments require substantial judgment. We estimate the fair values of our commodity derivative financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future 63 Table of Contents commodity prices. We base our estimate of future prices upon published forward commodity price curves such as the Inside FERC Henry Hub forward curve for gas instruments and the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate forward curve for oil instruments. Another key input to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of volatility for these forward curves, which we base primarily upon implied volatility. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted primarily using United States Treasury bill rates. These pricing and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward prices and regional price differentials. We estimate the fair values of our interest rate swap financial instruments primarily by using internal discounted cash flow calculations based upon forward interest rate yields. The most significant variable to our cash flow calculations is our estimate of future interest rate yields. We base our estimate of future yields upon our own internal model that utilizes forward curves such as the LIBOR or the Federal Funds Rate provided by third parties. The resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the lives of the contracts are discounted using the LIBOR and money market futures rates. These yield and discounting variables are sensitive to the period of the contract and market volatility as well as changes in forward interest rate yields. We periodically validate our valuation techniques by comparing our internally generated fair value estimates with those obtained from contract counterparties and or brokers. In spite of the recent turmoil in the financial markets, counterparty credit risk has not had a significant effect on our cash flow calculations and derivative valuations. This is primarily the result of two factors. First, we have mitigated our exposure to any single counterparty by contracting with numerous counterparties. Our commodity derivative contracts are held with thirteen separate counterparties, and our interest rate derivative contracts are held with seven separate counterparties. Second, our derivative contracts generally require cash collateral to be posted if either our or the counterpartys credit rating falls below investment grade. The mark to market exposure threshold for collateral posting decreases as the debt rating falls further below investment grade. Such thresholds generally range from zero to $50 million for the majority of our contracts. As of December 31, 2010, the credit ratings of all our counterparties were investment grade. Because we have chosen not to qualify our derivatives for hedge accounting treatment, changes in the fair values of derivatives can have a significant impact on our results of operations. Generally, changes in derivative fair values will not impact our liquidity or capital resources. Settlements of derivative instruments, regardless of whether they qualify for hedge accounting, do have an impact on our liquidity and results of operations. Generally, if actual market prices are higher than the price of the derivative instruments, our net earnings and cash flow from operations will be lower relative to the results that would have occurred absent these instruments. The opposite is also true. Additional information regarding the effects that changes in market prices can have on our derivative financial instruments, net earnings and cash flow from operations is included in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Goodwill Policy Description Accounting for the acquisition of a business requires the allocation of the purchase price to the tangible and intangible net assets acquired with any excess recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to assigned reporting units. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated and compared to the net book value of the reporting unit. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the net book value, including goodwill, then the goodwill is written down to the implied fair value of the goodwill through a charge to expense. Judgments and Assumptions The annual impairment test, which we conduct as of October 31 each year, requires us to estimate the fair values of our own assets and liabilities. Because quoted market prices are not available for our reporting 64 Table of Contents units, we must estimate the fair values to conduct the goodwill impairment test. The most significant judgments involved in estimating the fair values of our reporting units relate to the valuation of our property and equipment. We develop estimated fair values of our property and equipment by performing various quantitative analyses based upon information related to comparable companies, comparable transactions and premiums paid. In our comparable companies analysis, we review the public stock market trading multiples for selected publicly traded independent exploration and production companies with financial and operating characteristics that are comparable to our respective reporting units. Such characteristics are market capitalization, location of proved reserves and the characterization of the reserves. In our comparable transactions analysis, we review certain acquisition multiples for selected independent exploration and production company transactions and oil and gas asset packages announced recently. In our premiums paid analysis, we use a sample of selected independent exploration and production company transactions in addition to selected transactions of all publicly traded companies announced recently, to review the premiums paid to the price of the target one day and one month prior to the announcement of the transaction. We use this information to determine the mean and median premiums paid. We then use the comparable company multiples, comparable transaction multiples, transaction premiums and other data to develop valuation estimates of our property and equipment. We also use market and other data to develop valuation estimates of the other assets and liabilities included in our reporting units. At October 31, 2010, the date of our last impairment test, the fair values of our United States and Canadian reporting units substantially exceeded their related carrying values. A lower goodwill value decreases the likelihood of an impairment charge. However, unfavorable changes in reserves or in our price forecast would increase the likelihood of a goodwill impairment charge. A goodwill impairment charge would have no effect on liquidity or capital resources. However, it would adversely affect our results of operations in that period. Due to the inter relationship of the various estimates involved in assessing goodwill for impairment, it is impractical to provide quantitative analyses of the effects of potential changes in these estimates, other than to note the historical average changes in our reserve estimates previously set forth. Income Taxes Policy Description We are required to estimate federal, state, provincial and foreign income taxes for each jurisdiction in which we operate. This process involves estimating the actual current tax exposure together with assessing future tax consequences resulting in deferred income taxes. We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for the future tax benefits attributable to the expected utilization of existing tax net operating loss carryforwards and other types of carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Judgments and Assumptions The amount of income taxes recorded requires interpretations of complex rules and regulations of federal, state, provincial and foreign tax jurisdictions. We recognize current tax expense based on estimated taxable income for the current period applied at the applicable statutory tax rates. We routinely assess potential uncertain tax positions and, if required, estimate and establish accruals for such amounts. We have recognized deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences, operating losses and other tax carryforwards. We routinely assess our deferred tax assets and reduce such assets by a valuation allowance if we deem it is more 65 Table of Contents likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The accruals for deferred tax assets and liabilities are subject to a significant amount of judgment by management and are reviewed and adjusted routinely based on changes in facts and circumstances. Material changes in these accruals may occur in the future, based on the progress of ongoing tax audits, changes in legislation and resolution of pending tax matters. Forward Looking Estimates We are providing our 2011 forward looking estimates in this section. These estimates were based on our examination of historical operating trends, the information used to prepare our December 31, 2010, reserve reports and other data in our possession or available from third parties. The forward looking estimates in this report were prepared assuming demand, curtailment, producibility and general market conditions for our oil, gas and NGLs during 2011 will be similar to 2010, unless otherwise noted. We make reference to the Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this report. Amounts related to our Canadian operations have been converted to U.S. dollars using an estimated average 2011 exchange rate of $0.95 dollar to $1.00 Canadian dollar. During 2011, our operations are substantially comprised of our ongoing North America Onshore operations. We also have International operations in Brazil and Angola that we are divesting. We have entered into agreements to sell our assets in Brazil for $3.2 billion and our assets in Angola for $70 million, plus contingent consideration. As a result of these divestitures, all revenues, expenses and capital related to our International operations are reported as discontinued operations in our financial statements. Additionally, all forward looking estimates in this document exclude amounts related to our International operations, unless otherwise noted. North America Onshore Operating Items The following 2011 estimates relate only to our North America Onshore assets. Oil, Gas and NGL Production Set forth below are our estimates of oil, gas and NGL production for 2011. We estimate that our combined oil, gas and NGL production will total approximately 236 to 240 MMBoe. Oil Gas NGLs Total (MMBbls) (Bcf) (MMBbls) (MMBoe) U.S. Onshore 17 736 34 174 Canada 28 199 3 64 North America Onshore 45 935 37 238 Oil and Gas Prices We expect our 2011 average prices for the oil and gas production from each of our operating areas to differ from the NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The expected ranges for prices are exclusive of the anticipated effects of the financial contracts presented in the Commodity Price Risk Management section below. The NYMEX price for oil is determined using the monthly average of settled prices on each trading day for benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude oil delivered at Cushing, Oklahoma. The NYMEX price for gas is determined using the first of month South Louisiana Henry Hub price index as published monthly in Inside FERC. 66 Table of Contents Expected Range of Prices as a % of NYMEX Price Oil Gas U.S. Onshore 89% to 99% 80% to 90% Canada 63% to 73% 82% to 92% North America Onshore 73% to 83% 80% to 90% Commodity Price Risk Management From time to time, we enter into NYMEX related financial commodity collar and price swap contracts. Such contracts are used to manage the inherent uncertainty of future revenues due to oil, gas and NGL price volatility. Although these financial contracts do not relate to specific production from our operating areas, they will affect our overall revenues, earnings and cash flow in 2011. As of February 10, 2011, our financial commodity contracts pertaining to 2011 consisted of oil price collars, oil call options, gas price swaps, gas basis swaps and NGL basis swaps. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 730,226 $ 5.49 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 Panhandle Eastern Pipeline 150,000 $ 0.33 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 45,000 $ 75.00 $75.00 $ 75.00 $ 105.00 $116.10 $ 108.89 Oil Call Options Sold Weighted Volume Average Price Period (Bbls /d) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 19,500 $ 95.00 NGL Basis Swaps Pay Natural Receive Volume Gasoline Oil Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 500 $ 70.77 $ 80.52 To the extent that monthly NYMEX prices in 2011 are outside of the ranges established by the collars or differ from those established by the swaps, we and the counterparties to the contracts will cash settle the difference. Such settlements will either increase or decrease our revenues for the period. Also, we will mark to market the contracts based on their fair values throughout 2011. Changes in the contracts fair values will also be recorded as increases or decreases to our revenues. The expected ranges of our realized prices as a percentage of NYMEX prices, which are presented earlier in this report, do not include any estimates of the impact on our prices from monthly settlements or changes in the fair values of our price collars and swaps. 67 Table of Contents Marketing and Midstream Revenues and Expenses Marketing and midstream revenues and expenses are derived primarily from our gas processing plants and gas pipeline systems. These revenues and expenses vary in response to several factors. The factors include, but are not limited to, changes in production and NGL content from wells connected to the pipelines and related processing plants, changes in the absolute and relative prices of gas and NGLs, provisions of contractual agreements and the amount of repair and maintenance activity required to maintain anticipated processing levels and pipeline throughput volumes. These factors increase the uncertainty inherent in estimating future marketing and midstream revenues and expenses. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our 2011 marketing and midstream operating profit will be between $485 million and $535 million. We estimate that marketing and midstream revenues will be between $1.485 billion and $1.760 billion, and marketing and midstream expenses will be between $1.000 billion and $1.225 billion. Production and Operating Expenses These expenses, which include transportation costs, vary in response to several factors. Among the most significant of these factors are additions to or deletions from the property base, changes in the general price level of services and materials that are used in the operation of the properties, as well as the amount of repair and workover activity required. Additionally, lease operating expenses associated with oil production, particularly heavy oil production, are generally higher than operating expenses associated with gas and NGL production. Oil, gas and NGL prices also have an effect on lease operating expenses and impact the economic feasibility of planned workover projects. Given these uncertainties, we expect that our 2011 lease operating expenses will be between $1.78 billion and $1.88 billion. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Our taxes other than income taxes primarily consist of production taxes and ad valorem taxes that relate to our U.S. Onshore properties and are assessed by various government agencies. Production taxes are based on a percentage of production revenues that varies by property and government jurisdiction. Ad valorem taxes generally are based on property values as determined by the government agency assessing the tax. Over time, a certain propertys assessed value will increase or decrease due to changes in commodity sales prices, production volumes and proved reserves. Therefore, ad valorem taxes will generally move in the same direction as our oil, gas and NGL sales but in a less predictable manner compared to production taxes. Additionally, both production and ad valorem taxes will increase or decrease due to changes in the rates assessed by the government agencies. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our taxes other than income taxes for 2011 will be between 5.20% and 6.20% of total oil, gas and NGL sales. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DDA) Our 2011 oil and gas property DDA rate will depend on various factors. Most notable among such factors are the amount of proved reserves that will be added from drilling or acquisition efforts in 2011 compared to the costs incurred for such efforts, revisions to our year end 2010 reserve estimates that, based on prior experience, are likely to be made during 2011, as well as potential carrying value reductions that result from full cost ceiling tests. Given these uncertainties, we estimate that our oil and gas property related DDA rate will be between $7.40 per Boe and $8.00 per Boe. Based on these DDA rates and the production estimates set forth earlier, oil and gas property related DDA expense for 2010 is expected to be between $1.76 billion and $1.90 billion. 68 Table of Contents Additionally, we expect that our depreciation and amortization expense related to non oil and gas fixed assets will total between $265 million and $295 million in 2011. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligation Accretion of asset retirement obligation in 2011 is expected to be between $85 million and $95 million. General and Administrative Expenses (GA) Our GA includes employee compensation and benefits costs and the costs of many different goods and services used in support of our business. GA varies with the level of our operating activities and the related staffing and professional services requirements. In addition, employee compensation and benefits costs vary due to various market factors that affect the level and type of compensation and benefits offered to employees. Also, goods and services are subject to general price level increases or decreases. Therefore, significant variances in any of these factors from current expectations could cause actual GA to vary materially from the estimate. Given these limitations, we estimate our GA for 2011 will be between $590 million and $630 million. This estimate includes approximately $110 million of non cash, share based compensation, net of related capitalization in accordance with the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Interest Expense Future interest rates and debt outstanding have a significant effect on our interest expense. We can only marginally influence the prices we will receive in 2011 from sales of oil, gas and NGLs and the resulting cash flow. This increases the margin of error inherent in estimating future outstanding debt balances and related interest expense. Other factors that affect outstanding debt balances and related interest expense, such as the amount and timing of capital expenditures, are generally within our control. As of December 31, 2010, we had total debt of $5.6 billion, which is exclusively fixed rate debt at an overall weighted average rate of 7.1%. Our debt includes $1.75 billion that is scheduled to mature on September 30, 2011. We also have access to the commercial paper market and our credit lines. Any commercial paper or credit line borrowings would bear interest at variable rates. Based on the factors above, we expect our 2011 interest expense to be between $300 million and $340 million. The estimated interest expense is exclusive of the anticipated effects of the interest rate swap contracts presented in the Interest Rate Risk Management section below. The 2011 interest expense estimate above is comprised of three primary components interest related to outstanding debt, fees and issuance costs and capitalized interest. We expect interest expense in 2011 related to our outstanding debt, including net accretion of related discounts, to be between $380 million and $420 million. We expect interest expense in 2011 related to facility and agency fees, amortization of debt issuance costs and other miscellaneous items not related to outstanding debt balances to be between $5 million and $15 million. During 2011, we also expect to capitalize between $85 million and $95 million of interest, of which $45 to $55 million relates to our continuing oil and gas activities and the remainder relates to certain corporate construction projects and our discontinued operations. Interest Rate Risk Management From time to time, we enter into interest rate swaps. Such contracts are used to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. As of December 31, 2010, our interest rate swaps pertaining to 2011 consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $2.10 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate 69 Table of Contents of 3.92% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 950 3.92 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 Income Taxes Our financial income tax rate in 2011 will vary materially depending on the actual amount of financial pre tax earnings. The tax rate for 2011 will be significantly affected by the proportional share of consolidated pre tax earnings generated by our United States and Canadian operations due to the different tax rates of each country. Also, certain tax deductions and credits will have a fixed impact on 2011 income tax expense regardless of the level of pre tax earnings that are produced. Additionally, significant changes in estimated capital expenditures, production levels of oil, gas and NGLs, the prices of such products, marketing and midstream revenues, or any of the various expense items could materially alter the effect of these tax deductions and credits on 2011 financial income tax rates. Given the uncertainty of pre tax earnings, we expect that our total financial income tax rate in 2011 will be between 20% and 40%. The current income tax rate is expected to be between 0% and 10%. The deferred income tax rate is expected to be between 20% and 30%. Capital Resources, Uses and Liquidity North America Onshore Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures budget is based on an expected range of future oil, gas and NGL prices as well as the expected costs of the capital additions. Should actual prices received differ materially from our price expectations for our future production, some projects may be accelerated or deferred and, consequently, may increase or decrease total 2011 capital expenditures. In addition, if the actual material or labor costs of the budgeted items vary significantly from the anticipated amounts, actual capital expenditures could vary materially from our estimates. Given the limitations discussed above, we estimate that our 2011 oil and gas development and exploration capital expenditures will be between $4.500 billion and $4.900 billion. We estimate that our development capital will be between $3.875 billion and $4.175 billion. Development capital includes activity related to reserves classified as proved and drilling that does not offset currently productive units and for which there is not a certainty of continued production from a known productive formation. Development capital also includes estimates for plugging and abandonment charges. We estimate that our exploration capital will be between $625 million and $725 million. Exploration capital includes exploratory drilling to find and produce oil or gas in previously untested fault blocks or new reservoirs. Exploration capital also includes purchases of proved and unproved leasehold acreage. In addition to the development and exploration expenditures, we expect to 70 Table of Contents capitalize between $330 million and $350 million of GA expenses and between $45 million and $55 million of interest related to our oil and gas activities. In addition, we expect to spend between $225 million and $300 million on our midstream assets, which primarily include our oil pipelines, gas processing plants, and gas gathering and pipeline systems. We also expect total capital for corporate activities will be between $300 million and $395 million, including approximately $30 million of capitalized interest related to certain construction projects. Other Cash Uses In May 2010, our Board of Directors approved a $3.5 billion share repurchase program. This program expires on December 31, 2011. Through February 10, 2011, we had repurchased 23.5 million common shares for $1.6 billion, or $69.60 per share. Our management expects the policy of paying a quarterly common stock dividend to continue. With the current $0.16 per share quarterly dividend rate and expected share repurchases, 2011 dividends are expected to approximate $264 million. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our estimated 2011 cash uses, including our capital activities, are expected to be funded primarily through a combination of our existing cash balances and operating cash flow, supplemented with commercial paper borrowings. At the beginning of 2011, we held $3.4 billion in cash and short term investments. The amount of operating cash flow to be generated during 2011 is uncertain due to the factors affecting revenues and expenses as previously cited. However, if our operating cash flow were significantly less than our estimates, we would access the commercial paper market. Also, we have credit lines that we could access if deemed necessary. As of February 10, 2011, we had $2.0 billion of available credit under our credit lines. Another major source of liquidity in 2011 will be the proceeds from the divestiture of our assets in Brazil and, to a lesser extent, the divestiture of our assets in Angola. These sources of liquidity will allow us to continue repurchasing common shares and investing in the opportunities that exist across our North America Onshore portfolio of properties. We expect our combined capital resources to be adequate to fund our anticipated capital expenditures and other cash uses for 2011. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to our risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The following disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than speculative trading. Commodity Price Risk Our major market risk exposure is in the pricing applicable to our oil, gas and NGL production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to our U.S. and Canadian gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil, gas and NGL production has been volatile and unpredictable for several years. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Consequently, we periodically enter into financial hedging activities with respect to a portion of our oil, gas and NGL production through various financial transactions that hedge the future prices received. These transactions include financial price swaps, basis swaps and costless price collars. Additionally, to facilitate a portion of our price swaps, we have sold gas 71 Table of Contents call options for 2012 and oil call options for 2011 and 2012. The key terms of our derivatives in place as of December 31, 2010 are presented in the following tables. Gas Price Swaps Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 712,500 $ 5.51 Gas Basis Swaps Weighted Average Differential to Volume Henry Hub Period Index (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2011 Panhandle Eastern Pipeline 150,000 $ 0.33 Gas Call Options Sold Weighted Volume Average Price Period (MMBtu/d) ($/MMBtu) Total year 2012 487,500 $ 6.00 Oil Price Collars Floor Price Ceiling Price Weighted Weighted Volume Floor Range Average Price Ceiling Range Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 45,000 $ 75.00 $75.00 $ 75.00 $ 105.00 $116.10 $ 108.89 Oil Call Options Sold Weighted Volume Average Price Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 19,500 $ 95.00 Total year 2012 19,500 $ 95.00 NGL Basis Swaps Pay Natural Receive Volume Gasoline Oil Period (Bbls/d) ($/Bbl) ($/Bbl) Total year 2011 500 $ 70.77 $ 80.52 Total year 2012 500 $ 71.82 $ 81.92 The fair values of our commodity derivatives presented in the tables above are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the relevant price indices. At December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our gas derivative instruments would have decreased the fair value of such instruments by approximately $154 million. A 10% increase in the forward curves associated with our oil derivative instruments would have decreased the fair value of these instruments by approximately $142 million. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2010, we had debt outstanding of $5.6 billion with fixed rates averaging 7.1%. As of December 31, 2010, our interest rate swaps consisted of instruments with a total notional amount of $2.1 billion. These consist of instruments with a notional amount of $1.15 billion in which we receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate. The remaining instruments consist of forward starting swaps. Under the terms of the forward starting swaps, we will net settle these contracts in September 2011, or sooner should we 72 Table of Contents elect. The net settlement amount will be based upon us paying a weighted average fixed rate of 3.92% and receiving a floating rate that is based upon the three month LIBOR. The difference between the fixed and floating rate will be applied to the notional amount for the 30 year period from September 30, 2011 to September 30, 2041. The key terms of these contracts are presented in the following tables. Fixed to Floating Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Received Rate Paid Expiration (In millions) $ 300 4.30 % Six month LIBOR July 18, 2011 100 1.90 % Federal funds rate August 3, 2012 500 3.90 % Federal funds rate July 18, 2013 250 3.85 % Federal funds rate July 22, 2013 $ 1,150 3.82 % Forward Starting Swaps Fixed Rate Variable Notional Paid Rate Received Expiration (In millions) $ 950 3.92 % Three month LIBOR September 30, 2011 The fair values of our interest rate instruments are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the Federal Funds rate and LIBOR. At December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in these forward curves would have increased the fair value of our interest rate swaps by approximately $68 million. Foreign Currency Risk Our net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our Canadian subsidiaries are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the Canadian dollar functional currency. Assets and liabilities of the Canadian subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of a reporting period. Revenues, expenses and cash flow are translated using the average exchange rate during the reporting period. A 10% unfavorable change in the Canadian to U.S. dollar exchange rate would not materially impact our December 31, 2010 balance sheet. 73 Table of Contents 
 
