FILE:TSN/TSN-8K-20070803114446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): August 2, 2007
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Delaware
(State of incorporation or organization)
 
001-14704
(Commission File Number)
 
71-0225165
(IRS Employer Identification No.)
 
2210 West Oaklawn Drive, Springdale, AR 72762-6999
(479) 290-4000
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of
Registrant's principal executive offices)
 
Not applicable
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if applicable)
 
___________________________________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
Effective August 2, 2007, the Board of Directors of Tyson Foods, Inc. ("Tyson") appointed Kevin M. McNamara as a member of the Tyson Board of Directors. Mr. McNamara was also appointed to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
The full text of the press release issued in connection with the appointment of Mr. McNamara to the Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
Current Report On Form 8-K
Dated August 2, 2007
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Tyson Adds Sixth Independent Board Member
HealthSpring, Inc. CFO Becomes Newest Director
Springdale, Arkansas  August 2, 2007  A senior executive at one of the nation's largest managed care organizations has been named to the board of directors of Tyson Foods, Inc. (NYSE:  TSN), company officials announced today.
Kevin McNamara, who is executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer of Nashville-based HealthSpring, Inc., becomes Tyson's 11 director and sixth independent or outside member of the board.  He has also been appointed to serve on the board's audit committee.
th
"We believe Kevin is a tremendous addition to our board, especially given his financial background and extensive experience in the health care industry," said Tyson Chairman John Tyson.  "I look forward to his participation on the board."
McNamara, who is 51 years old, has been in his current position with HealthSpring since April 2005.  He previously served as chief financial officer of HCCA International, Inc., a healthcare management and recruiting company, and as chief executive officer and director of Private Business, Inc., a provider of electronic commerce solutions to community banks.  He was also senior vice president and chief financial officer of Envoy Corporation, a provider of electronic transactions processing services to the healthcare industry.
McNamara is a certified public accountant (inactive) and holds a degree in accounting from Virginia Commonweath University and a master's degree in business administration from the University of Richmond.
Tyson Foods, Inc. [NYSE: TSN], founded in 1935 with headquarters in Springdale, Arkansas, is the world's largest processor and marketer of chicken, beef, and pork, the second-largest food production company in the Fortune 500 and a member of the S&P 500. The company produces a wide variety of protein-based and prepared food products and is the recognized market leader in the retail and foodservice markets it serves. Tyson provides products and service to customers throughout the United States and more than 80 countries. The company has approximately 104,000 Team Members employed at more than 300 facilities and offices in the United States and around the world. Through its Core Values, Code of Conduct and Team Member Bill of Rights, Tyson strives to operate with integrity and trust and is committed to creating value for its shareholders, customers and Team Members. The company also strives to be faith-friendly, provide a safe work environment and serve as stewards of the animals, land and environment entrusted to it.
####
CONTACTS
 
News Media:  Gary Mickelson 479-290-6111
Investor Relations:  Ruth Ann Wisener 479-290-4235
 
 
 


