FILE:TSN/TSN-8K-20080915173018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class A Common Stock and Convertible Senior Notes
On September 15, 2008, Tyson Foods, Inc. (the "Company") completed a registered underwritten public offering of $450 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.25% convertible senior notes due 2013 (the "Notes") pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement (the "Notes Underwriting Agreement"), dated September 9, 2008, among the Company and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and the other underwriters named therein. The underwriters may also purchase up to $67.5 million aggregate principal amount of Notes at the public offering price, less the underwriting discounts and commissions, to cover over-allotments, if any. In addition, on September 15, 2008, the Company also completed a registered underwritten public offering of 20,000,000 shares of its Class A common stock (the "Shares") at a public offering price of $12.75 per share pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement (the "Shares Underwriting Agreement"), dated September 9, 2008, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and the other underwriters named therein. The underwriters may also purchase up to 3,000,000 Shares at the public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions, to cover over-allotments, if any.
The sale of the Shares and Notes was made pursuant to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-132434), including prospectus supplements each dated September 9, 2008 (each a "Prospectus Supplement") to the prospectus contained therein dated September 4, 2008, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The Company issued the Notes under an indenture dated as of June 1, 1995 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated as of September 15, 2008 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), each among the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.)), as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture (including the form of Notes) are filed as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, to this report and are incorporated herein by reference. Terms of the Indenture and the Notes issued pursuant to the Indenture are described in the section of the Prospectus Supplement relating to the Notes entitled "Description of notes", which is incorporated herein by reference. The following description of the Notes and the Indenture is a summary and is not meant to be a complete description of the Notes and the Indenture. This description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the detailed provisions of the Indenture.
The Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.25% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, beginning on April 15, 2009. The Notes will mature on October 15, 2013, unless earlier repurchased by the Company or converted.
The Notes are convertible in certain circumstances and during certain periods (as described in the Supplemental Indenture) at an initial conversion rate of 59.1935 shares of Class A common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $16.89 per share), subject to adjustment in certain circumstances as set forth in the Supplemental Indenture. The initial conversion price represents a conversion premium of 32.5% over the public offering price in the Class A common stock offering of $12.75 per share. The Notes are convertible under certain circumstances and during certain periods into (i) cash, up to the aggregate principal amount of the Notes subject to conversion and (ii) the Company's Class A common stock in respect of the remainder (if any) of the Company's conversion obligation.
Upon a fundamental change (as described in Section 3.01 of the Supplemental Indenture), holders may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. The Notes are not redeemable at the Company's option prior to maturity.
The Indenture contains customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may declare the unpaid principal of the Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest thereon immediately due and payable. In the case of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization relating to the Company, the principal amount of the securities together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon will automatically become and be immediately due and payable.
In connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of the Shares and the Notes as described in response to Item 1.01 of this Current Report, the following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference into the Company's Registration Statement (Registration No. 333-132434) relating to the Notes offering and the Shares offering: (i) the Notes Underwriting Agreement (Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report), (ii) the Shares Underwriting Agreement (Exhibit 1.2 to this Current Report), (iii) the Supplemental Indenture (Exhibit 4.2 to this Current Report) and (iv) the updated legal opinion of Sidley Austin LLP (Exhibit 5.1 to this Current Report).
Convertible Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions
On September 9, 2008, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the "Note Hedge Transactions") and warrant transactions (the "Warrant Transactions") with affiliates of the representatives of the underwriters of the Notes. The Note Hedge Transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversion of the Notes by providing the Company with the option, subject to certain exceptions, to acquire shares of Class A common stock upon settlement of conversion of the Notes. However, the Warrant Transactions will result in dilution to the extent that the market value of the Class A common stock, as measured during the measurement period at maturity under the terms of the warrants, exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, which is initially $22.31 per share, subject to customary adjustments. The Company paid a premium of approximately $92.0 million for the Note Hedge Transactions and received a premium of approximately $43.6 million for the Warrant Transactions, for a net cost of approximately $48.4 million.
Pursuant to the Note Hedge Transactions, if the Company notifies the counterparties of any conversion of the Notes, the counterparties are required to deliver to the Company, in most circumstances, the number of shares of Class A common stock that the Company is obligated to deliver to the holders of the Notes with respect to the conversion.
The warrants issued pursuant to the Warrant Transaction cover an aggregate of 26,637,075 shares of Class A common stock and have an initial exercise price of $22.31 per share, subject to customary adjustments. The warrants expire over a period of sixty trading days beginning on January 15, 2014 and are European-style warrants (exercisable only upon expiration). For each warrant that is exercised, the Company will deliver to the counterparties a number of shares of Class A common stock equal to the amount by which the settlement price exceeds the exercise price, divided by the settlement price, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares.
The counterparties to the Note Hedge Transactions and the Warrant Transactions have advised Tyson that they or their respective affiliates entered into various derivative transactions with respect to Tyson's Class A common stock shortly after the pricing of the Notes. In addition, the counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to Tyson's Class A common stock or by selling or purchasing Tyson's Class A common stock in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the Notes and are likely to do so during any observation period related to the conversion of the Notes. These transactions could adversely affect the market price of Tyson's Class A common stock and of the Notes, could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the price of Tyson's Class A common stock and could, under certain circumstances, affect noteholders' ability to convert the Notes.
The warrants issued pursuant to the Warrant Transactions were exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act because the offer and sale did not involve a public offering. There were no underwriting commissions or discounts in connection with the sale of the warrants.
The summary of each of the Note Hedge Transactions and each of the Warrant Transactions is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the related agreements, which are included as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5 and 10.6 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information required by Item 2.03 relating to the Notes and the Indenture is contained in Item 1.01 above and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information required by Item 3.02 relating to the Hedge and Warrant Transactions is contained in Item 1.01 under the section "Convertible Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions" and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
Dated: September 9, 2008
 
 
 
September 9, 2008
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
277 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10172
MERRILL LYNCH & CO.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
4 World Financial Center
New York, New York 10080
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Tyson Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), confirms its agreement (this "Agreement") with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("J.P. Morgan") and Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch") and each of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Underwriters," which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 10 hereof), for whom J.P. Morgan and Merrill Lynch are acting as representatives (in such capacity, the "Representatives"), with respect to the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective principal amounts set forth in Schedule A hereto of $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the "Convertible Securities"), and with respect to the grant by the Company to the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the option described in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any part of an additional $67,500,000 principal amount of Convertible Securities to cover over-allotments, if any. The aforesaid $450,000,000 principal amount of Convertible Securities (the "Initial Securities") to be purchased by the Underwriters and all or any part of the $67,500,000 principal amount of Convertible Securities subject to the option described in Section 2(b) hereof (the "Option Securities") are hereinafter called, collectively, the "Securities." The Securities are to be issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of June 1, 1995 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated as of September 15, 2008 (the "Supplemental Indenture") relating to the Securities. The Base Indenture as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture is hereinafter referred to as the "Indenture."
 
The Securities are convertible into shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock") in accordance with the terms of the Securities and the Indenture, at the initial conversion rate specified in the Final Term Sheet (as defined below), under the circumstances and subject to adjustment as set forth in the Indenture. In connection with the offering of the Securities, the Company and affiliates of the Representatives are entering into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions (the "Call Spread Transactions") pursuant to the convertible note hedge confirmations and the warrant confirmations between the Company and each of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc., dated the date hereof (the "Call Spread Documentation").
Concurrently with the offering and sale of the Securities by the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Company is offering, in an offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act") and by means of a prospectus supplement, up to 20,000,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock (the "Common Stock Offering"). The Representatives are acting as representatives of the underwriters (collectively, the "Common Stock Underwriters") in the Common Stock Offering. The Company has granted the Common Stock Underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock to cover over-allotments, if any. The Company and the Common Stock Underwriters will be entering into an underwriting agreement with respect to the Common Stock Offering.
The Company understands that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Securities as soon as the Representatives deem advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered.
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-132434), including the related preliminary prospectus or prospectuses, which registration statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the rules and regulations of the Commission (the "1933 Act Regulations") under the 1933 Act. Such registration statement as amended, including by the Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 thereto, covers the registration of the Securities and the Common Stock under the 1933 Act. Promptly after execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Company will prepare and file a prospectus in accordance with the provisions of Rule 430B ("Rule 430B") of the 1933 Act Regulations and paragraph (b) of Rule 424 ("Rule 424(b)") of the 1933 Act Regulations. Any information included in such prospectus that was omitted from such registration statement at the time it became effective but that is deemed to be part of and included in such registration statement pursuant to Rule 430B is referred to as "Rule 430B Information." Each prospectus used in connection with the offering of the Securities that omitted Rule 430B Information is herein called a "preliminary prospectus." Such registration statement, at any given time, including the amendments thereto to such time (including by Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 thereto), the exhibits and any schedules thereto at such time, the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at such time and the documents otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or included therein by 1933 Act Regulations, is herein called the "Registration Statement." The Registration Statement at the time it originally became effective is herein called the "Original Registration Statement." The final prospectus in the form first furnished to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, including the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at the time of the execution of this Agreement and any preliminary prospectuses that form a part thereof, is herein called the "Prospectus." For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("EDGAR").
 
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act") which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be.
SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties
(a) . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, the Applicable Time referred to in Section 1(a)(ii) hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(c) hereof, and as of each Date of Delivery (if any) referred to in Section 2(b) hereof, and agrees with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Company
(i) . (A) At the time of filing the Original Registration Statement, (B) at the time of filing the Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 thereto, (C) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the 1933 Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act or form of prospectus), (D) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the 1933 Act Regulations and (E) at the date hereof, the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 405"), including not having been and not being an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, and the Securities, since their registration on the Registration Statement, have been and remain eligible for registration by the Company on a Rule 405 "automatic shelf registration statement". The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations objecting to the use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
Status as a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
At the time of filing the Original Registration Statement, at the earliest time thereafter that the Company or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations) of the Securities and at the date hereof, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
bona fide
(ii) . The Original Registration Statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 462(e)"), and any post-effective amendments thereto, including Post-Effective Amendment No. 1, have also become effective upon filing under Rule 462(e). No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Registration Statement, Prospectus and Disclosure at Time of Sale
 
Any offer that is a written communication relating to the Securities made prior to the filing of the Original Registration Statement by the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this paragraph only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) has been filed with the Commission in accordance with the exemption provided by Rule 163 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 163") and otherwise complied with the requirements of Rule 163, including without limitation the legending requirement, to qualify such offer for the exemption from Section 5(c) of the 1933 Act provided by Rule 163.
At the respective times the Original Registration Statement and each amendment thereto became effective, including Post-Effective Amendment No. 1, at each deemed effective date with respect to the Underwriters pursuant to Rule 430B(f)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations and at the Closing Time (and, if any Option Securities are purchased, at the Date of Delivery), the Registration Statement complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "1939 Act"), and the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1939 Act (the "1939 Act Regulations"), and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto, at the time the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement was issued and at the Closing Time (and, if any Option Securities are purchased, at the Date of Delivery), included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Each preliminary prospectus (including the prospectus or prospectuses filed as part of the Original Registration Statement or any amendment thereto) complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations and each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with this offering was identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T and except for filing fees information.
As of the Applicable Time, neither (x) the Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus(es) (as defined below) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time (as defined below), the Statutory Prospectus (as defined below), the Final Term Sheet (as defined below), all considered together (collectively, the "General Disclosure Package"), nor (y) any individual Issuer Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
As of the time of the filing of the Final Term Sheet, the General Disclosure Package, when considered together with the Final Term Sheet (as defined in Section 3(b)), will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
As used in this subsection and elsewhere in this Agreement:
"Applicable Time" means 6:00 P.M. (Eastern time) on September 9, 2008 or such other time as agreed by the Company and the Representatives.
"Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 433"), relating to the Securities that (i) is required to be filed with the Commission by the Company, including the Final Term Sheet (ii) is a "road show that is a written communication" within the meaning of Rule 433(d)(8)(i), whether or not required to be filed with the Commission or (iii) is exempt from filing pursuant to Rule 433(d)(5)(i) because it contains a description of the Securities or of the offering that does not reflect the final terms, in each case in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
"Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being specified in Schedule C hereto.
"Issuer Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not an Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus.
"Statutory Prospectus" as of any time means the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof.
Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Securities or until any earlier date that the issuer notified or notifies the Representatives as described in Section 3(e), did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified.
The representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
(iii) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations or the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1934 Act Regulations"), as applicable, and, when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, (a) at the time the Original Registration Statement became effective, (b) at the earlier of the time the Prospectus was first used and the Applicable Time and (c) at the Closing Time (and if any Option Securities are purchased, at the Date of Delivery), did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
 
(iv) . Ernst & Young LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are an independent registered public accounting firm as required by the 1933 Act.
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
(v) . The financial statements, and the related notes thereto, included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their consolidated cash flows for the periods specified; said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis, except as described in the notes to such financial statements, and the supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in such Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly the information required to be stated therein.
Financial Statements
(vi) . Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, there has not been any material adverse change, or any development known by the Company (after diligent inquiry) involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the business, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, otherwise than as set forth, incorporated by reference or contemplated in the Prospectus; and except as set forth, incorporated by reference or contemplated in the Prospectus neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement (whether or not in the ordinary course of business) material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
(vii) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the state of its incorporation, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties, or conducts any business, so as to require such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Good Standing of the Company
(viii) . Each of the Company's subsidiaries that constitutes a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the Commission (the "Material Subsidiaries") has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and all the outstanding shares of capital stock of each Material Subsidiary of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully-paid and non-assessable, and (except in the case of foreign subsidiaries, for directors' qualifying shares) are owned by the Company, directly or indirectly, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, security interests and claims.
Good Standing of Subsidiaries
 
(ix) . The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization" (except for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to this Agreement, pursuant to reservations, agreements or employee benefit plans referred to in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or pursuant to the exercise of convertible securities or options referred to in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. The shares of issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable; none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company was issued in violation of the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
Capitalization
(x) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(xi) . The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company, and when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture (assuming due authentication of the Securities by the Trustee) and paid for as provided herein will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture; the Indenture has been duly authorized, is duly qualified under the 1939 Act, has been executed and delivered by the Company and Trustee, and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); and the Securities will conform, and the Indenture conforms, in all material respects, to the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus.
Authorization of the Securities and the Indenture
(xii) . The Common Stock conforms in all material respects to all statements relating thereto contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and such description conforms in all material respects to the rights set forth in the instruments defining the same. Upon issuance and delivery of the Securities in accordance with this Agreement and the Indenture, the Securities will be convertible at the option of the holder thereof for shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the Securities and the Indenture; the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities have been duly authorized and reserved for issuance upon such conversion by all necessary corporate action and such shares, when issued upon such conversion, will be validly issued and will be fully paid and non-assessable; no holder of such shares will be subject to personal liability by reason of being such a holder; and the issuance of such shares upon such conversion will not be subject to the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
Authorization and Description of Common Stock
(xiii) . The Call Spread Documentation has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Authorization of Call Spread Documentation
 
(xiv) . Neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries is, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would be, in violation of or in default under, its Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them or any of their respective properties is bound, except for violations and defaults which individually or in the aggregate are not material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or to the holders of the Securities; the issue and sale of the Securities and the performance by the Company of all of its obligations under the Securities, the Indenture and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions herein and therein contemplated (including the issuance of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities) will not conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is subject, except for conflicts, breaches or defaults that, singly or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, nor will any such action result in any violation of the provisions of (A) the Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Company or (B) any applicable law or statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company, its Material Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties, except, in the case of (B) above, for violations that, singly or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the Securities or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture, except such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as have been obtained under the 1933 Act, the 1939 Act and as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky Laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriter.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
(xv) . No labor disputes exist with employees of the Company or of its Material Subsidiaries that could, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Absence of Labor Dispute
(xvi) . Other than as set forth, incorporated by reference or contemplated in the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened to which the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is or may be a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is or may be the subject which could, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole and, to the best of the Company's knowledge, no such proceedings are threatened or contemplated by governmental authorities or threatened by others; and there are no contracts or other documents of a character required to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement or required to be described in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus which are not filed or described as required.
Absence of Proceedings
 
(xvii) . Each of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries owns or possesses the right to use the patents, patent licenses, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights and know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures) (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") reasonably necessary to carry on the business conducted by each as conducted on the date hereof, except to the extent that the failure to own or possess the right to use such Intellectual Property would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and, except as set forth or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any Material Subsidiary has received any notice of infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any Intellectual Property, except for notices the content of which if accurate would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Possession of Intellectual Property
(xviii) . No material filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder, in connection with the offering, issuance or sale of the Securities hereunder, the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon conversion of Securities or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or for the due execution, delivery or performance of the Indenture by the Company, except such as have been already obtained or as may be required under the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations or state securities laws and except for the qualification of the Indenture under the 1939 Act.
Absence of Further Requirements
(xix) . The Company and each of its Material Subsidiaries have all licenses, franchises, permits, authorizations, approvals and orders of and from all governmental and regulatory officials and bodies that are necessary to own or lease and operate their properties and conduct their businesses as described in the Prospectus and that are material in relation to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, except where the failure to possess such licenses or authorizations would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
(xx) . The Company is not an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
(xxi) . Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, each of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries is in compliance with any and all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health or the environment or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning any Hazardous Material (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), except where such non-compliance with Environmental Laws would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. The term "Hazardous Material" means (i) any "hazardous substance" as defined by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, (ii) any "hazardous waste" as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, (iii) any petroleum or petroleum product, (iv) any polychlorinated biphenyl, and (v) any pollutant or contaminant or hazardous, dangerous, or toxic chemical, material, waste or substance regulated under or within the meaning of any other Environmental Law.
Environmental Laws
 
(xxii) . Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (1) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; (2) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets; (3) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (4) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and Prospectus, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (I) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (II) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Accounting Controls and Disclosure Controls
Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries employ disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its principal executive officer or officers and principal financial officer or officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.
(xxiii) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company or any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
(xxiv) . The Registration Statement is not the subject of a pending proceeding or examination under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the 1933 Act, and the Company is not the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
Pending Proceedings and Examinations
(xxv) . Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, within the past three years, neither the Company nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee, affiliate or other person acting on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a material violation by such persons of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "FCPA"), including without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in the furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in material compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonable expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
 
(xxvi) . The operations of the Company are and have been conducted at all times in material compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no material action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Money Laundering Laws
(xxvii) . Neither the Company nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee, affiliate or person acting on behalf of the Company is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasure Department ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
OFAC
(xxviii) . The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities or the Common Stock.
No Stabilization
(b) Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
.
Officer's Certificates
SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
(a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at a price equal to 97.5% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities (the "Purchase Price"), the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Initial Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof.
Initial Securities
(b) . In addition, on the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the Underwriters, severally and not jointly, to purchase up to an additional $67,500,000 principal amount of Securities at the Purchase Price, plus accrued interest, if any, from the Closing Time (as defined below) to the Date of Delivery (as defined below). The option hereby granted will expire on the last day of the 13-day period beginning at the Closing Time and may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time only for the purpose of covering over-allotments which may be made in connection with the offering and distribution of the Initial Securities upon notice by the Representatives to the Company setting forth the number of Option Securities as to which the several Underwriters are then exercising the option and the time and date of payment and delivery for such Option Securities. Any such time and date of delivery (a "Date of Delivery") shall be determined by the Representatives, but shall not be later than seven full business days after the exercise of said option; that each Date of Delivery
Option Securities
provided
 
shall be within the 13-day period beginning at the Closing Time. In no event shall the Date of Delivery be prior to the Closing Time. If the option is exercised as to all or any portion of the Option Securities, each of the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, will purchase that proportion of the aggregate principal amount of Option Securities then being purchased which the principal amount of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter bears to the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities.
(c) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Initial Securities shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company, at 9:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the third (fourth, if the pricing occurs after 4:30 P.M. (Eastern time) on any given day) business day after the date hereof (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "Closing Time").
Payment
In addition, in the event that any or all of the Option Securities are purchased by the Underwriters, payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, such Option Securities shall be made at the above-mentioned offices, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company, on each Date of Delivery as specified in the notice from the Representatives to the Company.
Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representatives, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, which it has agreed to purchase. The Representatives, each individually and not as representatives of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Initial Securities or the Option Securities, if any, to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
(d) . Certificates for the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, shall be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Representatives may request in writing at least one full business day before the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be. The certificates for the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representatives in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be.
Denominations; Registration
(e) . The Company hereby confirms its engagement of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated as, and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated hereby confirms its agreement with the Company to render services as, a "qualified independent underwriter" within the meaning of Rule 2720 of the Conduct Rules of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority with respect to the offering and sale of the Securities. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, solely in its capacity as qualified independent underwriter and not otherwise, is referred to herein as the "Independent Underwriter".
Appointment of Qualified Independent Underwriter
 
SECTION 3. . The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
(a) . The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B and will notify the Representatives immediately, and confirm the notice in writing, (i) when any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities shall become effective, or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus shall have been filed, (ii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of a new registration statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any document incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or for additional information relating to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or such new registration statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes or of any examination pursuant to Section 8(e) of the 1933 Act concerning the Registration Statement and (v) if the Company becomes the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities. The Company will effect the filings required under Rule 424(b), in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) (without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8)), and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the form of prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such prospectus. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment. The Company shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) (i) of the 1933 Act Regulations without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act Regulations (including, if applicable, by updating the "Calculation of Registration Fee" table in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1)(ii) either in a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or on the cover page of a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)).
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests; Payment of Filing Fees
(b) . The Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities or any amendment, supplement or revision to either any preliminary prospectus (including any prospectus included in the Original Registration Statement or amendment thereto at the time it became effective) or to the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, and the Company will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object. The Company has given the Representatives notice of any filings made pursuant to the 1934 Act or 1934 Act Regulations within 48 hours prior to the execution of this Agreement; the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to make any such filing from the execution of this Agreement to the Closing Time and will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object. The Company will prepare a final term sheet (the "Final Term Sheet"), attached hereto as Schedule B, reflecting the final pricing terms of the Common Stock and the Securities, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, and shall file such Final Term Sheet as an "issuer free writing prospectus" pursuant to Rule 433 prior to the close of business two business days after the date hereof; provided that the Company shall furnish the Representatives with copies of any such Final Term Sheet a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not use or file any such document to which the Representatives or counsel to the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments and Exchange Act Documents; Preparation of Final Term Sheet
 
(c) . Upon request, the Company will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, conformed copies of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof) and conformed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The copies of the Original Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statement
(d) . The Company has delivered to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as such Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
(e) . The Company will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations and the 1939 Act and 1939 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Prospectus. If at any time when a prospectus is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include any untrue statements of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or to file a new registration statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b), such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to comply with such requirements, the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable (if it is not an automatic shelf registration statement with respect to the Securities) and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters such number of copies of such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as the Underwriters may reasonably request. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement (or any other registration statement relating to the Securities) or the Statutory Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus or included or would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances prevailing at that subsequent time, not misleading, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives and will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
(f) . The Company will use its reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and
Blue Sky Qualifications
 
other jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date hereof; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. The Company will also supply the Underwriters with such information as is necessary for the determination of the legality of the Securities for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may request.
(g) . The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide to the Underwriters the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Rule 158
(h) . The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
(i) . The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to effect the listing of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange.
Listing
(j) . During a period of 90 days from the date of the Prospectus, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, with specified exceptions, (i) directly or indirectly, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of any share of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Common Stock, whether any such swap or transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or such other securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to (i) the Securities to be sold hereunder or in connection with the Call Spread Transactions, (ii) in connection with the Common Stock Offering, (iii) any sale or transfer of shares of Common Stock (restricted or otherwise), stock options, stock units and performance shares pursuant to any existing employee benefits plans or director compensation plans of the Company, or (iv) any sale or transfer of shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of stock options outstanding on the date hereof under existing employee benefit plans or director compensation plans of the Company.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
(k) . The Company will reserve and keep available at all times, free of pre-emptive or other similar rights, a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock, for the purposes of enabling the Company to satisfy any obligations to issue Common Stock upon conversion of the Securities.
Reservation of Common Stock
(l) . The Company, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Reporting Requirements
(m) The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses.
 
filed with the Commission; provided, however, that prior to the preparation of the Final Term Sheet in accordance with Section 3(b), each Underwriter is authorized to use the information with respect to the final terms of the Securities in communications conveying information related to the offering to investors. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representatives or by the Company and the Representatives, as the case may be, is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company represents that it has treated or agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rule 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely filing with the Commission where required, legending and record keeping.
SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
(a) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any Agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities or the issuance or delivery of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates for the Securities to the Underwriters and the certificates for the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Securities and the Common Stock under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus and of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto and any costs associated with electronic delivery of any of the foregoing by the Underwriters to investors, (vii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (viii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, (ix) the fees and expenses of any transfer agent or registrar for the Common Stock, (x) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the Securities, including without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of aircraft and other transportation chartered in connection with the road show, (xi) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities, (xii) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange and (xiii) the fees and expenses of the Independent Underwriter.
Expenses
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 9(a)(i) hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Termination of Agreement
 
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 1 hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
(a) . The Registration Statement has become effective and at Closing Time no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. A prospectus containing the Rule 430B Information shall have been filed with the Commission in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8) (or a post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and become effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B). The Final Term Sheet and any other material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act Regulations shall have been timely filed. The Company shall have paid the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time period required by Rule 456(1)(i) of the 1933 Act Regulations without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act Regulations and, if applicable, shall have updated the "Calculation of Registration Fee" table in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1)(ii) either in a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or on the cover page of a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Filing of Prospectus; Payment of Filing Fee
(b) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of (i) Sidley Austin LLP, counsel for the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request and (ii) R. Read Hudson, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York, the federal law of the United States and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Representatives. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(c) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York, the federal law of the United States and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Representatives. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
(d) . At Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representatives shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1(a) hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, (iii) the Company has complied
Officers' Certificate
 
with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to their knowledge, contemplated by the Commission.
(e) . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Accountant's Comfort Letter
(f) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (e) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(g) . At Closing Time, the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities shall have been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject only to official notice of issuance.
Approval of Listing
(h) . At Closing Time, the Securities shall be rated at least Ba3 by Moody's Investor's Service Inc. and BB- (with negative outlook) by Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., and the Company shall have delivered to the Representatives a letter dated the Closing Time, from each such rating agency, or other evidence satisfactory to the Representatives, confirming that the Securities have at least such ratings; and since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in the rating assigned to the Securities or any of the Company's other debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical organization," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, below the levels described in this Section 5(h).
Maintenance of Rating
(i) . At the date of this Agreement (and in the case of James V. Lochner, as soon as practicable thereafter but no later than the Closing Time), the Representatives shall have received an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto signed by the persons listed on Schedule D hereto.
Lock-up Agreements
(j) . In the event that the Underwriters exercise their option provided in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any portion of the Option Securities, the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein and the statements in any certificates furnished by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company hereunder shall be true and correct as of each Date of Delivery and, at the relevant Date of Delivery, the Representatives shall have received:
Conditions to Purchase of Option Securities
(i) . A certificate, dated such Date of Delivery, of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company confirming that the certificate delivered at the Closing Time pursuant to Section 5(d) hereof remains true and correct as of such Date of Delivery.
Officers' Certificate
(ii) . The favorable opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel for the Company, together with the favorable opinion of R. Read Hudson, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, each in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, dated such Date of Delivery, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Date of Delivery and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(b) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
 
(iii) . The favorable opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriters, dated such Date of Delivery, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Date of Delivery and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(c) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
(iv) . A letter from Ernst & Young LLP, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives and dated such Date of Delivery, substantially in the same form and substance as the letter furnished to the Representatives pursuant to Section 5(f) hereof, except that the "specified date" in the letter furnished pursuant to this paragraph shall be a date not more than five days prior to such Date of Delivery.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(v) . Subsequent to the date of this Agreement, no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Securities or of any of the Company's other securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, below the levels described in Section 5(h).
No Downgrading
(k) . At Closing Time and at each Date of Delivery, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents
(l) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement, or, in the case of any condition to the purchase of Option Securities, on a Date of Delivery which is after the Closing Time, the obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase the relevant Option Securities, may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time or such Date of Delivery, as the case may be, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement
SECTION 6. .
Indemnification
(a) . (1) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, as such term is defined in Rule 501(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations (each, an "Affiliate"), its selling agents and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
Indemnification of Underwriters
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus,
 
any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 6(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company;
(iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
(2) In addition to and without limitation of the Company's obligation to indemnify the Independent Underwriter as an Underwriter, the Company also agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Independent Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls the Independent Underwriter within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and judgments incurred as a result of the Independent Underwriter's participation as a "qualified independent underwriter" within the meaning of Rule 2720 of the Conduct Rules of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in connection with the offering of the Securities, except for any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, and judgments resulting from the Independent Underwriter's, or such controlling person's, willful misconduct.
(b) . Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers
(c) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have
Actions against Parties; Notification
 
otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representatives, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; provided, however, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances; , , if indemnity is sought pursuant to Section 6(a)(2), notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, then in addition to such separate counsel for the indemnified parties, the indemnifying party shall be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of not more than one separate counsel (in addition to any local counsel) for the Independent Underwriter in its capacity as a "qualified independent underwriter" and all persons, if any, who control the Independent Underwriter within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act. Any such separate counsel for the Independent Underwriter and such control persons of the Independent Underwriter shall be designated in writing by the Independent Underwriter. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party. Subject to Section 6(d) hereof, no indemnified party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnifying party, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened or any claim whatsoever in respect of which such indemnification or contribution would be sought hereunder.
provided
that
(d) . If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(1) (ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
SECTION 7. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
 
The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus. The Company and the Underwriters agree that the Independent Underwriter will not receive any additional benefits hereunder for serving as the Independent Underwriter in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities.
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act and each Underwriter's Affiliates and selling agents shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to the principal amount of Initial Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto and not joint.
SECTION 8. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or its Affiliates or selling agents, any person controlling any Underwriter, its officers or directors or any person controlling the Company, and (ii) delivery of and payment for the Securities.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive
 
SECTION 9. .
Termination of Agreement
(a) . The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority or any other governmental authority, or a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement, or (iv) a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States or (v) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
Termination; General
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
SECTION 10. . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at Closing Time or a Date of Delivery to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), the Representatives shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representatives shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
(a) if the number of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased on such date, each of the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective underwriting obligations hereunder bear to the underwriting obligations of all non-defaulting Underwriters, or
(b) if the number of Defaulted Securities exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased on such date, this Agreement or, with respect to any Date of Delivery which occurs after the Closing Time, the obligation of the Underwriters to purchase and of the Company to sell the Option Securities to be purchased and sold on such Date of Delivery shall terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter.
No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
 
In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement or, in the case of a Date of Delivery which is after the Closing Time, which does not result in a termination of the obligation of the Underwriters to purchase and the Company to sell the relevant Option Securities, as the case may be, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be, for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section 10.
SECTION 11. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, immediately upon commencement of discussions with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, the Company (and each employee, representative or other agent of the Company) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to the Company relating to such tax treatment and tax structure. For purposes of the foregoing, the term "tax treatment" is the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the term "tax structure" includes any fact that may be relevant to understanding the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Tax Disclosure
SECTION 12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to J.P. Morgan Securities at 277 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10172 (fax: (212) 622-8358), attention of Equity Syndicate Desk and to Merrill Lynch at 4 World Financial Center, New York, New York 10080, attention of Equity Capital Markets with a copy to the attention of Global Origination Counsel; and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at 2210 West Oaklawn Drive, Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999, attention of Chief Financial Officer.
Notices
SECTION 13. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, (b) in connection with the offering contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, or its stockholders, creditors, employees or any other party, (c) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement, (d) the Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company, and (e) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Relationship
SECTION 14. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
 
SECTION 15. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
SECTION 16. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
SECTION 17. . TIME SHALL BE OF THE ESSENCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
TIME
SECTION 18. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
SECTION 19. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement between the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this pricing term sheet relates only to the Common Stock Offering and Convertible Senior Notes Offering and should be read together with (i) the preliminary prospectus supplement dated September 4, 2008 relating to the Common Stock Offering, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, (ii) the preliminary prospectus supplement dated September 4, 2008 relating to the Convertible Senior Notes Offering, including the documents incorporated by reference therein and (iii) the related base prospectus dated September 4, 2008, each filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Registration Statement No. 333-132434.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The exact stock prices and effective dates may not be set forth in the table above, in which case:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the conversion rate exceed 78.4313 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustments in the same manner as the applicable conversion rate as set forth under "Description of notesConversion rate adjustments" in the preliminary prospectus supplement dated September 4, 2008 for the Convertible Senior Notes Offering.
 
 
The Issuer has filed a registration statement (including prospectuses each dated as of September 4, 2008 and preliminary prospectus supplements dated September 4, 2008) with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, for the offerings to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the relevant preliminary prospectus supplement, the accompanying prospectus and the other documents the Issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the Issuer and the offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, copies may be obtained by calling J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. toll-free at 866-430-0686 or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated toll-free at 866-500-5408.
This communication should be read in conjunction with the preliminary prospectus supplements dated September 4, 2008 and the accompanying prospectuses. The information in this communication supersedes the information in the relevant preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectuses to the extent inconsistent with the information in such preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus.
ANY DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES THAT MAY APPEAR BELOW ARE NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS COMMUNICATION AND SHOULD BE DISREGARDED. SUCH DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES WERE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AS A RESULT OF THIS COMMUNICATION BEING SENT VIA BLOOMBERG OR ANOTHER EMAIL SYSTEM.
 
1. Free Writing Prospectus dated September 4, 2008.
2. Final Term Sheet, a copy of which is attached in Schedule B.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.2
 
 
 
Dated: September 9, 2008
 
 
 
September 9, 2008
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
277 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10172
MERRILL LYNCH & CO.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
4 World Financial Center
New York, New York 10080
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Tyson Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), confirms its agreement (this "Agreement") with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. ("J.P. Morgan") and Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch") and each of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Underwriters," which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 10 hereof), for whom J.P. Morgan and Merrill Lynch are acting as representatives (in such capacity, the "Representatives"), with respect to the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective numbers of shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company ("Common Stock") set forth in Schedule A hereto, and with respect to the grant by the Company to the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the option described in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any part of 3,000,000 additional shares of Common Stock to cover over-allotments, if any. The aforesaid 20,000,000 shares of Common Stock (the "Initial Securities") to be purchased by the Underwriters and all or any part of the 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock subject to the option described in Section 2(b) hereof (the "Option Securities") are hereinafter called, collectively, the "Securities."
Concurrently with the issuance of the Securities, the Company is offering in an offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act") and by means of a prospectus supplement, $450 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the "Convertible Securities", and such offering, the "Convertible Securities Offering"). The Representatives are acting as representatives of the underwriters (collectively, the "Convertible Securities Underwriters") in the Convertible Securities Offering. The Company has granted the Convertible Securities Underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional $67.5 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Securities. The Company and the Convertible Securities Underwriters will be entering into an underwriting agreement with respect to the Convertible Securities Offering.
 
The Company understands that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Securities as soon as the Representatives deem advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered.
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-132434), including the related preliminary prospectus or prospectuses, which registration statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the rules and regulations of the Commission (the "1933 Act Regulations") under the 1933 Act. Such registration statement as amended, including by the Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 thereto, covers the registration of the Securities and the Convertible Securities under the 1933 Act. Promptly after execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Company will prepare and file a prospectus in accordance with the provisions of Rule 430B ("Rule 430B") of the 1933 Act Regulations and paragraph (b) of Rule 424 ("Rule 424(b)") of the 1933 Act Regulations. Any information included in such prospectus that was omitted from such registration statement at the time it became effective but that is deemed to be part of and included in such registration statement pursuant to Rule 430B is referred to as "Rule 430B Information." Each prospectus used in connection with the offering of the Securities that omitted Rule 430B Information is herein called a "preliminary prospectus." Such registration statement, at any given time, including the amendments thereto to such time (including Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 thereto), the exhibits and any schedules thereto at such time, the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at such time and the documents otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or included therein by 1933 Act Regulations, is herein called the "Registration Statement." The Registration Statement at the time it originally became effective is herein called the "Original Registration Statement." The final prospectus in the form first furnished to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, including the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at the time of the execution of this Agreement and any preliminary prospectuses that form a part thereof, is herein called the "Prospectus." For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("EDGAR").
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act") which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be.
 
SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties
(a) . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, the Applicable Time referred to in Section 1(a)(ii) hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(c) hereof, and as of each Date of Delivery (if any) referred to in Section 2(b) hereof, and agrees with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Company
(i) . (A) At the time of filing the Original Registration Statement, (B) at the time of filing the Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 thereto, (C) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the 1933 Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act or form of prospectus), (D) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the 1933 Act Regulations and (E) at the date hereof, the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 405"), including not having been and not being an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, and the Securities, since their registration on the Registration Statement, have been and remain eligible for registration by the Company on a Rule 405 "automatic shelf registration statement". The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations objecting to the use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
Status as a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
At the time of filing the Original Registration Statement, at the earliest time thereafter that the Company or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations) of the Securities and at the date hereof, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
bona fide
(ii) . The Original Registration Statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 462(e)"), and any post-effective amendments thereto, including Post-Effective Amendment No. 1, have also become effective upon filing under Rule 462(e). No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Registration Statement, Prospectus and Disclosure at Time of Sale
Any offer that is a written communication relating to the Securities made prior to the filing of the Original Registration Statement by the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this paragraph only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) has been filed with the Commission in accordance with the exemption provided by Rule 163 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 163") and otherwise complied with the requirements of Rule 163, including without limitation the legending requirement, to qualify such offer for the exemption from Section 5(c) of the 1933 Act provided by Rule 163.
At the respective times the Original Registration Statement and each amendment thereto became effective, including Post-Effective Amendment No. 1, at each deemed effective date with respect to the Underwriters pursuant to Rule 430B(f)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations and at the Closing Time (and, if any Option Securities are purchased, at the Date of Delivery), the Registration Statement complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto, at the time the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement was issued and at the Closing Time (and, if any Option Securities are purchased, at the Date of Delivery), included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
Each preliminary prospectus (including the prospectus or prospectuses filed as part of the Original Registration Statement or any amendment thereto) complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations and each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with this offering was identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T and except for filing fees information.
As of the Applicable Time, neither (x) the Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus(es) (as defined below) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time (as defined below), the Statutory Prospectus (as defined below), the Final Term Sheet (as defined below), all considered together (collectively, the "General Disclosure Package"), nor (y) any individual Issuer Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
As of the time of the filing of the Final Term Sheet, the General Disclosure Package, when considered together with the Final Term Sheet (as defined in Section 3(b)), will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
As used in this subsection and elsewhere in this Agreement:
"Applicable Time" means 6:00 P.M. (Eastern time) on September 9, 2008 or such other time as agreed by the Company and the Representatives.
"Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 433"), relating to the Securities that (i) is required to be filed with the Commission by the Company, including the Final Term Sheet, (ii) is a "road show that is a written communication" within the meaning of Rule 433(d)(8)(i), whether or not required to be filed with the Commission or (iii) is exempt from filing pursuant to Rule 433(d)(5)(i) because it contains a description of the Securities or of the offering that does not reflect the final terms, in each case in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
"Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being specified in Schedule D hereto.
"Issuer Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not an Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus.
"Statutory Prospectus" as of any time means the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof.
 
Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Securities or until any earlier date that the issuer notified or notifies the Representatives as described in Section 3(e), did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified.
The representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
(iii) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations or the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1934 Act Regulations"), as applicable, and, when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, (a) at the time the Original Registration Statement became effective, (b) at the earlier of the time the Prospectus was first used and the Applicable Time and (c) at the Closing Time (and if any Option Securities are purchased, at the Date of Delivery), did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
(iv) . Ernst & Young LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are an independent registered public accounting firm as required by the 1933 Act.
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
(v) . The financial statements, and the related notes thereto, included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their consolidated cash flows for the periods specified; said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis, except as described in the notes to such financial statements, and the supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in such Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly the information required to be stated therein.
Financial Statements
(vi) . Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, there has not been any material adverse change, or any development known by the Company (after diligent inquiry) involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the business, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, otherwise than as set forth, incorporated by reference or contemplated in the Prospectus; and except as set forth, incorporated by reference or contemplated in the Prospectus neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement (whether or not in the ordinary course of business) material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
 
(vii) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the state of its incorporation, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties, or conducts any business, so as to require such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Good Standing of the Company
(viii) . Each of the Company's subsidiaries that constitutes a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the Commission (the "Material Subsidiaries") has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and all the outstanding shares of capital stock of each Material Subsidiary of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully-paid and non-assessable, and (except in the case of foreign subsidiaries, for directors' qualifying shares) are owned by the Company, directly or indirectly, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, security interests and claims.
Good Standing of Subsidiaries
(ix) . The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization" (except for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to this Agreement, pursuant to reservations, agreements or employee benefit plans referred to in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or pursuant to the exercise of convertible securities or options referred to in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. The shares of issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable; none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company was issued in violation of the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
Capitalization
(x) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(xi) . The Securities have been duly authorized for issuance and sale to the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement and, when issued and delivered by the Company pursuant to this Agreement against payment of the consideration set forth herein, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable; the Common Stock conforms in all material respects to all statements relating thereto contained in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and such description conforms in all material respects to the rights set forth in the instruments defining the same; no holder of the Securities will be subject to personal liability by reason of being such a holder; and the issuance of the Securities is not subject to the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
Authorization and Description of Securities
 
(xii) . Neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries is, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would be, in violation of or in default under, its Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them or any of their respective properties is bound, except for violations and defaults which individually or in the aggregate are not material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or to the holders of the Securities; the issue and sale of the Securities and the performance by the Company of all of its obligations hereunder and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated will not conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is subject, except for conflicts, breaches or defaults that, singly or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, nor will any such action result in any violation of the provisions of (A) the Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Company or (B) any applicable law or statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company, its Material Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties, except, in the case of (B) above, for violations that, singly or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the Securities or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as have been obtained under the 1933 Act and as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky Laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriter.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
(xiii) . No labor disputes exist with employees of the Company or of its Material Subsidiaries that could, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Absence of Labor Dispute
(xiv) . Other than as set forth, incorporated by reference or contemplated in the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened to which the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is or may be a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is or may be the subject which could, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole and, to the best of the Company's knowledge, no such proceedings are threatened or contemplated by governmental authorities or threatened by others; and there are no contracts or other documents of a character required to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement or required to be described in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus which are not filed or described as required.
Absence of Proceedings
(xv) . Each of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries owns or possesses the right to use the patents, patent licenses, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights and know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures) (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") reasonably necessary to carry on the business conducted by each as conducted on the date hereof, except to the extent that the failure to own or possess the right to use such Intellectual Property would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to
Possession of Intellectual Property
 
have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and, except as set forth or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any Material Subsidiary has received any notice of infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any Intellectual Property, except for notices the content of which if accurate would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
(xvi) . No material filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder, in connection with the offering, issuance or sale of the Securities hereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except such as have been already obtained or as may be required under the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations or state securities laws.
Absence of Further Requirements
(xvii) . The Company and each of its Material Subsidiaries have all licenses, franchises, permits, authorizations, approvals and orders of and from all governmental and regulatory officials and bodies that are necessary to own or lease and operate their properties and conduct their businesses as described in the Prospectus and that are material in relation to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, except where the failure to possess such licenses or authorizations would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
(xviii) . The Company is not an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
(xix) . Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, each of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries is in compliance with any and all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health or the environment or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning any Hazardous Material (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), except where such non-compliance with Environmental Laws would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. The term "Hazardous Material" means (i) any "hazardous substance" as defined by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, (ii) any "hazardous waste" as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, (iii) any petroleum or petroleum product, (iv) any polychlorinated biphenyl, and (v) any pollutant or contaminant or hazardous, dangerous, or toxic chemical, material, waste or substance regulated under or within the meaning of any other Environmental Law.
Environmental Laws
(xx) . Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (1) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; (2) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets; (3) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (4) the recorded accountability for assets is
Accounting Controls and Disclosure Controls
 
compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and Prospectus, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (I) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (II) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries employ disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its principal executive officer or officers and principal financial officer or officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.
(xxi) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company or any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
(xxii) . The Registration Statement is not the subject of a pending proceeding or examination under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the 1933 Act, and the Company is not the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
Pending Proceedings and Examinations
(xxiii) . Except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, within the past three years, neither the Company nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee, affiliate or other person acting on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a material violation by such persons of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "FCPA"), including without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in the furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and except as described or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in material compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonable expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(xxiv) . The operations of the Company are and have been conducted at all times in material compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no material action, suit
Money Laundering Laws
 
or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
(xxv) . Neither the Company nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee, affiliate or person acting on behalf of the Company is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasure Department ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
OFAC
(xxvi) . The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
No Stabilization
(b) Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
.
Officer's Certificates
SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
(a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at the price per share set forth in Schedule C, the number of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional number of Initial Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof.
Initial Securities
(b) . In addition, on the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the Underwriters, severally and not jointly, to purchase up to an additional 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock at the price per share set forth in Schedule C, less an amount per share equal to any dividends or distributions declared by the Company and payable on the Initial Securities but not payable on the Option Securities. The option hereby granted will expire 30 days after the date hereof and may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time only for the purpose of covering over-allotments which may be made in connection with the offering and distribution of the Initial Securities upon notice by the Representatives to the Company setting forth the number of Option Securities as to which the several Underwriters are then exercising the option and the time and date of payment and delivery for such Option Securities. Any such time and date of delivery (a "Date of Delivery") shall be determined by the Representatives, but shall not be later than seven full business days after the exercise of said option, nor in any event prior to the Closing Time, as hereinafter defined. If the option is exercised as to all or any portion of the Option Securities, each of the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, will purchase that proportion of the total number of Option Securities then being purchased which the number of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter bears to the total number of Initial Securities, subject in each case to such adjustments as the Representatives in their discretion shall make to eliminate any sales or purchases of fractional shares.
Option Securities
(c) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Initial Securities shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company,
Payment
 
at 9:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the third (fourth, if the pricing occurs after 4:30 P.M. (Eastern time) on any given day) business day after the date hereof (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "Closing Time").
In addition, in the event that any or all of the Option Securities are purchased by the Underwriters, payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, such Option Securities shall be made at the above-mentioned offices, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company, on each Date of Delivery as specified in the notice from the Representatives to the Company.
Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representatives, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, which it has agreed to purchase. The Representatives, each individually and not as representatives of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Initial Securities or the Option Securities, if any, to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
(d) . Certificates for the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, shall be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Representatives may request in writing at least one full business day before the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be. The certificates for the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representatives in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be.
Denominations; Registration
SECTION 3. . The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
(a) . The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B and will notify the Representatives immediately, and confirm the notice in writing, (i) when any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities shall become effective, or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus shall have been filed, (ii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of a new registration statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any document incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or for additional information relating to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or such new registration statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes or of any examination pursuant to Section 8(e) of the 1933 Act concerning the Registration Statement and (v) if the Company becomes the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities. The Company will effect the filings required under Rule 424(b), in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) (without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8)), and will take
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests; Payment of Filing Fees
 
such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the form of prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such prospectus. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment. The Company shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1)(i) of the 1933 Act Regulations without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act Regulations (including, if applicable, by updating the "Calculation of Registration Fee" table in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1)(ii) either in a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or on the cover page of a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)).
(b) . The Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities or any amendment, supplement or revision to either any preliminary prospectus (including any prospectus included in the Original Registration Statement or amendment thereto at the time it became effective) or to the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, and the Company will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object. The Company has given the Representatives notice of any filings made pursuant to the 1934 Act or 1934 Act Regulations within 48 hours prior to the execution of this Agreement; the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to make any such filing from the execution of this Agreement to the Closing Time and will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object. The Company will prepare a final term sheet (the "Final Term Sheet"), attached hereto as Schedule B, reflecting the final pricing terms of the Convertible Securities and the Securities, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, and shall file such Final Term Sheet as an "issuer free writing prospectus" pursuant to Rule 433 prior to the close of business two business days after the date hereof; provided that the Company shall furnish the Representatives with copies of any such Final Term Sheet a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not use or file any such document to which the Representatives or counsel to the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments and Exchange Act Documents; Preparation of Final Term Sheet
(c) . Upon request, the Company will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, conformed copies of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof) and conformed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The copies of the Original Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statement
(d) . The Company has delivered to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as such Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
 
(e) . The Company will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Prospectus. If at any time when a prospectus is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include any untrue statements of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or to file a new registration statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b), such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to comply with such requirements, the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable (if it is not an automatic shelf registration statement with respect to the Securities) and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters such number of copies of such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as the Underwriters may reasonably request. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement (or any other registration statement relating to the Securities) or the Statutory Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus or included or would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances prevailing at that subsequent time, not misleading, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives and will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
(f) . The Company will use its reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date hereof; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. The Company will also supply the Underwriters with such information as is necessary for the determination of the legality of the Securities for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may request.
Blue Sky Qualifications
(g) . The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide to the Underwriters the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Rule 158
(h) . The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
 
(i) . The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to effect the listing of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange.
Listing
(j) . During a period of 90 days from the date of the Prospectus, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, with specified exceptions, (i) directly or indirectly, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of any share of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Common Stock, whether any such swap or transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or such other securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to (i) the Securities to be sold hereunder, (ii) in connection with the Convertible Securities Offering or convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions that the Company and affiliates of the Representatives are entering into in connection with the Convertible Securities Offering, (iii) any sale or transfer of shares of Common Stock (restricted or otherwise), stock options, stock units and performance shares pursuant to any existing employee benefits plans or director compensation plans of the Company, or (iv) any sale or transfer of shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of stock options outstanding on the date hereof under existing employee benefit plans or director compensation plans of the Company.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
(k) . The Company, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Reporting Requirements
(l) The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission; provided, however, that prior to the preparation of the Final Term Sheet in accordance with Section 3(b), each Underwriter is authorized to use the information with respect to the final terms of the Securities in communications conveying information related to the offering to investors. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representatives or by the Company and the Representatives, as the case may be, is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company represents that it has treated or agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rule 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely filing with the Commission where required, legending and record keeping.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses.
SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
(a) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any Agreement among Underwriters and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates for the Securities to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel,
Expenses
 
accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus and of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto and any costs associated with electronic delivery of any of the foregoing by the Underwriters to investors, (vii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (viii) the fees and expenses of any transfer agent or registrar for the Securities, (ix) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the Securities, including without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of aircraft and other transportation chartered in connection with the road show and (x) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange.
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 9(a)(i) hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Termination of Agreement
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 1 hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
(a) . The Registration Statement has become effective and at Closing Time no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. A prospectus containing the Rule 430B Information shall have been filed with the Commission in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8) (or a post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and become effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B). The Final Term Sheet and any other material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act Regulations shall have been timely filed. The Company shall have paid the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time period required by Rule 456(1)(i) of the 1933 Act Regulations without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act Regulations and, if applicable, shall have updated the "Calculation of Registration Fee" table in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1)(ii) either in a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or on the cover page of a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Filing of Prospectus; Payment of Filing Fee
(b) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of (i) Sidley Austin LLP, counsel for the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request and (ii) R. Read Hudson, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for
Opinion of Counsel for Company
 
each of the other Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York, the federal law of the United States and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Representatives. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
(c) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York, the federal law of the United States and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Representatives. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
(d) . At Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representatives shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1(a) hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to their knowledge, contemplated by the Commission.
Officers' Certificate
(e) . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Accountant's Comfort Letter
(f) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (e) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(g) . At Closing Time, the Securities shall have been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject only to official notice of issuance.
Approval of Listing
(h) . At the date of this Agreement (and in the case of James V. Lochner, as soon as practicable thereafter but no later than the Closing Time), the Representatives shall have received an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto signed by the persons listed on Schedule E hereto.
Lock-up Agreements
 
(i) . At Closing Time, the Convertible Securities shall be rated at least Ba3 by Moody's Investor's Service Inc. and BB- (with negative outlook) by Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., and the Company shall have delivered to the Representatives a letter dated the Closing Time, from each such rating agency, or other evidence satisfactory to the Representatives, confirming that the Securities have at least such ratings; and since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in the rating assigned to the Convertible Securities or any of the Company's other debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical organization," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, below the levels described in this Section 5(i).
Maintenance of Rating
(j) . In the event that the Underwriters exercise their option provided in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any portion of the Option Securities, the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein and the statements in any certificates furnished by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company hereunder shall be true and correct as of each Date of Delivery and, at the relevant Date of Delivery, the Representatives shall have received:
Conditions to Purchase of Option Securities
(i) . A certificate, dated such Date of Delivery, of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company confirming that the certificate delivered at the Closing Time pursuant to Section 5(d) hereof remains true and correct as of such Date of Delivery.
Officers' Certificate
(ii) . The favorable opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel for the Company, together with the favorable opinion of R. Read Hudson, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, each in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, dated such Date of Delivery, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Date of Delivery and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(b) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(iii) . The favorable opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriters, dated such Date of Delivery, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Date of Delivery and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(c) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
(iv) . A letter from Ernst & Young LLP, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives and dated such Date of Delivery, substantially in the same form and substance as the letter furnished to the Representatives pursuant to Section 5(f) hereof, except that the "specified date" in the letter furnished pursuant to this paragraph shall be a date not more than five days prior to such Date of Delivery.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(k) . At Closing Time and at each Date of Delivery, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents
(l) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement, or, in the case of any condition to the purchase of Option Securities, on a Date of Delivery which is after the Closing Time, the obligations of
Termination of Agreement
 
the several Underwriters to purchase the relevant Option Securities, may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time or such Date of Delivery, as the case may be, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 6. .
Indemnification
(a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, as such term is defined in Rule 501(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations (each, an "Affiliate"), its selling agents and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
Indemnification of Underwriters
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 6(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company;
(iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
(b) . Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers
 
preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
(c) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representatives, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; provided, however, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party. Subject to Section 6(d) hereof, no indemnified party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnifying party, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened or any claim whatsoever in respect of which such indemnification or contribution would be sought hereunder.
Actions against Parties; Notification
(d) . If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
SECTION 7. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
 
The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus.
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act and each Underwriter's Affiliates and selling agents shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to the number of Initial Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto and not joint.
SECTION 8. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or its Affiliates or selling agents, any person controlling any Underwriter, its officers or directors or any person controlling the Company, and (ii) delivery of and payment for the Securities.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive
 
SECTION 9. .
Termination of Agreement
(a) . The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority or any other governmental authority, or a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement, or (iv) a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States or (v) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
Termination; General
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
SECTION 10. . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at Closing Time or a Date of Delivery to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), the Representatives shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representatives shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
(a) if the number of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the number of Securities to be purchased on such date, each of the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective underwriting obligations hereunder bear to the underwriting obligations of all non-defaulting Underwriters, or
(b) if the number of Defaulted Securities exceeds 10% of the number of Securities to be purchased on such date, this Agreement or, with respect to any Date of Delivery which occurs after the Closing Time, the obligation of the Underwriters to purchase and of the Company to sell the Option Securities to be purchased and sold on such Date of Delivery shall terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter.
No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
 
In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement or, in the case of a Date of Delivery which is after the Closing Time, which does not result in a termination of the obligation of the Underwriters to purchase and the Company to sell the relevant Option Securities, as the case may be, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be, for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section 10.
SECTION 11. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, immediately upon commencement of discussions with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, the Company (and each employee, representative or other agent of the Company) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to the Company relating to such tax treatment and tax structure. For purposes of the foregoing, the term "tax treatment" is the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the term "tax structure" includes any fact that may be relevant to understanding the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Tax Disclosure
SECTION 12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to J.P. Morgan Securities at 277 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10172 (fax: (212) 622-8358), attention of Equity Syndicate Desk and to Merrill Lynch at 4 World Financial Center, New York, New York 10080, attention of Equity Capital Markets with a copy to the attention of Global Origination Counsel; and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at 2210 West Oaklawn Drive, Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999, attention of Chief Financial Officer.
Notices
SECTION 13. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, (b) in connection with the offering contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, or its stockholders, creditors, employees or any other party, (c) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement, (d) the Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company, and (e) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Relationship
SECTION 14. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
 
SECTION 15. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
SECTION 16. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
SECTION 17. . TIME SHALL BE OF THE ESSENCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
TIME
SECTION 18. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
SECTION 19. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement between the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this pricing term sheet relates only to the Common Stock Offering and Convertible Senior Notes Offering and should be read together with (i) the preliminary prospectus supplement dated September 4, 2008 relating to the Common Stock Offering, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, (ii) the preliminary prospectus supplement dated September 4, 2008 relating to the Convertible Senior Notes Offering, including the documents incorporated by reference therein and (iii) the related base prospectus dated September 4, 2008, each filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Registration Statement No. 333-132434.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The exact stock prices and effective dates may not be set forth in the table above, in which case:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the conversion rate exceed 78.4313 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustments in the same manner as the applicable conversion rate as set forth under "Description of notesConversion rate adjustments" in the preliminary prospectus supplement dated September 4, 2008 for the Convertible Senior Notes Offering.
 
 
The Issuer has filed a registration statement (including prospectuses each dated as of September 4, 2008 and preliminary prospectus supplements dated September 4, 2008) with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, for the offerings to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the relevant preliminary prospectus supplement, the accompanying prospectus and the other documents the Issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the Issuer and the offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, copies may be obtained by calling J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. toll-free at 866-430-0686 or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated toll-free at 866-500-5408.
This communication should be read in conjunction with the preliminary prospectus supplements dated September 4, 2008 and the accompanying prospectuses. The information in this communication supersedes the information in the relevant preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectuses to the extent inconsistent with the information in such preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus.
ANY DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES THAT MAY APPEAR BELOW ARE NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS COMMUNICATION AND SHOULD BE DISREGARDED. SUCH DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES WERE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AS A RESULT OF THIS COMMUNICATION BEING SENT VIA BLOOMBERG OR ANOTHER EMAIL SYSTEM.
 
1. The initial public offering price per share for the Securities, determined as provided in said Section 2, shall be $12.75.
2. The purchase price per share for the Securities to be paid by the several Underwriters shall be $12.2082, being an amount equal to the initial public offering price per share set forth above less $0.5418 per share; provided that the purchase price per share for any Option Securities purchased upon the exercise of the over-allotment option described in Section 2(b) shall be reduced by an amount per share equal to any dividends or distributions declared by the Company and payable on the Initial Securities but not payable on the Option Securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of September 15, 2008, between Tyson Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.)), as trustee (the "") under the indenture dated as of June 1, 1995, between the Company and the Trustee (as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof, the "").
Company
Trustee
Original Indenture
WHEREAS, the Company executed and delivered the Original Indenture to the Trustee to provide, among other things, for the future issuance of the Company's unsecured Securities from time to time in one or more series as might be determined by the Company under the Original Indenture, in an unlimited aggregate principal amount which may be authenticated and delivered as provided in the Original Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 9.1 of the Original Indenture provides for various matters with respect to any series of Securities issued under the Original Indenture to be established in an indenture supplemental to the Original Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 9.1(5) of the Original Indenture provides for the Company and the Trustee to enter into an indenture supplemental to the Original Indenture to establish the form or forms or terms of Securities of any series or of the coupons appertaining to such series as permitted by Section 2.3 of the Original Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has duly adopted resolutions authorizing the Company to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Original Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of its Securities to be known as its "3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013" (the ""), the form and substance of such Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Original Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture;
Notes
WHEREAS, the Form of Note, the certificate of authentication to be borne by each Note, the Form of Notice of Conversion, the Form of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice and the Form of Assignment and Transfer to be borne by the Notes are to be substantially in the forms hereinafter provided for; and
WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture, and all requirements necessary to make (i) this Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with its terms, and (ii) the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company, have been performed, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH, for and in consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Notes by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the benefit of the Company and the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Notes, as follows:
SECTION 1.01The changes, modifications and supplements to the Original Indenture effected by this Supplemental Indenture shall be applicable only with respect to, and shall only govern the terms of, the Notes, which may be issued from time to time, and shall not apply to any other Securities that may be issued under the Original Indenture unless a supplemental indenture with respect to such other Securities specifically incorporates such changes, modifications and supplements. The provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall supersede any corresponding provisions in the Original Indenture.
. Scope of Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 1.02For all purposes of the Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
. Definitions.
(i) the terms defined in this Article 1 shall have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(ii) all words, terms and phrases defined in the Original Indenture (but not otherwise defined herein) shall have the same meaning herein as in the Original Indenture;
(iii) all other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, shall have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(iv) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of this instrument; and
(v) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.02.
Additional Interest
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Additional Notes
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.06(a).
Additional Shares
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02.
Agent Members
"" means an independent nationally recognized securities dealer selected by the Company to solicit market bid quotations for the Notes, which shall in no event be an Affiliate of the Company.
Bid Solicitation Agent
 
"" means the board of directors of the Company or a committee of such board duly authorized to act for it hereunder.
Board of Directors
"" means, with respect to any Note, any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or any other day on which banks or trust companies in The City of New York are authorized or required by law to be closed.
Business Day
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Clause A Distribution
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Clause B Distribution
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Clause C Distribution
"" means 5:00 p.m. (New York City time).
close of business
"" means the shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company as they exist on the date of this Supplemental Indenture, subject to Section 4.07.
Common Stock
"" means the Trustee or such other office or agency designated by the Company where Notes may be presented for conversion. The Conversion Agent shall initially be the Trustee.
Conversion Agent
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.02(b).
Conversion Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.02(b).
Conversion Notice
"" means, in respect of each Note, as of any date, $1,000, the Conversion Rate as of such date.
Conversion Price
divided by
"" means, initially, 59.1935 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustment as set forth herein.
Conversion Rate
"" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes (so long as the Notes constitute Global Notes), or any successor entity.
Custodian
"" means, for each of the 25 consecutive Trading Days during the Observation Period, one twenty-fifth (1/25th) of the product of (i) the applicable Conversion Rate and (ii) the Daily VWAP of Common Stock on such Trading Day.
Daily Conversion Value
" has the meaning specified in Section 4.03(b).
Daily Settlement Amount"
"" means, for each of the 25 consecutive Trading Days during the Observation Period, the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page "TSN.N <equity> AQR" (or its equivalent successor if such page is not available) in respect of the period from the scheduled open of trading until the scheduled close of trading of the primary trading session on such Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one share of Common Stock
Daily VWAP
 
on such Trading Day determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for such purpose by the Company). The Daily VWAP will be determined without regard to after hours trading or any other trading outside of the regular trading session trading hours.
"" means The Depository Trust Company until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture, and thereafter "" shall mean such successor Depositary.
Depositary
Depositary
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.06(b).
Effective Date
"" means, in respect of any dividend or distribution, the first date upon which a sale of the Common Stock does not automatically transfer the right to receive such dividend or distribution from the seller of the Common Stock to its buyer.
Ex-Dividend Date
"" will be deemed to have occurred at the time after the Notes are originally issued if any of the following occurs:
Fundamental Change
(1) a "person" or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, other than the Company, its Subsidiaries, its and their employee benefit plans and Permitted Holders, has become the direct or indirect "beneficial owner," as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of the Company's common equity representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's common equity;
(2) any Permitted Holder has, or any Permitted Holders have, become the direct or indirect beneficial owners of the Company's common equity representing more than 80%, in the aggregate, of the voting power of the Company's common equity;
(3) consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of the Company or any other transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Company's Subsidiaries; ,, that a transaction where the holders of all classes of the Company's common equity immediately prior to such transaction that is a share exchange, consolidation or merger own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all classes of common equity of the continuing or surviving corporation or transferee or the parent thereof immediately after such event shall not be a Fundamental Change;
provided
however
(4) the Company's stockholders approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
(5) the Company's Common Stock (or other common stock into which the Notes are then convertible) ceases to be listed or quoted on a national securities exchange in the United States, except as a result of a merger to which the Company is a party or a tender offer or exchange offer for the Common Stock or other common stock into which the Notes are then convertible.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Fundamental Change as a result of clause (3) above will not be deemed to have occurred if 100% of the consideration received or to be received by the Company's Class A common stockholders, excluding cash payments for fractional shares, in connection with the transaction or transactions constituting the Fundamental Change consists of Publicly Traded Securities and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Notes become convertible into such Publicly Traded Securities, excluding cash payments for fractional shares, subject to the provisions set forth under Section 4.03 of this Supplemental Indenture.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(b).
Fundamental Change Company Notice
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(a).
Fundamental Change Purchase Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(a)(i).
Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(a).
Fundamental Change Purchase Price
"" means any Note that is a Registered Global Security.
Global Note
"" means the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this Supplemental Indenture and any such supplemental indenture, respectively.
Indenture
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(d)(i).
Initial Dividend Threshold
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Initial Notes
"" means, with respect to the payment of interest on the Notes, each April 15 and October 15 of each year.
Interest Payment Date
"" of the Common Stock on any date means the closing sale price per share of Common Stock (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded. If the Common Stock is not listed for trading on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange on the relevant date, the "" shall be the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or similar organization. If the Common Stock is not so quoted, the "" shall be the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose.
Last Reported Sale Price
Last Reported Sale Price
Last Reported Sale Price
 
"" means any transaction or event that constitutes a Fundamental Change (determined after giving effect to any exceptions or exclusions to such definition, but without regard to the in the third clause of the definition thereof).
Make-Whole Fundamental Change
proviso
"" means (i) a failure by the primary United States national securities or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading to open for trading during its regular trading session or (ii) the occurrence or existence for more than one half-hour period in the aggregate on any Trading Day for the Common Stock of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the stock exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m., New York City time.
Market Disruption Event
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01(a)(ii).
Measurement Period
"" or "" has the meaning specified in the fifth paragraph of the recitals of this Supplemental Indenture, and shall include any Additional Notes issued pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.
Note
Notes
"" with respect to any Note means (i) prior to July 15, 2013, the 25 consecutive Trading Day period beginning on and including the second Scheduled Trading Day after the related Conversion Date and (ii) on or after July 15, 2013, the 25 consecutive Trading Days beginning on and including the 27th Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding October 15, 2013.
Observation Period
"" means 9:00 a.m. (New York City time).
opening of business
"" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Supplemental Indenture.
Original Indenture
"" means any Person (including the Company) authorized by the Company to pay the principal amount of, interest on, or Fundamental Change Purchase Price of, any Notes on behalf of the Company. The Paying Agent shall initially be the Trustee.
Paying Agent
"" means any of Don Tyson, the Tyson Limited Partnership, Don Tyson's siblings, the siblings of Don Tyson's parents and grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, spouses of any of the foregoing and the estates of any of the foregoing.
Permitted Holder
"" means permanent certificated Notes that are Registered Securities issued in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and multiples thereof.
Physical Notes
"" means, for purposes of the Notes, New York City, New York.
Place of Payment
 
"" means, in respect of a transaction described in clause (3) of the definition of Fundamental Change, shares of common stock traded on a national securities exchange or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with a Fundamental Change.
Publicly Traded Securities
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(f).
record date
"" means, with respect to the payment of interest on the Notes, the April 1 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding an Interest Payment Date on April 15 and the October 1 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding an Interest Payment Date on October 15.
Regular Record Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.07.
Reference Property
"" means a day on which trading in the Common Stock is scheduled to occur on the primary United States national or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading. If the Common Stock is not so listed or admitted for trading, "" means a Business Day.
Scheduled Trading Day
Scheduled Trading Day
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.03(a).
Settlement Amount
"" means a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act.
Significant Subsidiary
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Spin-Off
"," when used with respect to any Note, means, with respect to any Note and the payment of the principal amount thereof, October 15, 2013.
Stated Maturity
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.06(b).
Stock Price
"" means, except as provided in Section 4.03(f), a day on which (i) trading in securities generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other United States national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, in the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded, and (ii) a Last Reported Sale Price for the Common Stock is available on such securities exchange or market. If the Common Stock (or other security for which a closing sale price must be determined) is not so listed or traded, "" means a Business Day.
Trading Day
Trading Day
"" of the Notes on any date of determination means the average of the secondary market bid quotations obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent for $5 million principal amount of the Notes at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from three independent nationally recognized securities dealers the Company selects; that, if three such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent but
Trading Price
provided
 
two such bids are obtained, then the average of the two bids shall be used, and if only one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent, that one bid shall be used. If the Bid Solicitation Agent cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $5 million principal amount of the Notes from a nationally recognized securities dealer, then the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes will be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01(a)(ii).
Trading Price Condition
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(b).
Trigger Event
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., Rabo Securities USA, Inc., SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Mizuho Securities USA Inc., Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Daiwa Securities America Inc., Lazard Capital Markets LLC, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, D.A. Davidson & Co., Goldman, Sachs & Co., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., ING Financial Markets LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc.
Underwriters
"" means the Underwriting Agreement, dated September 15, 2008, entered into by the Company and the Underwriters in connection with the sale of the Notes.
Underwriting Agreement
"" means the United States of America.
U.S.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.04(c).
Valuation Period
SECTION 2.01There is hereby authorized a series of Securities designated the "3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013" initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $450,000,000 (or up to $517,500,000 if the Underwriters exercise their over-allotment option pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement in full), which amount shall be as set forth in any written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of Notes pursuant to Section 2.2 of the Original Indenture.
. Title and Terms; Payments.
The principal amount of Notes then outstanding shall be payable at Stated Maturity.
The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, hereafter issue additional notes ("") under the Indenture with the same terms and with the same CUSIP numbers as the Notes issued on the date of this Supplemental Indenture (the "") in an unlimited aggregate principal amount; that such Additional Notes must be part of the same issue as the Initial Notes for federal income tax purposes. Any such Additional Notes shall constitute a single series together with the Initial Notes for all purposes hereunder, including, without limitation, waivers, amendments and offers to purchase.
Additional Notes
Initial Notes
provided
 
The Form of Note, the Form of Notice of Conversion, the Form of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice and the Form of Assignment and Transfer shall be substantially as set forth in Exhibits A, B, C and D, respectively, hereto, which is incorporated into and shall be deemed a part of this Supplemental Indenture, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by the Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Notes, as evidenced by their execution of the Notes.
The Company shall pay principal of and interest on any Global Note in immediately available funds to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, as the registered Holder of such Global Note. The Company shall pay principal of any Notes (other than Notes that are Global Notes) at the office or agency designated by the Company for that purpose. The Company has initially designated the Trustee as its Paying Agent and Registrar in respect of the Notes and its agency in New York, New York as a place where Notes may be presented for payment or for registration of transfer. The Company may, however, change the Paying Agent or Registrar for the Notes without prior notice to the Holders thereof, and the Company may act as Paying Agent or Registrar. Interest on the Notes (other than Notes that are Global Notes) will be payable (i) to Holders of the Notes having an aggregate principal amount of Notes of $5,000,000 or less, by check mailed to the Holders of these Notes at their address in the Security Register and (ii) to Holders having an aggregate principal amount of Notes in excess of $5,000,000, either by check mailed to each Holder at its address in the Security Register or, upon application by a Holder to the Registrar not later than the relevant Regular Record Date, by wire transfer in immediately available funds to that Holder's account within the United States, which application shall remain in effect until that Holder notifies, in writing, the Registrar to the contrary.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Notes initially shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Notes without interest coupons (i) registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of the Depositary and (ii) delivered to the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary.
Book-Entry Provisions for Global Notes.
Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Supplemental Indenture or the Original Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under the Global Note, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of the Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of any Holder.
Agent Members
 
(b) Transfers of Global Notes shall be limited to transfers in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.7 of the Original Indenture, interests of beneficial owners in a Global Note may be transferred or exchanged, in whole or in part, for Physical Notes, only: (i) pursuant to the sixth paragraph of Section 2.7 of the Original Indenture regarding (x) the Depositary being unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Notes and a successor Depositary is not appointed within 90 days or (y) the Depositary ceasing to be eligible or in good standing as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act and a successor Depositary is not appointed within 90 days; or (ii) if an Event of Default with respect to the Notes has occurred and is continuing and such beneficial owner requests that its Notes be issued in physical, certificated form, in each case in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary. Other than as set forth in this Section 2.02(b), the Notes shall remain in global form as Global Notes.
(c) In connection with any transfer or exchange of a portion of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 2.7 of the Original Indenture, the Registrar shall (if one or more Physical Notes are to be issued) reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to be transferred, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Physical Notes of like tenor and amount.
(d) In connection with the transfer of the entire Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 2.7 of the Original Indenture, the Global Note shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the Global Note, an equal aggregate principal amount of Physical Notes of authorized denominations and the same tenor.
(e) The Holder of the Global Notes may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Supplemental Indenture, Original Indenture or the Notes.
SECTION 2.03In issuing the Notes, the Company may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders of the Notes; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers as printed on the Notes and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
. CUSIP Numbers.
provided
SECTION 2.04. . The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 15 days after the same is required to be filed with the Commission, copies of the quarterly and annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports, if any, that the Company is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (giving effect to any grace period provided by Rule 12b-25 under the Exchange Act), and the
Reporting Requirement
 
Company shall otherwise comply with the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Section 314(a). Any quarterly or annual report or other information, document or other report that the Company files with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act on the Commission's EDGAR system shall be deemed to constitute delivery of such filing to the Trustee. The Trustee does not have the duty to review such information, documents or reports, is not considered to have notice of the content of such information, documents or reports and does not have a duty to verify the accuracy of such information, documents or reports.
SECTION 3.01. (a) Generally. If a Fundamental Change occurs at any time prior to October 15, 2013, then each Holder of Notes shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase for cash any or all of such Holder's Notes, or any portion of the principal amount thereof, that is equal to $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000, on a date specified by the Company that is no earlier than the 20th calendar day following the date of, and no later than the 35th calendar day following the date of, delivery of the Fundamental Change Company Notice (as defined below) (the ""), at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change Purchase Date (the ""); , , that if a Fundamental Change Purchase Date is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date related thereto, the interest payable in respect of such Interest Payment Date shall be payable to the Holders of record as of the corresponding Regular Record Date and the Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased pursuant to this Article 3. The requirement for the Company to purchase any Notes on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date will be subject to extension to comply with applicable law.
Purchase at Option of Holders Upon a Fundamental Change.
Fundamental Change Purchase Date
Fundamental Change Purchase Price
provided
however
Purchases of Notes under this Section 3.01 shall be made, at the option of the Holder thereof, upon:
(i) delivery to the Paying Agent by a Holder, prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date of a duly completed notice (the "") in the form set forth on the reverse of the Note as Exhibit C thereto; and
Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
(ii) delivery or book-entry transfer of the Notes to the Trustee (or other Paying Agent appointed by the Company) (together with all necessary endorsements) at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date at the applicable Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee (or other Paying Agent appointed by the Company), such delivery being a condition to receipt by the Holder of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price therefor; that such Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.01 only if the Notes so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof in the related Fundamental Change Purchase Notice.
provided
 
The Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in respect of any Notes to be purchased shall state:
(i) if such Notes are Physical Notes, the certificate numbers of such Notes;
(ii) the portion of the principal amount of such Notes, which must be $1,000 or a multiple thereof; and
(iii) that such Notes are to be purchased by the Company pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Notes and this Supplemental Indenture;
,, that if such Notes are not in global form, the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice must comply with appropriate procedures of the Depositary.
provided
however
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Trustee (or other Paying Agent appointed by the Company) the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.01 shall have the right to withdraw, in whole or in part, such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediate preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Trustee (or other Paying Agent appointed by the Company) in accordance with Section 3.03 below.
The Trustee (or other Paying Agent appointed by the Company) shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Fundamental Change Purchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof.
(b) . On or before the 20th calendar day after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall provide to all Holders of record of the Notes, the Trustee and Paying Agent (in the case of any Paying Agent other than the Trustee) a notice (the "") of the occurrence of such Fundamental Change and of the purchase right at the option of the Holders arising as a result thereof. Such mailing shall be by first class mail or, in the case of any Global Notes, in accordance with the procedures of the Depositary for providing notices. Simultaneously with providing such Fundamental Change Company Notice, the Company shall publish a notice containing the information included therein in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or publish such information on the Company's website or through such other public medium as the Company may use at such time.
Fundamental Change Company Notice
Fundamental Change Company Notice
Each Fundamental Change Company Notice shall specify:
(i) the events causing a Fundamental Change;
(ii) the date of the Fundamental Change;
 
(iii) the last date on which a Holder of Notes may exercise the repurchase right pursuant to this Article 3;
(iv) the Fundamental Change Purchase Price;
(v) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date;
(vi) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent, if applicable;
(vii) if applicable, the applicable Conversion Rate and any adjustments to the applicable Conversion Rate;
(viii) if applicable, that the Notes with respect to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been delivered by a Holder may be converted only if the Holder withdraws the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in accordance with the Indenture; and
(ix) the procedures that Holders must follow to require the Company to purchase their Notes.
No failure of the Company to give the foregoing notices and no defect therein shall limit the Holders of Notes purchase rights or affect the validity of the proceedings for the purchase of the Notes pursuant to this Section 3.01.
(c) . There shall be no purchase of any Notes pursuant to this Section 3.01 if there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes (other than an Event of Default that is cured by the payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Notes). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Notes held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default that is cured by the payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price with respect to such Notes), in which case, upon such return, the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
No Payment During Events of Default
SECTION 3.02Upon receipt by the Trustee or Paying Agent of the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice specified in Section 3.01 hereof, the Holder of the Note in respect of which such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice is withdrawn in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Fundamental Change Purchase Price in cash with respect to such Note. Such Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, on the later of (x) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date with respect to such Note ( the conditions in Section 3.01 hereof have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Note to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.01 hereof.
. Effect of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice.
provided
 
SECTION 3.03A Fundamental Change Purchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the Trustee or Paying Agent in accordance with the Fundamental Change Company Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, specifying:
. Withdrawal of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice.
(i) the principal amount of the Notes with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted;
(ii) if Physical Notes have been issued, the certificate numbers of the withdrawn Notes; and
(iii) the principal amount of such Notes that remains subject to the original Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, which portion must be in principal amounts of $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000;
,, that if Physical Notes have not been issued, the notice must comply with appropriate procedures of the Depositary.
provided
however
The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Notes with respect to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with the provisions of this Section 3.03.
SECTION 3.04Prior to 11:00 a.m. (local time in The City of New York) on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided herein) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day) sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price, of all the Notes or portions thereof that are to be purchased as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. If the Paying Agent holds cash sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of any Note for which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been tendered and not withdrawn in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, then as of such Fundamental Change Purchase Date, (a) such Note will cease to be outstanding and interest will cease to accrue thereon (whether or not book-entry transfer of such Note is made or such Note is delivered to the Paying Agent) and (b) all other rights of the Holder in respect thereof will terminate (other than the right to receive the Fundamental Change Purchase Price and previously accrued and unpaid interest upon delivery or book-entry transfer of such Note).
. Deposit of Fundamental Change Purchase Price.
SECTION 3.05Any Note that is to be purchased, whether in whole or in part, shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Note, without service charge, a new Note or Notes, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Note so surrendered that is not purchased.
. Notes Purchased in Whole or in Part.
 
SECTION 3.06In connection with any offer to purchase Notes under Section 3.01 hereof, the Company shall, in each case if required (i) comply with Rule 13e-4, Rule 14e-1 and any other tender offer rules under the Exchange Act that may then be applicable, (ii) file a Schedule TO or any other required schedule under the Exchange Act and (iii) otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under Section 3.01 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in Section 3.01.
. Covenant to Comply With Notes Laws Upon Purchase of Notes.
SECTION 3.07To the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 3.04 exceeds the aggregate Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Notes or portions thereof that the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, then, following the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Trustee or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall promptly return any such excess to the Company.
. Repayment to the Company.
SECTION 4.01(a) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, each Holder of Notes shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert the principal amount of any such Notes, or any portion of such principal amount that is $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000 thereof, at the applicable Conversion Rate then in effect, (x) prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding July 15, 2013, only upon satisfaction of one or more of the conditions described in clauses (i) through (iv) below and (y) on or after July 15, 2013, at any time prior to the close of business on the second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding October 15, 2013 irrespective of the conditions described in clauses (i) through (iv) below:
. Right to Convert.
(i) Prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding July 15, 2013, a Holder of Notes may surrender all or a portion of its Notes for conversion during any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter) commencing after December 27, 2008 if the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 Trading Days during the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable Conversion Price in effect on each applicable Trading Day.
(ii) Prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding July 15, 2013, a Holder of Notes may surrender its Notes for conversion during the five Business Day period after any 10 consecutive Trading Day period (the "") in which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, as determined following a request by a Holder of Notes in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Measurement Period
 
this Section 4.01(a)(ii), for each Trading Day of such period was less than 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate (the ). The Bid Solicitation Agent shall have no obligation to determine the Trading Price of the Notes in accordance with this Section 4.01(a)(ii) unless requested by the Company, and the Company shall have no obligation to make such request unless a Holder of Notes provides the Company with reasonable evidence that the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes would be less than 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate. Promptly after receiving such evidence, the Company shall instruct the Bid Solicitation Agent to determine the Trading Price of the Notes beginning on the next Trading Day and on each successive Trading Day until the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes is greater than or equal to 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate. If the Company does not so instruct the Bid Solicitation Agent to obtain bids when required, the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes will be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate on each day the Company fails to do so. If the Trading Price Condition has been met, the Company shall so notify Holders, the Trustee and the Conversion Agent. If, at any time after the Trading Price Condition has been met, the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes is greater than or equal to 98% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the Conversion Rate for such date, the Company shall so notify the holders of the Notes, the Trustee and the Conversion Agent.
"Trading Price Condition"
(iii) If the Company elects to:
(A) issue to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock certain rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 45 days after the announcement date of such issuance, shares of Common Stock at less than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of a share of Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day preceding the announcement of such issuance; or
(B) distribute to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock assets, debt securities or certain rights to purchase securities of the Company, which distribution has a per share value, as reasonably determined by the Board of Directors, exceeding 10% of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day preceding the declaration date for such distribution,
then, in each case, the Company shall notify the Holders of the Notes, in the manner provided in Section 10.2 of the Original Indenture, at least 35 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such issuance. Once the Company has given such notice, Holders may surrender Notes for conversion at any time until the earlier of the close of business on the Business Day immediately prior to such Ex-Dividend Date or the Company's announcement that such issuance or distribution will not take place, even if
 
the Notes are not otherwise convertible at such time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Holder of Notes may not convert its Notes under the provisions of this Section 4.01(a)(iii) if such Holder will participate in such issuance or distribution, at the same time and upon the same terms as a holder of Common Stock, as if such Holder held, for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date.
(iv) If a transaction or event that constitutes a Fundamental Change or a Make-Whole Fundamental Change occurs, regardless of whether a Holder has the right to require the Company to purchase the Notes pursuant to Article 3 hereof, or if the Company is a party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, or sale, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, in each case, pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other assets, Holders may surrender Notes for conversion at any time from or after the date which is 30 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction until 35 Trading Days after the actual effective date of such transaction (or, if such transaction also constitutes a Fundamental Change, until the related Fundamental Change Purchase Date). The Company shall notify Holders and the Trustee as promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces such transaction, but in no event less than 35 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction (it being understood and agreed that the public announcement by the Company of any such transaction or event shall satisfy in full the Company's obligation to so notify Holders of the Notes).
(b) Notes may not be converted after the close of business on the second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding October 15, 2013.
SECTION 4.02(a) Each Note shall be convertible at the office of the Conversion Agent.
. Conversion Procedures.
(b) In order to exercise the conversion privilege with respect to any interest in a Global Note, the Holder must complete the appropriate instruction form for conversion pursuant to the Depositary's book-entry conversion program, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by the Company or the Trustee or Conversion Agent, and pay the funds, if any, required by Section 4.03(d) and any taxes or duties if required pursuant to Section 4.08 and the Trustee or Conversion Agent must be informed of the conversion in accordance with customary practice of the Depositary. In order to exercise the conversion privilege with respect to any Physical Notes, the Holder of any such Notes to be converted, in whole or in part, shall:
(i) complete and manually sign the conversion notice provided on the back of the Note (the "") or a facsimile of the Conversion Notice;
Conversion Notice
(ii) deliver the Conversion Notice, which is irrevocable, and the Note to the Conversion Agent;
(iii) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents,
 
(iv) make any payment required under Section 4.03(d); and
(v) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes as set forth in Section 4.08.
The date on which the Holder satisfies all of the applicable requirements set forth above is the "." The Trustee will, as promptly as possible, and in any event within two (2) Business Days, provide the Company with notice of any conversion by Holders of the Notes.
Conversion Date
(c) Each Conversion Notice shall state the name or names (with address or addresses) in which any certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock which shall be issuable on such conversion shall be issued. All such Notes surrendered for conversion shall, unless the shares issuable on conversion are to be issued in the same name as the registration of such Notes, be duly endorsed by, or be accompanied by instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company duly executed by, the Holder or his duly authorized attorney.
(d) In case any Notes of a denomination greater than $1,000 shall be surrendered for partial conversion, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of the Notes so surrendered, without charge, new Notes in authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the surrendered Notes.
Each conversion shall be deemed to have been effected as to any such Notes (or portion thereof) surrendered for conversion on the relevant Conversion Date; , , that the person in whose name the certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, that shall be issuable upon such conversion in respect of any Trading Day during an Observation Period, if applicable, shall become the Holder of record of such shares of Common Stock as of the close of business on such Trading Day.
provided
however
(e) Upon the conversion of an interest in Global Notes, the Trustee (or other Conversion Agent appointed by the Company) shall make a notation on such Global Notes as to the reduction in the principal amount represented thereby. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of any conversions of Notes effected through any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee.
(f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Note in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice exercising such Holder's option to require the Company to purchase such Note may be converted only if such notice of exercise is withdrawn in accordance with Article 3 hereof prior to the close of business on the Business Day prior to the relevant Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
SECTION 4.03(a) Upon any conversion of any Note, on the third Business Day immediately following the last Trading Day of the relevant Observation Period, the Company shall deliver to converting Holders, in respect of each $1,000 principal amount of Notes being converted, a "" equal to the sum of the Daily Settlement Amounts for each of the 25 Trading Days during the applicable Observation Period for such Note.
. Payments Upon Conversion.
Settlement Amount
 
(b) The "," for each of the 25 Trading Days during the Observation Period, shall consist of:
Daily Settlement Amount
(i) cash equal to the lesser of $40 and the Daily Conversion Value, and
(ii) to the extent the Daily Conversion Value exceeds $40, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to (x) the difference between the Daily Conversion Value and $40, (y) the Daily VWAP for such day.
divided by
(c) Subject to Section 4.03(d) below, upon conversion, Holders shall not receive any separate cash payment for accrued and unpaid interest unless such conversion occurs between a Regular Record Date and the Interest Payment Date to which it relates.
(d) Upon the conversion of any Notes, the Holder will not be entitled to receive any separate cash payment for accrued and unpaid interest except to the extent specified below. The Company's delivery to the Holder of cash or a combination of cash and Common Stock, if applicable, together with any cash payment for any fractional share of Common Stock, will be deemed to satisfy in full the Company's obligation to pay the principal amount of the Notes so converted and accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Conversion Date. As a result, accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Conversion Date will be deemed to be paid in full rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Notes are converted after the close of business on a Regular Record Date for the payment of interest, Holders of such Notes at the close of business on such Regular Record Date will receive the full amount of interest payable on such Notes on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion. Notes surrendered for conversion during the period from close of business on any Regular Record Date to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the immediately following Interest Payment Date must be accompanied by funds equal to the full amount of interest payable on the Notes so converted; that no such payment need be made (i) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Purchase Date that is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the Trading Day after the corresponding Interest Payment Date; (ii) for conversions following the Regular Record Date immediately preceding October 15, 2013 or (iii) to the extent of any overdue interest, if any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Note.
provided
(e) The Company shall not issue fractional shares of Common Stock upon conversion of Notes. If multiple Notes shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares which shall be issuable upon conversion shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted hereby) so surrendered. If any fractional share of stock would be issuable upon the conversion of any Notes, the Company shall make payment therefor in cash in lieu of fractional shares of Common Stock based on the Daily VWAP of the Company's Common Stock on the final Trading Day of the applicable Observation Period.
(f) Solely for purposes of determining the payments and deliveries due upon conversion under this Section 4.03, and notwithstanding the definition of "Trading Day" contained in Section 1.01, "" means a day on which (i) there is no Market
Trading Day
 
Disruption Event and (ii) trading in the Common Stock generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other United States national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, in the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded. If the Common Stock (or other security for which a Daily VWAP must be determined) is not so listed or traded, "" means a Business Day.
Trading Day
SECTION 4.04The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Company if any of the following events occurs, except that the Company will not make any adjustment to the Conversion Rate if Holders of Notes participate, as a result of holding the Notes, in any of the transactions described in this Section 4.04, at the same time as holders of the Common Stock participate, without having to convert their Notes as if such Holders held a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date.
. Adjustment of Conversion Rate.
(a) If the Company, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, exclusively issues shares of its Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on shares of Common Stock, or if the Company effects a share split or share combination, then the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
where
 
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution, or the effective date for such share split or share combination. If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 4.04(a) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
 
(b) If the Company, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, issues to all or substantially all holders of the Common Stock any rights or warrants entitling them for a period of not more than 60 calendar days after the announcement date of such issuance to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Common Stock at a price per share less than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of such issuance, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where
 
To the extent such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration or termination, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. In the event that such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants had not been fixed. For the purposes of this Section 4.04(b), in determining whether any rights or warrants entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at less than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of such issuance, and in determining the
 
aggregate exercise price payable for such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights or warrants and any amount payable on exercise thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, as shall be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors.
(c) If the Company, at any time or from time to time while the Notes are outstanding, distributes shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Company, evidences of its indebtedness, other assets or property of the Company or rights or warrants to acquire the Company's Capital Stock or other securities to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock, excluding:
(i) dividends or distributions and rights or warrants as to which an adjustment was effected pursuant to Section 4.04(a) or Section 4.04(b);
(ii) Spin-Offs to which the provisions set forth below in this Section 4.04(c) shall apply; and
(iii) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in cash;
then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where
 
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. If the Board of Directors determines the "FMV" (as defined above) of any distribution for purposes of this Section 4.04(c) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if "FMV" (as defined above) is equal to or
 
greater than "SP
0
" (as defined above), in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, each Holder of Notes shall receive, at the same time and upon the same terms as holders of the Common Stock, the amount and kind of securities and assets such Holder would have received as if such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for the distribution of the securities or assets.
With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.04(c) where there has been a payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit (a ""), the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
Spin-Off
where
 
The adjustment to the Conversion Rate under the preceding paragraph will occur immediately after the end of the Valuation Period; that in respect of any conversion during the Valuation Period, references above to ten Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the Ex-Dividend Date of such Spin-Off and the Conversion Date in determining the applicable Conversion Rate.
provided
For the purposes of this Section 4.04(c) (and subject in all respects to Section 4.12), rights or warrants distributed by the Company to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Company's Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events (a ""): (1) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (2) are not exercisable; and (3) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common
Trigger Event
 
Stock, shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of this Section 4.04(c), (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 4.04(c) will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event, whereupon such rights and warrants shall be deemed to have been distributed and an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made under this Section 4.04(c). If any such right or warrant, including any such existing rights or warrants distributed prior to the date of this Supplemental Indenture, are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Ex-Dividend Date of such deemed distribution (in which case the original rights or warrants shall be deemed to terminate and expire on such date without exercise by any of the holders). In addition, in the event of any distribution or deemed distribution of rights or warrants, or any Trigger Event or other event (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 4.04(c) was made, (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants which shall all have been redeemed or purchased without exercise by any Holders thereof, upon such final redemption or repurchase (x) the Conversion Rate shall readjusted as if such rights or warrants had not been issued and (y) the Conversion Rate shall then again be readjusted to give effect to such distribution, deemed distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or purchase price received by holders of Common Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming each such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or purchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants which shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights and warrants had not been issued.
For the purposes of this Section 4.04(c) and subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 4.04, any dividend or distribution to which this Section 4.04(c) applies which also includes one or both of:
 
 
then (1) such dividend or distribution, other than the Clause A Distribution and the Clause B Distribution, shall be deemed to be a dividend or distribution to which this Section 4.04(c) applies (the "") and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 4.04(c) with respect thereto shall then be made, and (2) the Clause A Distribution and Clause B Distribution shall be deemed to immediately follow the Clause C Distribution and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 4.04(a) and Section 4.04(b) with respect thereto shall then be made, except, if determined by the Company, (I) the "Ex-Dividend Date" of the Clause A Distribution and the Clause B Distribution shall be deemed to be the Ex-Dividend Date of the Clause C Distribution and (II) any shares of Common Stock included in the Clause A
Clause C Distribution
 
Distribution or Clause B Distribution shall be deemed not to be "outstanding immediately prior to the opening of business on such Ex-Dividend Date or such effective date" within the meaning of Section 4.04(a) or "outstanding immediately prior to the opening of business on such Ex-Dividend Date" within the meaning of Section 4.04(b).
(d) (i) If any regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution made to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock during any quarterly fiscal period exceeds $0.04 (the ""), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
Initial Dividend Threshold
where
 
The Initial Dividend Threshold shall be adjusted in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Conversion Rate; that no adjustment shall be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) of this Section 4.04(d).
provided
(ii) If the Company pays any cash dividend or distribution that is not a regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where
 
 
In the case of an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.04(d), such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for the relevant dividend or distribution. If the portion of the cash so distributed applicable to one share of the Common Stock is equal to or greater than the Last Reported Sale Price of a share of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution, in lieu of the adjustment set forth above, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder of Notes shall have the right to receive on the date on which such cash dividend or distribution is distributed to holders of Common Stock, for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes, the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution.
(e) If the Company or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer for Common Stock, to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Last Reported Sale Price per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer, the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
where
 
 
The adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 4.04(e) shall occur as of the close of business on the tenth Trading Day from, and including, the Trading Day next succeeding the date such tender or exchange offer expires; that in respect of any conversion within 10 Trading Days immediately following, and including, the expiration date of any tender or exchange offer, references with respect to 10 Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the expiration date of such tender or exchange offer and the Conversion Date in determining the applicable Conversion Rate.
provided
(f) For purposes of this Section 4.04, "" shall mean, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
record date
(g) The Company from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time if the period is at least 20 Business Days, the increase is irrevocable during the period and the Board of Directors shall have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of the Company, which determination shall be conclusive. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased pursuant to this Section 4.04(g), the Company shall mail to Holders of record of the Notes a notice of the increase at least one day prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect, and such notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect.
(h) The Company may (but shall not be required to) make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to any adjustments pursuant to Section 4.04(a), 4.04(b), 4.04(c), 4.04(d), 4.04(e) or 4.04(g), as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of shares (or rights to acquire shares) or similar event treated as such for income tax purposes.
 
(i) All calculations under this Article 4 shall be made by the Company and shall be made to the nearest cent (including, in the case of any adjustment to the Conversion Rate, the resulting adjustment to the Conversion Price) or to the nearest one ten-thousandth of a share, as the case may be. No adjustment shall be required to be made for the Company's issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock or rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or such convertible or exchangeable securities, other than as provided in this Section 4.04 and in Section 4.12 hereof.
(j) Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received such Officers' Certificate, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Conversion Rate and may assume without inquiry that the last Conversion Rate of which it has knowledge is still in effect. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate to each Holder of the Notes. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
(k) For purposes of this Section 4.04, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company so long as the Company does not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company, but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
(l) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the application of the foregoing formulas set forth in this Section 4.04 would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made (other than as a result of a share split or share combination).
(m) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article 4, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made for:
(i) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Company's securities and the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan;
(ii) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(iii) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security not described in clause (ii) above and outstanding as of the date the Notes were first issued;
 
(iv) a change in the par value of the Common Stock; or
(v) accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes.
(n) The Company shall not be required to make an adjustment in the Conversion Rate unless the adjustment would require a change of at least 1% in the Conversion Rate. However, the Company will carry forward any adjustments that are less than 1% of the Conversion Rate and make such carried forward adjustment, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1%, (i) upon any conversion of Notes and (ii) on each Trading Day of any Observation Period.
SECTION 4.05Whenever a provision of this Supplemental Indenture requires the calculation of Last Reported Sale Prices or Daily VWAP over a span of multiple days, the Company will make appropriate adjustments to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate where the Ex-Dividend Date of the event occurs, at any time during the period from which such prices are to be calculated.
. Adjustments of Average Prices.
SECTION 4.06. . (a) If a Make-Whole Fundamental Change occurs and a Holder elects to convert its Notes in connection with such Make-Whole Fundamental Change, the Company shall, under certain circumstances, increase the Conversion Rate for the Notes so surrendered for conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the "") as described below. A conversion of Notes shall be deemed for these purposes to be "in connection with" such Make-Whole Fundamental Change if the notice of conversion of the Notes is received by the Conversion Agent from, and including, the Effective Date of the Make-Whole Fundamental Change up to, and including, the Business Day immediately prior to the related Fundamental Change Purchase Date (or, in the case of an event that would have been a Fundamental Change but for the proviso in clause (3) of the definition thereof, the 35th Trading Day immediately following the Effective Date of such Make-Whole Fundamental Change).
Adjustments Upon Certain Fundamental Changes
Additional Shares
(b) The number of Additional Shares by which the Conversion Rate will be increased will be determined by reference to the table attached as hereto, based on the date on which the Make-Whole Fundamental Change occurs or becomes effective (the "") and the price (the "") paid (or deemed paid) per share of the Company's Common Stock in the Fundamental Change. If the holders of the Common Stock receive only cash in a Make-Whole Fundamental Change described in clause (3) of the definition of Fundamental Change, the Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock over the ten Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day preceding the Effective Date of the Make-Whole Fundamental Change.
Schedule A
Effective Date
Stock Price
(c) The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the table in hereto shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Notes is otherwise adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices shall equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to such adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Additional Shares set forth in such table shall be adjusted in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 4.04.
Schedule A
 
(d) The table in hereto sets forth the amount if any by which the Conversion Rate per $1,000 principal amount of Notes will increase for each Stock Price and Effective Date set forth in the table.
Schedule A
The exact Stock Prices and Effective Dates may not be set forth in the table in , in which case:
Schedule A
(i) If the Stock Price is between two Stock Prices in the table or the Effective Date is between two Effective Dates in the table, the number of Additional Shares shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Additional Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Prices and the earlier and later Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year.
(ii) If the Stock Price is greater than $100 per share (subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Stock Prices set forth in the table in Schedule A pursuant to Section 4.06(c) above), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate.
(iii) If the Stock Price is less than $12.75 per share (subject to adjustments in the same manner as the Stock Prices set forth in the table in Schedule A pursuant to Section 4.06(c) above), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Conversion Rate exceed 78.4313 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustments in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 4.04.
SECTION 4.07 If any of the following events occur:
. Effect of Recapitalization, Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale.
(i) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of the Company's Common Stock (other than changes resulting from a subdivision or combination);
(ii) any consolidation, merger or combination involving the Company;
(iii) any sale, lease or other transfer to a third party of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries substantially as an entirety; or
(iv) any statutory share exchange;
in each case of clauses (i)  (iv) as a result of which the Common Stock would be converted into, exchanged for, or would be reclassified or changed into, stock, other securities, other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof), then at the effective time of such transaction, the Company or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute with the
 
Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture) providing that at and after the effective time of such transaction, (i) the right to convert a Note will be changed into a right to convert it (on a net share settled basis) as set forth in this Indenture into the kind and amount of shares of stock, other securities or other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof) that a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversation Rate prior to such transaction would have owned or been entitled to receive (the "", with each "unit of Reference Property" meaning the type and amount of Reference Property that a holder of one share of Common Stock would receive) upon such transaction, and (ii) upon conversion of a Note, the Holder shall receive the Settlement Amount owing upon conversion calculated in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03, determined based on the Daily Settlement Amounts calculated with respect to a unit of Reference Property, the Daily VWAP of such unit of Reference Property and the Conversion Rate, as described in Section 4.03 (as if such unit of Reference Property were a share of Common Stock). If the transaction causes Common Stock to be converted into the right to receive more than a single type of consideration (determined based in part upon any from of stockholder election), (x) the Reference Property into which the Notes will be convertible (on a net-share settled basis) as set forth in this Indenture shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make such an election, and (y) the unit of Reference Property for purposes of the foregoing sentence shall refer to the consideration referred to in clause (x) attributable to one share of Common Stock. The Company shall not become a party to any such transaction unless its terms are consistent with this Section 4.07. Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 4 in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the board of directors of the successor Person. If, in the case of any such recapitalization, reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, combination, sale, lease, other transfer or statutory share exchange, the Reference Property receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock includes shares of stock, securities or other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof) of a Person other than the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, in such reorganization, reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, combination, sale, lease, other transfer or statutory share exchange, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other Person.
Reference Property
The Company shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Holder, at the address of such Holder as it appears on the register of the Notes maintained by the Registrar, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture. The above provisions of this Section shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications, changes, consolidations, mergers, combinations, sales and conveyances. If this Section 4.07 applies to any event or occurrence, Section 4.04 shall not apply.
SECTION 4.08Any issue of stock certificates on conversions of Notes shall be made without charge to the converting Holder for any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax in respect of the issue thereof, and the Company shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes that may be payable in respect of the issue
. Taxes on Shares Issued.
 
or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversion of Notes pursuant hereto. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of shares of Common Stock in any name other than that of the Holder of any Notes converted, and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any such stock certificate unless and until the person or persons requesting the issue thereof shall have paid to the Company the amount of such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid.
SECTION 4.09The Company shall provide, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock to satisfy conversion of the Notes from time to time as such Notes are presented for conversion (assuming that, at the time of the computation of such number of shares or securities, all such Notes would be converted by a single Holder).
. Reservation of Shares; Shares to be Fully Paid; Compliance With Governmental Requirements; Listing of Common Stock.
The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock that may be issued upon conversion of Notes shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free from any tax, lien or charge (other than those created by the Holder).
The Company shall list or cause to have quoted any shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of Notes on each national securities exchange or over-the-counter or other domestic market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
SECTION 4.10The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder of Notes to determine or calculate the Conversion Rate or whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Conversion Rate, or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental indenture provided to be employed, in making the same. The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the conversion of any Notes; and the Trustee and any other Conversion Agent make no representations with respect thereto. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock or stock certificates or other securities or property or cash upon the surrender of any Notes for the purpose of conversion or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Article 4. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any responsibility to determine the correctness of any provisions contained in any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to Section 4.07 relating either to the kind or amount of shares of stock or securities or property (including cash or any combination thereof) receivable by Holders upon the conversion of their Notes after any event referred to in such Section 4.07 or to any adjustment to be made with respect thereto, but, subject to the provisions of Section 7.2 of the Original Indenture, may accept as conclusive evidence of the correctness of any such provisions, and shall be protected in relying upon, the Officers' Certificate (which the Company shall be obligated to file with the Trustee prior to the execution of any such supplemental indenture) with respect thereto.
. Responsibility of Trustee.
 
SECTION 4.11. . In case:
Notice to Holders Prior to Certain Actions
(a) the Company shall declare a dividend (or any other distribution) on its Common Stock that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.04; or
(b) the Company shall authorize the granting to the holders of all or substantially all of its Common Stock of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any share of any class or any other rights or warrants that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.04 or Section 4.12 hereof; or
(c) of any reclassification or reorganization of the Common Stock of the Company (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, or a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value), or of any consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party and for which approval of any stockholders of the Company is required, or of the sale, lease or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries; or
(d) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
then, in each case (unless notice of such event is otherwise required pursuant to another provision of this Supplemental Indenture), the Company shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent and to be mailed to each Holder of Notes at such Holder's address appearing on a list of Holders of Notes, which the Company shall provide to the Trustee, as promptly as practicable but in any event at least 10 days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend (or any other distribution) or rights or warrants, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution or rights or warrants are to be determined, or (y) the date on which such reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale, lease, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up is expected to become effective or occur, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such dividend (or any other distribution), reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
SECTION 4.12Each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes pursuant to this Article 4 shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of rights, if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such conversion shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of any stockholder rights plan adopted by the Company, as the same may be amended from time to
. Stockholder Rights Plan.
 
time. If prior to any conversion, however, such rights have separated from the shares of Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the applicable stockholder rights agreement, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company distributed to all holders of the Common Stock, shares of the Company's Capital Stock, evidences of indebtedness, assets, property, rights or warrants as described in Section 4.04(c) above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.
SECTION 5.01In addition to the Events of Default specified in Section 6.1 of the Original Indenture, with respect to the Notes each of the following events shall be an "" wherever used herein:
. Events of Default.
Event of Default
(a) failure by the Company to comply with its obligation to convert the Notes in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture upon exercise of a Holder's conversion right in accordance with Article 4 hereof;
(b) failure by the Company to provide a Fundamental Change Company Notice pursuant to Section 3.01(b) or notice of a specified corporate transaction required by Section 4.01(a)(iii) or Section 4.01(a)(iv) in accordance with the relevant Section, in each case when due;
(c) default by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company with respect to any mortgage, agreement or other instrument under which there may be outstanding, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness for money borrowed in excess of $50 million in the aggregate of the Company and/or any Subsidiary of the Company, whether such indebtedness exists as of the date hereof or shall hereafter be created (i) resulting in such indebtedness becoming or being declared due and payable or (ii) constituting a failure to pay the principal or interest of any such indebtedness when due and payable at its stated maturity, upon required repurchase, upon declaration or otherwise;
(d) a final judgment for the payment of $50 million or more (excluding any amounts covered by insurance) rendered against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of the Company, which judgment is not discharged or stayed within 60 days after (i) the date on which the right to appeal thereof has expired if no such appeal has commenced or (ii) the date on which all rights to appeal have been extinguished;
(f) an involuntary case or other proceeding shall be commenced against a Significant Subsidiary of the Company with respect to it or its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, and such involuntary case or other proceeding shall remain undismissed and unstayed for a period of 60 days; or an order for relief shall be entered against a Significant Subsidiary of the Company under the federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect; and
 
(g) a Significant Subsidiary of the Company (A) commences a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consents to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, (B) consents to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of a Significant Subsidiary of the Company or for all or substantially all of the property and assets of a Significant Subsidiary of the Company or (C) effects any general assignment for the benefit of creditors.
SECTION 5.02. Notwithstanding any provisions of the Indenture to the contrary, if the Company so elects, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to any obligation to file reports with the Trustee as required by Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act or by Section 2.04 hereof or Section 4.6(d) of the Original Indenture, shall for the first 180 days following the occurrence of such Event of Default consist exclusively of the right to receive additional interest on the Notes equal to 0.50% of the principal amount of the Notes (""). In order to elect to pay Additional Interest as the sole remedy during the first 180 days after the occurrence of an Event of Default described in the preceding sentence, the Company must (i) give notice to Holders of the Notes, the Trustee and the Paying Agent of such election on or before the close of business on the 5th Business Day after the date on which such Event of Default occurs and (ii) pay such Additional Interest on or before the date on which such Event of Default first occurs. Upon the failure to timely give all Holders, the Trustee and the Paying Agent such notice, the Notes will be subject to acceleration as provided in Section 5.03 hereof. On the 180th day after such Event of Default occurs (if such Event of Default is not cured or waived prior to such 180th day), the Notes shall be subject to acceleration as provided in Section 5.03 hereof. This Section 5.02 shall not affect the rights of Holders of Notes in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default. Whenever in the Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of interest on, or in respect of, any Note, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Interest provided for in this Section 5.02 to the extent that, in such context, Additional Interest is, was or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5.02, and express mention of the payment of Additional Interest (if applicable) in any provision shall not be construed as excluding Additional Interest in those provisions where such express mention is not made.
Additional Interest.
Additional Interest
SECTION 5.03. . If an Event of Default described in Section 6.1(c) of the Original Indenture or in Section 5.01 hereof, occurs and is continuing, then, except for any Notes the principal of which shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), may declare the entire principal amount of all of the Notes, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable. The provisions of Section 6.2 of the Original Indenture shall otherwise remain applicable to the Notes.
Acceleration
 
SECTION 6.01. . (a) The satisfaction and discharge provisions set forth in this Article 6 shall, with respect to the Notes, supersede the entirety of Article 8 of the Original Indenture, and all references in the Original Indenture to Article 8 thereof and satisfaction and discharge provisions therein, as the case may be, shall, with respect to the Notes, be deemed to be references to this Article 6 and the satisfaction and discharge provisions set forth in this Article 6, respectively. When (i) the Company shall deliver to the Registrar for cancellation all Notes theretofore authenticated (other than any Notes that have been destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) and not theretofore canceled, or (ii) all the Notes not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable (whether at Stated Maturity for the payment of the principal amount thereof, on any Fundamental Change Purchase Date or following the last day of the applicable Observation Period upon conversion or otherwise) and the Company shall deposit with the Trustee, in trust, or deliver to the Holders, as applicable, cash funds and shares of Common Stock, as applicable, sufficient to pay all amounts due (and shares of Common Stock deliverable following conversion, if applicable) on all of such Notes (other than any Notes that shall have been mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen and in lieu of or in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered) not theretofore canceled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal and interest due, accompanied, except in the event the Notes are due and payable solely in cash at the Stated Maturity of the Notes or upon an earlier Fundamental Change Purchase Date, by a verification report as to the sufficiency of the deposited amount from an independent certified accountant or other financial professional reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which may include any of the Underwriters), and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Supplemental Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as to (A) rights hereunder of Holders of the Notes to receive all amounts owing upon the Notes and the other rights, duties and obligations of Holders of the Notes, as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the amounts, if any, so deposited with the Trustee and (B) the rights, obligations and immunities of the Trustee hereunder), and the Trustee, on written demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as required by Section 10.3 of the Original Indenture and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Supplemental Indenture; the Company, however, hereby agrees to reimburse the Trustee for any costs or expenses thereafter reasonably and properly incurred by the Trustee and to compensate the Trustee for any services thereafter reasonably and properly rendered by the Trustee in connection with this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes.
Satisfaction and Discharge of the Supplemental Indenture
SECTION 6.02Subject to Section 6.04, all monies deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.01 shall be held in trust for the sole benefit of the Holders of the Notes, and such monies shall be applied by the Trustee to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company if acting as its own Paying Agent), to the Holders of the particular Notes for the payment or redemption of which such monies have been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal and interest, if any.
. Deposited Monies to Be Held in Trust by Trustee.
 
SECTION 6.03. . Upon the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, all monies then held by any Paying Agent of the Notes (other than the Trustee) shall, upon written request of the Company, be repaid to it or paid to the Trustee, and thereupon such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such monies.
Paying Agent to Repay Monies Held
SECTION 6.04. . Subject to the requirements of applicable law, any monies deposited with or paid to the Trustee for payment of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes and not applied but remaining unclaimed by the Holders of the Notes for two years after the date upon which the principal of or interest, if any, on such Notes, as the case may be, shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee on demand and all liability of the Trustee shall thereupon cease with respect to such monies; and the Holder of any of the Notes shall thereafter look only to the Company for any payment that such Holder of the Notes may be entitled to collect unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
Return of Unclaimed Monies
SECTION 6.05. . If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 6.02 by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Supplemental Indenture, the Original Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 6.01 until such time as the Trustee or the Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 6.02; , , that if the Company makes any payment of interest on or principal of any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
provided
however
SECTION 7.01. In addition to any permitted amendment or supplement to the Indenture pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Original Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes without notice to or the consent of any Holder of the Notes:
. Amendments or Supplements Without Consent of Holders
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7.02. Subject to Section 6.4, Section 6.7 and Section 9.2 of the Original Indenture and to the second sentence of this Section 7.02, but notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 9.2 of the Original Indenture to the contrary, the Company and the Trustee may only amend the Indenture with respect to the Notes and the Notes with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Notes), and only the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by written notice to the Trustee may waive future compliance by the Company with any provision of the Indenture, with respect to the Notes, or the Notes (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Notes). Notwithstanding the foregoing provision and in addition to the provisions of the second paragraph of Section 9.2 of the Original Indenture, without the consent of each Holder of an outstanding Note affected by thereby, an amendment or waiver, including a waiver in relation to a past Event of Default, may not:
Amendments, Supplements or Waivers With Consent of Holders.
 
 
SECTION 8.01. The provisions of Section 4.3. and 4.4 of the Original Indenture shall not be applicable to the Notes.
Negative Pledge and Certain Sale and Lease-back Transactions.
SECTION 9.01THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND EACH OF THE NOTES.
. Governing Law.
SECTION 9.02If any Interest Payment Date or the Stated Maturity of the Notes or any earlier required repurchase date would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment shall accrue in respect of the delay.
. Payments on Business Days.
 
SECTION 9.03Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes, expressed or implied, shall be construed to constitute a security interest under the Uniform Commercial Code or similar legislation, as now or hereafter enacted and in effect, in any jurisdiction.
. No Security Interest Created.
SECTION 9.04This Supplemental Indenture is hereby made subject to, and shall be governed by, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act required to be part of and to govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof or the Original Indenture that is required to be included in an indenture qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
. Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 9.05Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes, expressed or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Paying Agent, any Conversion Agent, any Bid Solicitation Agent, any authenticating agent, any Registrar and their successors hereunder or the Holders of the Notes, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture.
. Benefits of Indenture.
SECTION 9.06Except as otherwise provided in this Supplemental Indenture, the Company shall be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Notes. These calculations include, but are not limited to, determinations of any Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock, accrued interest payable on the Notes and the Conversion Rate of the Notes. The Company shall make all these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, the Company's calculations shall be final and binding on Holders of Notes. The Company shall provide a schedule of its calculations to each of the Trustee and the Conversion Agent (if different than the Trustee), and each of the Trustee and Conversion Agent (if different than the Trustee) is entitled to rely conclusively upon the accuracy of the Company's calculations without independent verification. The Trustee will forward the Company's calculations to any Holder of Notes upon the request of that Holder at the sole cost and expense of the Company.
. Calculations.
SECTION 9.07.The table of contents and the titles and headings of the articles and sections of this Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
. Table of Contents, Headings, Etc
SECTION 9.08This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
. Execution in Counterparts.
SECTION 9.09In the event any provision of this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, then (to the extent permitted by law) the validity, legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired.
. Severability.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
SCHEDULE A
The following table sets forth the amount if any by which the Conversion Rate per $1,000 principal amount of Notes will increase pursuant to Section 4.06 of this Supplemental Indenture for each Stock Price and Effective Date set forth below:
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. THIS NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
 
CUSIP No. 902494 AP8
Tyson Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, Dollars ($) (or such lesser principal amount as shall be specified in the "Schedule of Exchanges of Securities" attached hereto) on October 15, 2013 unless earlier converted or repurchased, and to pay interest thereon as set forth in the manner, at the rates and to the Persons set forth in the Indenture.
Company
                    
                    
This Note shall bear interest at a rate of 3.25% per annum from September 15, 2008 or from the most recent date to which interest had been paid or provided to, but excluding, the next scheduled Interest Payment Date, until the principal hereof shall be repaid. Interest on this Note will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on each April 15 and October 15, commencing on April 15, 2009, to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest. Additional Interest will be payable at the option of the Company on the terms set forth in Section 5.02 of the within-mentioned Supplemental Indenture.
The Company shall pay principal of and interest on this Note, so long as such Note is a Global Note, in immediately available funds to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, as the registered Holder of such Note. The Company shall pay principal of any Notes (other than Notes that are Global Notes) at the office or agency designated by the Company for that purpose. The Company has initially designated the Trustee as its Paying Agent and Registrar in respect of the Notes and its agency in New York, New York as a place where Notes may be presented for payment or for registration of transfer. The Company may, however, change the Paying Agent or Registrar for the Notes without prior notice to the Holders thereof, and the Company may act as Paying Agent or Registrar. Interest on the Notes (other than Notes that are Global Notes) will be payable (i) to Holders of the Notes having an aggregate principal amount of Notes of $5,000,000 or less, by check mailed to the Holders of these Notes at their address in the Security Register and (ii) to Holders having an aggregate principal amount of Notes in excess of $5,000,000, either by check mailed to each Holder at its address in the Security Register or, upon application by a Holder to the Registrar not later than the relevant Regular Record Date, by wire transfer in immediately available funds to that Holder's account within the United States, which application shall remain in effect until that Holder notifies, in writing, the Registrar to the contrary.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
In the case of any conflict between this Note and the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall control. This Note, for all purposes, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, TYSON FOODS, INC. has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
Dated: September 15, 2008
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: September 15, 2008
 
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued under an Indenture dated as of June 1, 1995 (herein called the ""), as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 15, 2008 (herein called the "" and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, the "") by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.)), herein called the "", and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. Additional Notes may be issued in an unlimited aggregate principal amount, subject to certain conditions specified in the Indenture.
Notes
Original Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Trustee
This Note is not subject to redemption at the option of the Company prior to October 15, 2013 and, for the avoidance of doubt, this Note is not subject to the provisions of Article 3 of the Original Indenture.
This Note is not subject to the provisions in Section 4.3 or Section 4.4 of the Original Indenture, and the provisions in Article 6 of the Supplemental Indenture supersede the entirety of Article 8 of the Original Indenture.
Upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Holder has the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to repurchase all of such Holder's Notes or any portion thereof (in principal amounts of $1,000 or integral multiples thereof) on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date at a price equal to the Fundamental Change Purchase Price.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder hereof has the right, at its option, during certain periods and upon the occurrence of certain conditions specified in the Indenture, prior to the close of business on the second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding October 15, 2013, to convert this Note or a portion thereof that is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, into cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, at the applicable Conversion Rate specified in the Indenture, as adjusted from time to time as provided in the Indenture.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Company will make all payments and deliveries in respect of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price and the principal amount on the Stated Maturity thereof, as the case may be, to the holder who surrenders a Note to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Note. The Company will pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Notes to be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Notes, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, in case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of and interest on all Notes may be declared due and payable, by either the Trustee or Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding, and upon said declaration shall become due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture; that upon the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(d) or (e) of the Original Indenture, the principal amount of, and interest on, all the Notes shall automatically become due and payable.
provided
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin and currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or Trustee may treat the Person in whose name the Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
All defined terms used in this Note that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
ABBREVIATIONS
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription of the face of this Note, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
SCHEDULE A
The initial principal amount of this Registered Global Security is ($). The following, exchanges, purchases or conversions of a part of this Registered Global Security have been made:
                            
                    
 
 
EXHIBIT B
To: Tyson Foods, Inc.
The undersigned owner of this Note hereby irrevocably exercises the option to convert this Note, or a portion hereof (which is $1,000 or an integral multiple hereof) below designated, into cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this Note, and directs that cash payable and any shares of Common Stock issuable and deliverable upon conversion, together with any check in payment for fractional shares of Common Stock, and any Notes representing any unconverted principal amount hereof, be paid or issued and delivered, as the case may be, to the registered Holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, if this notice is being delivered on a date after the close of business on a Regular Record Date and prior to the opening of business on the related Interest Payment Date, this notice is accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date of the principal of this Note to be converted. If any shares of Common Stock are to be issued in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay all transfer taxes payable with respect hereto. Any amount required to be paid by the undersigned on account of interest accompanies this Note.
Principal amount to be converted (in an integral multiple of $1,000, if less than all):
$
                                         
 
 
Fill in for registration of any shares of Common Stock and Notes if to be issued otherwise than to the registered Holder.
 
 
EXHIBIT C
To: Tyson Foods, Inc.
The undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from Tyson Foods, Inc. (the "") as to the occurrence of a Fundamental Change with respect to the Company and specifying the Fundamental Change Purchase Date and requests and instructs the Company to repay to the registered holder hereof in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Note and the Indenture referred to in this Note (1) the entire principal amount of this Note, or the portion thereof (that is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, and (2) if such Fundamental Change Purchase Date does not fall during the period after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, such Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
Company
In the case of certificated Notes, the certificate numbers of the Notes to be repurchased are as set forth below:
Dated:
                                                                                                  
 
 
EXHIBIT D
For value received hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto (Please insert social security or Taxpayer Identification Number of assignee) the within Note, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                             
                                
                                        
Dated:
                                         
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We are acting as counsel for Tyson Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the issuance of and sale by the Company of up to 23,000,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share (the "Shares"), and $517,500,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the "Convertible Notes") pursuant to the prospectus supplements dated September 9, 2008 (the "Prospectus Supplements") supplementing the prospectus dated September 4, 2008 (the "Base Prospectus") that forms part of the Post-Effective Amendment No. 1, dated September 4, 2008 (the "Post-Effective Amendment"), which amends the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-132434) (as amended by the Post-Effective Amendment, the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). As noted below, certain of the Convertible Notes have been, and additional Convertible Notes may be, issued under an Indenture dated as of June 1, 1995 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated as of September 15, 2008 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture") relating to the Convertible Notes.
We have examined (i) the Base Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplements, (ii) the Registration Statement, (iii) the Indenture, (iv) the Convertible Notes in global form, (v) the executed Underwriting Agreements, each dated September 9, 2008 (the "Underwriting Agreements"), among the Company and the several underwriters named therein relating to the Shares and the Convertible Notes, respectively, (vii) certain resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted on September 3, 2008, as certified by the Secretary of the Company on the date hereof as being true, complete and correct and in full force and effect, relating to, among other things, the execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreements and the sale of the Shares and the Convertible Notes and (viii) certain resolutions of the Offering Committee of the
Tyson Foods, Inc.
September 15, 2008
Page 2
Board of Directors of the Company adopted on September 9, 2008, as certified by the Secretary of the Company on the date hereof as being true, complete and correct and in full force and effect, relating to, among other things, the sale of the Shares and the Convertible Notes (the "Offering Committee Resolutions"). We have also examined such records, documents and questions of law, and satisfied ourselves as to such matters of fact, as we have considered relevant and necessary as a basis for the opinions set forth below.
In rendering the opinions set forth below, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as duplicates or certified or conformed copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents. We also have assumed that the Indenture is the valid and legally binding obligation of the Trustee.
Based on the foregoing and subject to the qualifications and limitations set forth below, we are of the opinion that:
 
 
 
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
September 15, 2008
Page 3
 
For the purposes of this opinion letter, we have assumed that, at the time of the issuance, sale and delivery of the Shares and the Convertible Notes pursuant to the respective over-allotment options: (i) the authorization thereof by the Company will not have been modified or rescinded, and there will not have occurred any change in law affecting the validity, legally binding character or enforceability thereof; (ii) the Indenture will not have been modified or amended; and (iii) the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of the Company, as currently in effect, will not have been modified or amended and will be in full force and effect.
This opinion letter is limited to the federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
We do not find it necessary for the purposes of this opinion letter to cover, and accordingly we express no opinion as to, the application of the securities or blue sky laws of the various states to sales of the Securities.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as an Exhibit to the filing by the Company of a Current Report on Form 8-K on the date hereof, which Form 8-K will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, and to all references to our firm included in or made a part of the Prospectus. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the Securities Act or the related rules or regulations promulgated thereunder by the SEC.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
EXECUTION COPY
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
P.O. Box 161
60 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0JP
England
To: Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.: (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No.:(479) 757-6868
Re: Call Option Transaction
The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the call option transaction entered into between JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch ("") and Tyson Foods, Inc. ("") as of the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This letter agreement constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below. This Confirmation shall replace any previous agreements and serve as the final documentation for this Transaction.
Confirmation
Dealer
Counterparty
Transaction
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ("") are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. Certain defined terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the prospectus dated September 4, 2008, as supplanted by the prospectus supplement dated September 10, 2008 (collectively, the "") relating to the USD 450,000,000 principal amount of 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due October 15, 2013, (the "" and each USD 1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, a "") issued by Counterparty pursuant to an indenture dated June 1, 1995 between Counterparty and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "") (the ""), as supplemented by the supplemental indenture between Counterparty and the Trustee to be dated September 15, 2008 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""). In the event of any inconsistency between the terms defined in the Prospectus, the Indenture and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. The parties acknowledge that this Confirmation is entered into on the date hereof with the understanding that (i) definitions set forth in the Indenture which are also defined herein by reference to the Indenture and (ii) sections of the Indenture that are referred to herein will conform to the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus. If any such definitions in the Indenture or any such sections of the Indenture differ from the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus, the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus will govern for purposes of this Confirmation. The parties further acknowledge that the Indenture section numbers used herein are based on the draft of the Indenture last reviewed by Dealer as of the date of this Confirmation, and if any such section numbers are changed in the Indenture as executed, the parties will amend this Confirmation in good faith to preserve the intent of the parties. For the avoidance of doubt, references to the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be, herein are references to the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be, as in effect on the date of its execution and if the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture is amended following its execution, any such amendment will be disregarded for purposes of this Confirmation unless the parties agree otherwise in writing.
Equity Definitions
ISDA
Prospectus
Convertible Notes
Convertible Note
Trustee
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Counterparty as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Counterparty had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
2. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Account Details:
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza
New York, NY
ABA # 021000021
Account Name : Tyson Foods, Inc.
Account No. : 304182427
Account for delivery of Shares to Counterparty:
To be provided by Counterparty
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, New York
ABA: 021 000 021
Favour: JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association  London
A/C: 0010962009 CHASUS33
Account for delivery of Shares from Dealer:
DTC 0060
6. Offices:
The Office of Counterparty for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Dealer for the Transaction is: London
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
London Branch
P.O. Box 161
60 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0JP
England
7. Notices: For purposes of this Confirmation:
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.: (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No: (479) 757-6868
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
277 Park Avenue, 11
th
Floor
New York, NY 10172
Attention: Mariusz Kwasnik
Title: Operations Analyst
EDG Corporate Marketing
Telephone No: (212) 622-6707
Facsimile No: (212) 622-8534
8. Representations and Warranties of Counterparty
The representations and warranties of Counterparty set forth in Section 1 of the Convertible Notes Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of September 9, 2008 among Counterparty, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as representatives of the Underwriters are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein. Counterparty hereby further represents and warrants to Dealer that:
Underwriting Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
Counterparty is a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, organization, trust or other entity and:
 
 
 
 
9. Other Provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) Dealer may, without Counterparty's consent, transfer or assign all or any part of its rights or obligations under the Transaction:
 
 
 
 
(2) Counterparty has not fully performed its notice obligations under Section 9(b); or
(3) based in part upon advice of counsel and as a result of events occurring after the Trade Date, Dealer determines that it would be inadvisable for it to engage in any alternative hedging transactions or other arrangements (other than transfer, assignment or termination of this Transaction), which would enable it to reduce its "beneficial ownership" (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promoted thereunder).
 
Dealer shall promptly provide Counterparty a written notice of such transfer or assignment pursuant to this clause (ii). "" means Dealer and each business unit of its affiliates subject to aggregation with Dealer under Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder.
Dealer Group
(iii) If after Dealer's commercially reasonable efforts, Dealer is unable to effect such a transfer or assignment pursuant to clause (ii) above, when the Transaction is assignable or transferable pursuant to such clause, on pricing terms reasonably acceptable to Dealer and within a time period reasonably acceptable to Dealer, of a sufficient number of Options to reduce (1) the number of shares that Dealer Group directly or indirectly beneficially owns (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) to 7.5% of Counterparty's outstanding Shares or less or (2) the Option Equity Percentage to 14.5% or less, Dealer may designate any Exchange Business Day as an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion (the "") of this Transaction, such that (1) the number of Shares that Dealer Group directly or indirectly beneficially owns (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) following such partial termination will be equal to or less than 7.5% of Counterparty's outstanding Shares or (2) the Option Equity Percentage following such partial termination will be equal to or less than 14.5%. In the event that Dealer so designates an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion of this Transaction, a payment shall be made pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement as if (1) an Early Termination Date had been designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to this Transaction and a Number of Options equal to the Terminated Portion, (2) Counterparty shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such partial termination and (3) such Transaction shall be the only Terminated Transaction (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of Section 9(l) shall apply to any amount that is payable by Dealer to Counterparty pursuant to this sentence as if Counterparty was not the Affected Party).
Terminated Portion
(iv) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Dealer to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any shares or other securities to or from Counterparty, Dealer may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such shares or other securities and otherwise to perform Dealer's obligations in respect of this Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. Dealer shall be discharged of its obligations to Counterparty to the extent of any such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Confirmation, the giving of any Notice of Exercise shall constitute an Additional Termination Event hereunder with respect to the number, if any, of Exercisable Options specified in such Notice of Exercise as corresponding to a conversion of Convertible Notes to which the provisions of Section 4.06 of the Supplemental Indenture apply. Upon receipt of any such Notice, Dealer shall designate an Exchange Business Day as an Early Termination Date (such day to occur as close as practicable, in Dealer's commercially reasonable judgment, to the settlement date of the relevant Convertible Notes), with respect to the portion of this Transaction corresponding to number of such Exercisable Options so specified. The amount payable by Dealer to Counterparty pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement upon such early termination shall be satisfied solely by delivery by Dealer to Counterparty of a number of Shares (and cash in lieu of fractional Shares) equal to the lesser of:
(1) the product of (i) the Applicable Percentage and (ii) the aggregate number of Shares, if any, that Counterparty is required to deliver to the holders of the relevant Convertible Notes, after taking into account any applicable adjustments to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Supplemental Indenture and
 
(2) the number of Shares equal to (i) the amount (the "") calculated pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement in respect of such Additional Termination Event (without regard to this section) (ii) a price per Share determined by the Calculation Agent; that for the purposes of determining the Unwind Amount, (A) Counterparty shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such Additional Termination Event, (B) Dealer shall be the party entitled to designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement; and (C) for the avoidance of doubt, the Calculation Agent (i) shall take into account the time value of this Transaction from the Early Termination Date to the Expiration Date and (ii) shall not take into account any adjustments to the Option Entitlement that result from corresponding adjustments to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Supplemental Indenture; that in case of a partial termination, an Early Termination Date shall be designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to this Transaction and a Number of Options equal to the terminated portion and such Transaction shall be the only Terminated Transaction.
Unwind Amount
divided by
provided
provided further
For the avoidance of doubt, (A) at the effective time of a Merger Event, each Share shall be deemed a unit of Reference Property and (B) the number of Shares (and cash in lieu of fractional Shares) payable by Dealer to Counterparty pursuant to this Section 9(i)(ii) upon such early termination shall be no less than the aggregate number of Net Shares for each Option terminated pursuant to this Section 9(i)(ii), determined by the Calculation Agent as if such early termination had not occurred, excluding any adjustments to the Option Entitlement that result from corresponding adjustments to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Supplemental Indenture.
 
(ii) Section 12.9(b)(i) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (1) replacing "either party may elect" with "Dealer may elect" and (2) replacing "notice to the other party" with "notice to Counterparty" in the first sentence of such section.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Confirmation and returning it to EDG Confirmation Group, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 277 Park Avenue, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10172-3401, or by fax to .
(212) 622 8519
 
Accepted and confirmed
as of the Trade Date:
 

Exhibit 10.2
EXECUTION COPY
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
P.O. Box 161
60 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0JP
England
To: Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.:   (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No.:    (479) 757-6868
Re: Warrants
The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Warrants issued by Tyson Foods, Inc. ("") to JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch ("") as of the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This letter agreement constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below. This Confirmation shall replace any previous agreements and serve as the final documentation for this Transaction.
Confirmation
Company
Dealer
Transaction
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (""), are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. This Transaction shall be deemed to be a Share Option Transaction within the meaning set forth in the Equity Definitions.
Equity Definitions
ISDA
Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Company as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Company had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
2. The Transaction is a Warrant Transaction, which shall be considered a Share Option Transaction for purposes of the Equity Definitions. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
5. Account Details:
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza
New York, NY
ABA # 021000021
Account Name : Tyson Foods, Inc.
Account No. : 304182427
Account for delivery of Shares from Company:
To be provided by Company
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, New York
ABA: 021 000 021
Favour: JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association  London
A/C: 0010962009 CHASUS33
Account for delivery of Shares to Dealer:
DTC 0060
6. Offices:
The Office of Company for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Company is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Dealer for the Transaction is: London
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
London Branch
P.O. Box 161
60 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0JP
England
7. Notices: For purposes of this Confirmation:
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.: (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No: (479) 757-6868
 
Dealer notice information to follow:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
277 Park Avenue, 11
th
Floor
New York, NY 10172
Attention: Mariusz Kwasnik
Title: Operations Analyst
EDG Corporate Marketing
Telephone No: (212) 622-6707
Facsimile No: (212) 622-8534
8. Representations and Warranties of Company
The representations and warranties of Company set forth in Section 1 of the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of September 9, 2008 among Company, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as representatives of the Underwriters are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein. Company hereby further represents and warrants to Dealer that:
Underwriting Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company is a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, organization, trust or other entity and:
 
 
 
 
9. Other Provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) Company shall have the right to transfer or assign its rights and obligations under this Transaction to any third party; that such transfer or assignment shall be subject to reasonable conditions that Dealer may impose, including, but not limited to, the following conditions:
provided
(A) With respect to any transfer or assignment, Company shall not be released from its notice and indemnification obligations pursuant to Section 9(b) or any obligations under Section 9(k) or 9(m) of this Confirmation;
(B) Company's rights and obligations under this Transaction shall only be transferred or assigned to a third party that is a United States person (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended);
(C) Such transfer or assignment shall be effected on terms, including any reasonable undertakings by such third party (including, but not limited to, an undertaking with respect to compliance with applicable securities laws in a manner that, in the reasonable judgment of Dealer, will not expose Dealer to material risks under applicable securities laws) and execution of any documentation and delivery of legal opinions with respect to securities laws and other matters by such third party and Company, as are requested and reasonably satisfactory to Dealer;
 
(D) Dealer will not, as a result of such transfer or assignment, be required to pay the transferee on any payment date an amount under Section 2(d)(i)(4) of the Agreement greater than an amount that Dealer would have been required to pay to Company in the absence of such transfer and assignment;
(E) An Event of Default, Potential Event of Default or Termination Event will not occur as a result of such transfer and assignment;
(F) Without limiting the generality of clause (B), Company shall cause the transferee to make such Payee Tax Representations and to provide such tax documentation as may be reasonably requested by Dealer to permit Dealer to determine that results described in clauses (D) and (E) will not occur upon or after such transfer and assignment; and
(G) Company shall be responsible for all reasonable costs and expenses, including reasonable counsel fees, incurred by Dealer in connection with such transfer or assignment.
(ii) Dealer may, without Company's consent, transfer or assign all or any part of its rights or obligations under this Transaction to any third party. If after Dealer's commercially reasonable efforts, Dealer is unable to effect such a transfer or assignment on pricing terms reasonably acceptable to Dealer and within a time period reasonably acceptable to Dealer of a sufficient number of Warrants to reduce (1) the number of Shares that Dealer Group directly or indirectly beneficially owns (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) to 7.5% of Company's outstanding Shares or less or (2) the quotient of (x) the product of (a) the Number of Warrants and (b) the Warrant Entitlement divided by (y) the number of Company's outstanding Shares (such quotient expressed as a percentage, the "") to 14.5% or less, Dealer may designate any Exchange Business Day as an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion (the "") of this Transaction, such that (1) the number of Shares that Dealer Group directly or indirectly beneficially owns (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) following such partial termination will be equal to or less than 7.5% of Company's outstanding Shares or (2) the Warrant Equity Percentage following such partial termination will be equal to or less than 14.5%. In the event that Dealer so designates an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion of this Transaction, a payment shall be made pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement as if (1) an Early Termination Date had been designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to this Transaction and a Number of Warrants equal to the Terminated Portion, (2) Company shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such partial termination and (3) such Transaction shall be the only Terminated Transaction (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of paragraph 9(j) shall apply to any amount that is payable by Company to Dealer pursuant to this sentence). Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Dealer to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any Shares or other securities to or from Company, Dealer may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such Shares or other securities and otherwise to perform Dealer's obligations in respect of this Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. Dealer shall be discharged of its obligations to Company to the extent of any such performance. "" means Dealer and each business unit of its affiliates subject to aggregation with Dealer under Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder.
Warrant Equity Percentage
Terminated Portion
Dealer Group
 
 
 
 
(i) Amendments to the Equity Definitions:
(A) Section 11.2(a) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by deleting the words "a diluting or concentrative" and replacing them with the words "an"; and adding the phrase "or Warrants" at the end of the sentence.
(B) Section 11.2(c) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (x) replacing the words "a diluting or concentrative" with "an", (y) adding the phrase "or Warrants" after the words "the relevant Shares" in the same sentence and (z) deleting the phrase "(provided that no adjustments will be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)" and replacing it with the phrase "(and, for the avoidance of doubt, adjustments may be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)."
(C) Section 11.2(e)(vii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by deleting the words "a diluting or concentrative" and replacing them with the word "a material"; and adding the phrase "or Warrants" at the end of the sentence.
(D) Section 12.6(a)(ii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (1) deleting from the fourth line thereof the word "or" after the word "official" and inserting a comma therefor, and (2) deleting the semi-colon at the end of subsection (B) thereof and inserting the following words therefor "or (C) at Dealer's option, the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 5(a)(vii) (1) through (9) of the ISDA Master Agreement with respect to that Issuer."
(E) Section 12.9(b)(iv) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by:
(x) deleting (1) subsection (A) in its entirety, (2) the phrase "or (B)" following subsection (A) and (3) the phrase "in each case" in subsection (B); and
(y) deleting the phrase "neither the Non-Hedging Party nor the Lending Party lends Shares in the amount of the Hedging Shares or" in the penultimate sentence.
 
(F) Section 12.9(b)(v) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by:
(x) adding the word "or" immediately before subsection "(B)" and deleting the comma at the end of subsection (A); and
(y)  (1) deleting subsection (C) in its entirety, (2) deleting the word "or" immediately preceding subsection (C) and (3) deleting the penultimate sentence in its entirety and replacing it with the sentence "The Hedging Party will determine the Cancellation Amount payable by one party to the other."
(ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Confirmation, upon the occurrence of one of the following events, with respect to this Transaction, (1) Dealer shall have the right to designate such event an Additional Termination Event and designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement, and (2) Company shall be deemed the sole Affected Party and the Transaction shall be deemed the sole Affected Transaction:
(A) Consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of Company or other transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which Shares will be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person other than one of its subsidiaries.
(B) There is a default by Company or any subsidiary in the payment of the principal or interest on any mortgage, agreement or other instrument under which there may be outstanding, or by which there may be secured or evidenced any indebtedness for money borrowed in excess of $50 million in the aggregate of Company and/or any subsidiary, whether such indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created resulting in such indebtedness becoming or being declared due and payable, and such acceleration shall not have been rescinded or annulled within 10 days after written notice of such acceleration has been received by Company or such subsidiary;
(C) Any "person" or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act other than Company, any of its subsidiaries, its or its subsidiaries' employee benefit plans and Permitted Holders (as defined below), has become the direct or indirect ultimate "beneficial owner", as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of the common equity of Company representing more than 50% of the voting power of such common equity;
(D) Any Permitted Holder has, or any Permitted Holders have, become the direct or indirect beneficial owner or beneficial owners of the common equity of Company representing more than 80%, in the aggregate, of the voting power of the common equity of Company. A "" means any of Don Tyson, the Tyson Limited Partnership, Don Tyson's siblings, the siblings of Don Tyson's parents and grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, spouses of any of the foregoing and the estates of any of the foregoing; and
Permitted Holder
(E) Dealer, despite using commercially reasonable efforts, is unable or reasonably determines that it is impractical or illegal, to hedge this Transaction in the public market without registration under the Securities Act or as a result of any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by Dealer).
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event Company shall not have delivered the full number of Restricted Shares otherwise applicable as a result of the proviso above relating to the Maximum Amount (such deficit, the ""), Company shall be continually obligated to deliver, from time to time until the full number of Deficit Restricted Shares have been delivered pursuant to this paragraph, Restricted Shares when, and to the extent, that (i) Shares are repurchased, acquired or otherwise received by Company or any of its subsidiaries after the Trade Date (whether or not in exchange for cash, fair value or any other consideration), (ii) authorized and unissued Shares reserved for issuance in respect of other transactions prior to such date which prior to the relevant date become no longer so reserved and (iii) Company additionally authorizes any unissued Shares that are not reserved for other transactions. Company shall immediately notify Dealer of the occurrence of any of the foregoing events (including the number of Shares subject to clause (i), (ii) or (iii) and the corresponding number of Restricted Shares to be delivered) and promptly deliver such Restricted Shares thereafter.
Deficit Restricted Shares
 
 
 
If the Private Placement Settlement or the Registration Settlement shall not be effected as set forth in clauses (i) or (ii), as applicable, then failure to effect such Private Placement Settlement or such Registration Settlement shall constitute an Event of Default with respect to which Company shall be the Defaulting Party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Confirmation and returning it to EDG Confirmation Group, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 277 Park Avenue, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10172-3401, or by fax to .
(212) 622 8519
 
Accepted and confirmed
as of the Trade Date:
 

Exhibit 10.3
EXECUTION COPY
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
P.O. Box 161
60 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0JP
England
To: Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.:   (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No.:      (479) 757-6868
Re: Call Option Confirmation and Warrant Confirmation
Tyson Foods, Inc. ("") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch ("") concurrently herewith are entering into a call option transaction (the "") to purchase from Dealer a number of options exercisable into Shares pursuant to a letter agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "") and a warrant transaction (the "", together with the Call Option Transaction, the "") to sell to Dealer a number of options exercisable into Shares pursuant to a letter agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "", together with the Call Option Confirmation, the "").
Company
Dealer
Call Option Transaction
Call Option Confirmation
Warrant Transaction
Transactions
Warrant Confirmation
Confirmations
This letter agreement (the "") hereby confirms the agreement between Dealer and Company as follows:
Letter Agreement
1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Call Option Confirmation or the Warrant Confirmation, as applicable.
Terms Used but Not Defined Herein
2. . Company represents and warrants to Dealer that it is not entering into this Letter Agreement (i) on the basis of, and it is not aware of, any material non-public information with respect to itself or the Shares, (ii) in anticipation of, in connection with, or to facilitate, a distribution of its Shares, a self tender offer or a third-party tender offer or (iii) to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares) or to raise or depress or otherwise manipulate the price of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares).
Representations and Warranties of Company
3. . If the Underwriters (the "") party to the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of the date hereof among Company, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the Underwriters party thereto, exercise their option to purchase additional Convertible Notes (the ""), then on the closing date for the purchase and sale of the Additional Convertible Notes, (i) the Number of Options will be automatically increased by additional Options (the "") equal to the number of Additional Convertible Notes in denominations of USD 1,000 principal amount issued pursuant to such exercise; (ii) an additional premium equal to the product of the Additional Options and USD 102.20 shall be paid by Company to Dealer; (iii) the Number of Warrants will be automatically increased by additional Warrants (the "") in proportion to such Additional Convertible Notes; and (iv) an additional premium equal to the product of the Additional Warrants and USD 1.637004 shall be paid by Dealer to the Company.
Amendment
Underwriters
Underwriting Agreement
Additional Convertible Notes
Additional Options
Additional Warrants
 
4. . In the event the sale of Convertible Notes is not consummated with the Underwriters for any reason by the close of business in New York on September 15, 2008 (or such later date as agreed upon by the parties) (September 15, 2008 or such later date, the "") or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, on the Additional Closing Date as defined in the Underwriting Agreement (the "" and the Closing Date or the Additional Closing Date, as applicable, the ""), the Transactions (or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, the Additional Options and Additional Warrants) shall automatically terminate (the ""), on the Early Unwind Date and (i) the Transactions (or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, the Additional Options and the Additional Warrants) and all of the respective rights and obligations of Dealer and Company under the Transactions, the Additional Options or Additional Warrants, as applicable, shall be cancelled and terminated and (ii) each party shall be released and discharged by the other party from and agrees not to make any claim against the other party with respect to any obligations or liabilities of the other party arising out of and to be performed in connection with the Transactions, the Additional Options or the Additional Warrants, as applicable, either prior to or after the Early Unwind Date; that Company shall purchase from Dealer on the Early Unwind Date all Shares purchased by Dealer or one or more of its affiliates in connection with the Transactions at the closing price of Shares as reported on the Exchange Business Day immediately preceding such Early Unwind Date. Dealer and Company represent and acknowledge to the other that, subject to the proviso included in this Section, upon an Early Unwind, all obligations with respect to the Transactions, the Additional Options or the Additional Warrants, as applicable, shall be deemed fully and finally discharged.
Early Unwind
Closing Date
Additional Closing Date
Early Unwind Date
Early Unwind
provided
5. This Letter Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if all of the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
.
Counterparts
6. . The provisions of this Letter Agreement shall be governed by the New York law (without reference to choice of law doctrine).
Governing Law
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Letter Agreement and returning it to EDG Confirmation Group, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 277 Park Avenue, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10172-3401, or by fax to .
(212) 622 8519
 
Accepted and confirmed
as of the Trade Date:
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
EXECUTION COPY
Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc.
4 World Financial Center, 5
th
Floor
New York, New York 10080
Attention: Corporate Derivatives
Facsimile No.: (212) 738-1069
Telephone No.: (212) 449-6763
To: Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.:   (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No.:      (479) 757-6868
Re: Call Option Transaction (Reference No. 088593422)
The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the call option transaction entered into between Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc. ("") represented by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (""), as its agent, and Tyson Foods, Inc. ("") as of the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This letter agreement constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below. This Confirmation shall replace any previous agreements and serve as the final documentation for this Transaction.
Confirmation
Dealer
Agent
Counterparty
Transaction
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ("") are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. Certain defined terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the prospectus dated September 4, 2008, as supplanted by the prospectus supplement dated September 10, 2008 (collectively, the "") relating to the USD 450,000,000 principal amount of 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due October 15, 2013, (the "" and each USD 1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, a "") issued by Counterparty pursuant to an indenture dated June 1, 1995 between Counterparty and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "") (the ""), as supplemented by the supplemental indenture between Counterparty and the Trustee to be dated September 15, 2008 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""). In the event of any inconsistency between the terms defined in the Prospectus, the Indenture and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. The parties acknowledge that this Confirmation is entered into on the date hereof with the understanding that (i) definitions set forth in the Indenture which are also defined herein by reference to the Indenture and (ii) sections of the Indenture that are referred to herein will conform to the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus. If any such definitions in the Indenture or any such sections of the Indenture differ from the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus, the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus will govern for purposes of this Confirmation. The parties further acknowledge that the Indenture section numbers used herein are based on the draft of the Indenture last reviewed by Dealer as of the date of this Confirmation, and if any such section numbers are changed in the Indenture as executed, the parties will amend this Confirmation in good faith to preserve the intent of the parties. For the avoidance of doubt, references to the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be, herein are references to the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be, as in effect on the date of its execution and if the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture is amended following its execution, any such amendment will be disregarded for purposes of this Confirmation unless the parties agree otherwise in writing.
Equity Definitions
ISDA
Prospectus
Convertible Notes
Convertible Note
Trustee
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Counterparty as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Counterparty had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
2. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
General Terms:
 
Procedures for Exercise:
 
 
 
 
 
5. Account Details:
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza
New York, NY
ABA # 021000021
Account Name: Tyson Foods, Inc.
Account No.: 304182427
Account for delivery of Shares to Counterparty:
To be provided by Counterparty
 
To be provided by Dealer
Account for delivery of Shares from Dealer:
To be provided by Dealer
6. Offices:
The Office of Counterparty for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Dealer for the Transaction is:
4 World Financial Center, 17
th
Floor, New York, New York 10080
7. Notices: For purposes of this Confirmation:
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.: (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No: (479) 757-6868
 
Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc.
4 World Financial Center, 17
th
Floor
New York, New York 10080
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
Attention: Manager of Equity Documentation
Facsimile No.: (917) 778-0835
Telephone No.: (212) 449-1951
 
8. Representations and Warranties of Counterparty
The representations and warranties of Counterparty set forth in Section 1 of the Convertible Notes Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of September 9, 2008 among Counterparty, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as representatives of the Underwriters are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein. Counterparty hereby further represents and warrants to Dealer that:
Underwriting Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
Counterparty is a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, organization, trust or other entity and:
 
 
 
 
9. Other Provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) Dealer may, without Counterparty's consent, transfer or assign all or any part of its rights or obligations under the Transaction:
 
 
 
 
(2) Counterparty has not fully performed its notice obligations under Section 9(b); or
(3) based in part upon advice of counsel and as a result of events occurring after the Trade Date, Dealer determines that it would be inadvisable for it to engage in any alternative hedging transactions or other arrangements (other than transfer, assignment or termination of this Transaction), which would enable it to reduce its "beneficial ownership" (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promoted thereunder).
Dealer shall promptly provide Counterparty a written notice of such transfer or assignment pursuant to this clause (ii). "" means Dealer and each business unit of its affiliates subject to aggregation with Dealer under Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder.
Dealer Group
(iii) If after Dealer's commercially reasonable efforts, Dealer is unable to effect such a transfer or assignment pursuant to clause (ii) above, when the Transaction is assignable or transferable pursuant to such clause, on pricing terms reasonably acceptable to Dealer and within a time period reasonably acceptable to Dealer, of a sufficient number of Options to reduce (1) the number of shares that Dealer Group directly or indirectly beneficially owns (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) to 7.5% of Counterparty's outstanding Shares or less or (2) the Option Equity Percentage to 14.5% or less, Dealer may designate any Exchange Business Day as an Early
 
Termination Date with respect to a portion (the "") of this Transaction, such that (1) the number of Shares that Dealer Group directly or indirectly beneficially owns (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) following such partial termination will be equal to or less than 7.5% of Counterparty's outstanding Shares or (2) the Option Equity Percentage following such partial termination will be equal to or less than 14.5%. In the event that Dealer so designates an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion of this Transaction, a payment shall be made pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement as if (1) an Early Termination Date had been designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to this Transaction and a Number of Options equal to the Terminated Portion, (2) Counterparty shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such partial termination and (3) such Transaction shall be the only Terminated Transaction (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of Section 9(l) shall apply to any amount that is payable by Dealer to Counterparty pursuant to this sentence as if Counterparty was not the Affected Party).
Terminated Portion
(iv) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Dealer to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any shares or other securities to or from Counterparty, Dealer may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such shares or other securities and otherwise to perform Dealer's obligations in respect of this Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. Dealer shall be discharged of its obligations to Counterparty to the extent of any such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
Certain Important Information
Dealer is an OTC Derivatives Dealer registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Applicable SEC rules require us to provide you with the following information regarding SEC regulation of OTC Derivatives Dealers: Dealer is exempt from the provisions of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (SIPA), including membership in the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC). Therefore, your account is not covered by SIPA protection. Except as otherwise agreed in writing by you and us, Dealer may repledge and otherwise use in its business collateral you have pledged to Dealer under the Agreement. Collateral you have pledged to Dealer will not be subject to the requirements of Securities Exchange Act Rules: 8c-1 and 15c2-1 regarding hypothecation of collateral; 15c3-2 regarding free credit balances; or 15c3-3 regarding custody of securities and calculations of a reserve formula applicable to a fully regulated SEC registered broker or Dealer. In the event of a Dealer's failure (by insolvency or otherwise), you would likely be considered to be an unsecured creditor of Dealer as to any collateral pledged to Dealer under the Agreement.
Dealer is incorporated in Delaware and is a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. Dealer has entered into this transaction as principal through Agent as its agent. The time of this Transaction shall be notified to the Company upon request.
 
 
 
(ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Confirmation, the giving of any Notice of Exercise shall constitute an Additional Termination Event hereunder with respect to the number, if any, of Exercisable Options specified in such Notice of Exercise as corresponding to a conversion of Convertible Notes to which the provisions of Section 4.06 of the Supplemental Indenture apply. Upon receipt of any such Notice, Dealer shall designate an Exchange Business Day as an Early Termination Date (such day to occur as close as practicable, in Dealer's commercially reasonable judgment, to the settlement date of the relevant Convertible Notes), with respect to the portion of this Transaction corresponding to number of such Exercisable Options so specified. The amount payable by Dealer to Counterparty pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement upon such early termination shall be satisfied solely by delivery by Dealer to Counterparty of a number of Shares (and cash in lieu of fractional Shares) equal to the lesser of:
(1) the product of (i) the Applicable Percentage and (ii) the aggregate number of Shares, if any, that Counterparty is required to deliver to the holders of the relevant Convertible Notes, after taking into account any applicable adjustments to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Supplemental Indenture and
(2) the number of Shares equal to (i) the amount (the "") calculated pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement in respect of such Additional Termination Event (without regard to this section) (ii) a price per Share determined by the Calculation Agent; that for the purposes of determining the Unwind Amount, (A) Counterparty shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such Additional Termination Event, (B) Dealer shall be the party entitled to designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement; and (C) for the avoidance of doubt, the Calculation Agent (i) shall take into account the time value of this Transaction from the Early Termination Date to the Expiration Date and (ii) shall not take into account any adjustments to the Option Entitlement that result from corresponding adjustments to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Supplemental Indenture; that in case of a partial termination, an Early Termination Date shall be designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to this Transaction and a Number of Options equal to the terminated portion and such Transaction shall be the only Terminated Transaction.
Unwind Amount
divided by
provided
provided further
For the avoidance of doubt, (A) at the effective time of a Merger Event, each Share shall be deemed a unit of Reference Property and (B) the number of Shares (and cash in lieu of fractional Shares) payable by Dealer to Counterparty pursuant to this Section 9(i)(ii) upon such early termination shall be no less than the aggregate number of Net Shares for each Option terminated pursuant to this Section 9(i)(ii), determined by the Calculation Agent as if such early termination had not occurred, excluding any adjustments to the Option Entitlement that result from corresponding adjustments to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Supplemental Indenture.
 
(ii) Section 12.9(b)(i) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (1) replacing "either party may elect" with "Dealer may elect" and (2) replacing "notice to the other party" with "notice to Counterparty" in the first sentence of such section.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. ISDA Master Agreement:
 
Dealer: Guarantee of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Counterparty: Not Applicable.
 
With respect to Dealer: Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.
With respect to Counterparty: Not Applicable.
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Confirmation and returning it by facsimile to the address provided in the Notices section of this Confirmation.
 
Accepted and confirmed:
 
Acknowledged and agreed as to matters to the Agent:
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, MERRILL LYNCH & CO., INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (""), hereby unconditionally guarantees to Tyson Foods, Inc. (""), the due and punctual payment of any and all amounts payable by Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc., a company incorporated in Delaware (""), under the terms of the Confirmation of the Call Option Transaction between Counterparty and ML (ML as Seller), dated as of September 9, 2008 (the ""), including, in case of default, interest on any amount due, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether on the scheduled payment dates, at maturity, upon declaration of termination or otherwise, according to the terms thereof. In case of the failure of ML punctually to make any such payment, ML & Co. hereby agrees to make such payment, or cause such payment to be made, promptly upon demand made by Counterparty to ML & Co.; , however that delay by Counterparty in giving such demand shall in no event affect ML & Co.'s obligations under this Guarantee. This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect or shall be reinstated (as the case may be) if at any time any payment guaranteed hereunder, in whole or in part, is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by Counterparty upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of ML or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
ML & Co.
Counterparty
ML
Confirmation
provided
ML & Co. hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Confirmation; the absence of any action to enforce the same; any waiver or consent by Counterparty concerning any provisions thereof; the rendering of any judgment against ML or any action to enforce the same; or any other circumstances that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a guarantor or a defense of a guarantor. ML covenants that this guarantee will not be discharged except by complete payment of the amounts payable under the Confirmation. This Guarantee shall continue to be effective if ML merges or consolidates with or into another entity, loses its separate legal identity or ceases to exist.
ML & Co. hereby waives diligence; presentment; protest; notice of protest, acceleration, and dishonor; filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of ML; all demands whatsoever, except as noted in the first paragraph hereof; and any right to require a proceeding first against ML.
ML & Co. hereby certifies and warrants that this Guarantee constitutes the valid obligation of ML & Co. and complies with all applicable laws.
This Guarantee shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
This Guarantee becomes effective concurrent with the effectiveness of the Confirmation, according to its terms.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ML & Co. has caused this Guarantee to be executed in its corporate name by its duly authorized representative.
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
EXECUTION COPY
Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc.
4 World Financial Center, 5
th
Floor
New York, New York 10080
Attention: Corporate Derivatives
Facsimile No.: (212) 738-1069
Telephone No.: (212) 449-6763
To: Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.: (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No.: (479) 757-6868
Re: Warrants (Reference No. 088593425)
The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Warrants issued by Tyson Foods, Inc. ("") to Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc. (""), represented by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (""), as its agent, as of the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This letter agreement constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below. This Confirmation shall replace any previous agreements and serve as the final documentation for this Transaction.
Confirmation
Company
Dealer
Agent
Transaction
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (""), are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. This Transaction shall be deemed to be a Share Option Transaction within the meaning set forth in the Equity Definitions.
Equity Definitions
ISDA
Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Company as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Company had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
2. The Transaction is a Warrant Transaction, which shall be considered a Share Option Transaction for purposes of the Equity Definitions. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
General Terms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Account Details:
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza
New York, NY
ABA # 021000021
Account Name : Tyson Foods, Inc.
Account No. : 304182427
Account for delivery of Shares from Company:
To be provided by Company
 
To be provided by Dealer
Account for delivery of Shares to Dealer:
To be provided by Dealer
6. Offices:
The Office of Company for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Company is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Dealer for the Transaction is:
4 World Financial Center, 17
th
Floor, New York, New York 10080
7. Notices: For purposes of this Confirmation:
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.: (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No: (479) 757-6868
 
Dealer notice information to follow:
Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc.
4 World Financial Center, 17th Floor
New York, New York 10080
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
Attention: Manager of Equity Documentation
Facsimile No.: (917) 778-0835
Telephone No.: (212) 449-1951
 
8. Representations and Warranties of Company
The representations and warranties of Company set forth in Section 1 of the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of September 9, 2008 among Company, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as representatives of the Underwriters are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein. Company hereby further represents and warrants to Dealer that:
Underwriting Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company is a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, organization, trust or other entity and:
 
 
 
 
9. Other Provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(i) Company shall have the right to transfer or assign its rights and obligations under this Transaction to any third party; that such transfer or assignment shall be subject to reasonable conditions that Dealer may impose, including, but not limited to, the following conditions:
provided
(A) With respect to any transfer or assignment, Company shall not be released from its notice and indemnification obligations pursuant to Section 9(b) or any obligations under Section 9(k) or 9(m) of this Confirmation;
(B) Company's rights and obligations under this Transaction shall only be transferred or assigned to a third party that is a United States person (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended);
(C) Such transfer or assignment shall be effected on terms, including any reasonable undertakings by such third party (including, but not limited to, an undertaking with respect to compliance with applicable securities laws in a manner that, in the reasonable judgment of Dealer, will not expose Dealer to material risks under applicable securities laws) and execution of any documentation and delivery of legal opinions with respect to securities laws and other matters by such third party and Company, as are requested and reasonably satisfactory to Dealer;
(D) Dealer will not, as a result of such transfer or assignment, be required to pay the transferee on any payment date an amount under Section 2(d)(i)(4) of the Agreement greater than an amount that Dealer would have been required to pay to Company in the absence of such transfer and assignment;
(E) An Event of Default, Potential Event of Default or Termination Event will not occur as a result of such transfer and assignment;
(F) Without limiting the generality of clause (B), Company shall cause the transferee to make such Payee Tax Representations and to provide such tax documentation as may be reasonably requested by Dealer to permit Dealer to determine that results described in clauses (D) and (E) will not occur upon or after such transfer and assignment; and
(G) Company shall be responsible for all reasonable costs and expenses, including reasonable counsel fees, incurred by Dealer in connection with such transfer or assignment.
(ii) Dealer may, without Company's consent, transfer or assign all or any part of its rights or obligations under this Transaction to any third party. If after Dealer's commercially reasonable efforts, Dealer is unable to effect such a transfer or assignment on pricing terms reasonably acceptable to Dealer and within a time period reasonably acceptable to Dealer of a sufficient number of Warrants to reduce (1) the number of Shares that Dealer Group directly or indirectly beneficially owns (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) to 7.5% of Company's outstanding Shares or less or (2) the quotient of (x) the product
 
of (a) the Number of Warrants and (b) the Warrant Entitlement divided by (y) the number of Company's outstanding Shares (such quotient expressed as a percentage, the "") to 14.5% or less, Dealer may designate any Exchange Business Day as an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion (the "") of this Transaction, such that (1) the number of Shares that Dealer Group directly or indirectly beneficially owns (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder) following such partial termination will be equal to or less than 7.5% of Company's outstanding Shares or (2) the Warrant Equity Percentage following such partial termination will be equal to or less than 14.5%. In the event that Dealer so designates an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion of this Transaction, a payment shall be made pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement as if (1) an Early Termination Date had been designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to this Transaction and a Number of Warrants equal to the Terminated Portion, (2) Company shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such partial termination and (3) such Transaction shall be the only Terminated Transaction (and, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of paragraph 9(j) shall apply to any amount that is payable by Company to Dealer pursuant to this sentence). Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Dealer to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any Shares or other securities to or from Company, Dealer may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such Shares or other securities and otherwise to perform Dealer's obligations in respect of this Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. Dealer shall be discharged of its obligations to Company to the extent of any such performance. "" means Dealer and each business unit of its affiliates subject to aggregation with Dealer under Section 13 of the Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder.
Warrant Equity Percentage
Terminated Portion
Dealer Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
Certain Important Information
Dealer is an OTC Derivatives Dealer registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Applicable SEC rules require us to provide you with the following information regarding SEC regulation of OTC Derivatives Dealers: Dealer is exempt from the provisions of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (SIPA), including membership in the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC). Therefore, your account is not covered by SIPA protection. Except as otherwise agreed in writing by you and us, Dealer may repledge and otherwise use in its business collateral you have pledged to Dealer under the Agreement. Collateral you have pledged to Dealer will not be subject to the requirements of Securities Exchange Act Rules: 8c-1 and 15c2-1 regarding hypothecation of collateral; 15c3-2 regarding free credit balances; or 15c3-3 regarding custody of securities and calculations of a reserve formula applicable to a fully regulated SEC registered broker or Dealer. In the event of a Dealer's failure (by insolvency or otherwise), you would likely be considered to be an unsecured creditor of Dealer as to any collateral pledged to Dealer under the Agreement.
Dealer is incorporated in Delaware and is a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. Dealer has entered into this transaction as principal through Agent as its agent. The time of this Transaction shall be notified to the Company upon request.
 
(i) Amendments to the Equity Definitions:
(A) Section 11.2(a) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by deleting the words "a diluting or concentrative" and replacing them with the words "an"; and adding the phrase "or Warrants" at the end of the sentence.
(B) Section 11.2(c) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (x) replacing the words "a diluting or concentrative" with "an", (y) adding the phrase "or Warrants" after the words "the relevant Shares" in the same sentence and (z) deleting the phrase "(provided that no adjustments will be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)" and replacing it with the phrase "(and, for the avoidance of doubt, adjustments may be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)."
(C) Section 11.2(e)(vii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by deleting the words "a diluting or concentrative" and replacing them with the word "a material"; and adding the phrase "or Warrants" at the end of the sentence.
(D) Section 12.6(a)(ii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (1) deleting from the fourth line thereof the word "or" after the word "official" and inserting a comma therefor, and (2) deleting the semi-colon at the end of subsection (B) thereof and inserting the following words therefor "or (C) at Dealer's option, the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 5(a)(vii) (1) through (9) of the ISDA Master Agreement with respect to that Issuer."
(E) Section 12.9(b)(iv) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by:
(x) deleting (1) subsection (A) in its entirety, (2) the phrase "or (B)" following subsection (A) and (3) the phrase "in each case" in subsection (B); and
(y) deleting the phrase "neither the Non-Hedging Party nor the Lending Party lends Shares in the amount of the Hedging Shares or" in the penultimate sentence.
 
(F) Section 12.9(b)(v) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by:
(x) adding the word "or" immediately before subsection "(B)" and deleting the comma at the end of subsection (A); and
(y)(1) deleting subsection (C) in its entirety, (2) deleting the word "or" immediately preceding subsection (C) and (3) deleting the penultimate sentence in its entirety and replacing it with the sentence "The Hedging Party will determine the Cancellation Amount payable by one party to the other."
(ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Confirmation, upon the occurrence of one of the following events, with respect to this Transaction, (1) Dealer shall have the right to designate such event an Additional Termination Event and designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement, and (2) Company shall be deemed the sole Affected Party and the Transaction shall be deemed the sole Affected Transaction:
(A) Consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of Company or other transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which Shares will be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person other than one of its subsidiaries.
(B) There is a default by Company or any subsidiary in the payment of the principal or interest on any mortgage, agreement or other instrument under which there may be outstanding, or by which there may be secured or evidenced any indebtedness for money borrowed in excess of $50 million in the aggregate of Company and/or any subsidiary, whether such indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created resulting in such indebtedness becoming or being declared due and payable, and such acceleration shall not have been rescinded or annulled within 10 days after written notice of such acceleration has been received by Company or such subsidiary;
(C) Any "person" or "group" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act other than Company, any of its subsidiaries, its or its subsidiaries' employee benefit plans and Permitted Holders (as defined below), has become the direct or indirect ultimate "beneficial owner", as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of the common equity of Company representing more than 50% of the voting power of such common equity;
(D) Any Permitted Holder has, or any Permitted Holders have, become the direct or indirect beneficial owner or beneficial owners of the common equity of Company representing more than 80%, in the aggregate, of the voting power of the common equity of Company. A "" means any of Don Tyson, the Tyson Limited Partnership, Don Tyson's siblings, the siblings of Don Tyson's parents and grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, spouses of any of the foregoing and the estates of any of the foregoing; and
Permitted Holder
(E) Dealer, despite using commercially reasonable efforts, is unable or reasonably determines that it is impractical or illegal, to hedge this Transaction in the public market without registration under the Securities Act or as a result of any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by Dealer).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event Company shall not have delivered the full number of Restricted Shares otherwise applicable as a result of the proviso above relating to the Maximum Amount (such deficit, the ""), Company shall be continually obligated to deliver, from time to time until the full number of Deficit Restricted Shares have been delivered pursuant to this paragraph, Restricted Shares when, and to the extent, that (i) Shares are repurchased, acquired or otherwise received by Company or any of its subsidiaries after the Trade Date (whether or not in exchange for cash, fair value or any other consideration), (ii) authorized and unissued Shares reserved for issuance in respect of other transactions prior to such date which prior to the relevant date become no longer so reserved and (iii) Company additionally authorizes any unissued Shares that are not reserved for other transactions. Company shall immediately notify Dealer of the occurrence of any of the foregoing events (including the number of Shares subject to clause (i), (ii) or (iii) and the corresponding number of Restricted Shares to be delivered) and promptly deliver such Restricted Shares thereafter.
Deficit Restricted Shares
 
 
If the Private Placement Settlement or the Registration Settlement shall not be effected as set forth in clauses (i) or (ii), as applicable, then failure to effect such Private Placement Settlement or such Registration Settlement shall constitute an Event of Default with respect to which Company shall be the Defaulting Party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Confirmation and returning it by facsimile to the address provided in the Notices section of this Confirmation.
 
Accepted and confirmed:
 
Acknowledged and agreed as to matters to the Agent:
 

Exhibit 10.6
EXECUTION COPY
Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc.
4 World Financial Center, 5
th
Floor
New York, New York 10080
Attention: Corporate Derivatives
Facsimile No.: (212) 738-1069
Telephone No.: (212) 449-6763
September 9, 2008
To: Tyson Foods, Inc.
2210 West Oaklawn Drive
Springdale, Arkansas 72762-6999
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.: (479) 290-4000
Facsimile No.: (479) 757-6868
Re: Call Option Confirmation and Warrant Confirmation
Tyson Foods, Inc. ("") and Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc. (""), represented by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (""), as its agent, concurrently herewith are entering into a call option transaction (the "") to purchase from Dealer a number of options exercisable into Shares pursuant to a letter agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "") and a warrant transaction (the "", together with the Call Option Transaction, the "") to sell to Dealer a number of options exercisable into Shares pursuant to a letter agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "", together with the Call Option Confirmation, the "").
Company
Dealer
Agent
Call Option Transaction
Call Option Confirmation
Warrant Transaction
Transactions
Warrant Confirmation
Confirmations
This letter agreement (the "") hereby confirms the agreement between Dealer and Company as follows:
Letter Agreement
1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Call Option Confirmation or the Warrant Confirmation, as applicable.
Terms Used but Not Defined Herein
2. . Company represents and warrants to Dealer that it is not entering into this Letter Agreement (i) on the basis of, and it is not aware of, any material non-public information with respect to itself or the Shares (ii) in anticipation of, in connection with, or to facilitate, a distribution of its Shares, a self tender offer or a third-party tender offer or (iii) to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares) or to raise or depress or otherwise manipulate the price of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for the Shares).
Representations and Warranties of Company
3. . If the Underwriters (the "") party to the Underwriting Agreement (the "") dated as of the date hereof among Company, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the Underwriters party thereto, exercise their option to purchase additional Convertible Notes (the ""), then on the closing date for the purchase and sale of the Additional Convertible Notes, (i) the Number of Options will be automatically increased by additional Options (the "") equal to the number of Additional Convertible Notes in denominations of USD 1,000 principal amount issued pursuant to such exercise; (ii) an additional premium equal to the product of the Additional Options and USD 102.20 shall be paid by Company to Dealer; (iii) the Number of Warrants will be automatically increased by additional Warrants (the "") in proportion to such Additional Convertible Notes; and (iv) an additional premium equal to the product of the Additional Warrants and USD 1.637004 shall be paid by Dealer to the Company.
Amendment
Underwriters
Underwriting Agreement
Additional Convertible Notes
Additional Options
Additional Warrants
4. . In the event the sale of Convertible Notes is not consummated with the Underwriters for any reason by the close of business in New York on September 15, 2008 (or such later date as agreed upon by the parties) (September 15, 2008 or such later date, the "") or, with respect to
Early Unwind
Closing Date
any Additional Convertible Notes, on the Additional Closing Date as defined in the Underwriting Agreement (the "" and the Closing Date or the Additional Closing Date, as applicable, the ""), the Transactions (or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, the Additional Options and Additional Warrants) shall automatically terminate (the ""), on the Early Unwind Date and (i) the Transactions (or, with respect to any Additional Convertible Notes, the Additional Options and the Additional Warrants) and all of the respective rights and obligations of Dealer and Company under the Transactions, the Additional Options or Additional Warrants, as applicable, shall be cancelled and terminated and (ii) each party shall be released and discharged by the other party from and agrees not to make any claim against the other party with respect to any obligations or liabilities of the other party arising out of and to be performed in connection with the Transactions, the Additional Options or the Additional Warrants, as applicable, either prior to or after the Early Unwind Date; that Company shall purchase from Dealer on the Early Unwind Date all Shares purchased by Dealer or one or more of its affiliates in connection with the Transactions at the closing price of Shares as reported on the Exchange Business Day immediately preceding such Early Unwind Date. Dealer and Company represent and acknowledge to the other that, subject to the proviso included in this Section, upon an Early Unwind, all obligations with respect to the Transactions, the Additional Options or the Additional Warrants, as applicable, shall be deemed fully and finally discharged.
Additional Closing Date
Early Unwind Date
Early Unwind
provided
5. This Letter Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if all of the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
.
Counterparts
6. . The provisions of this Letter Agreement shall be governed by the New York law (without reference to choice of law doctrine).
Governing Law
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Letter Agreement and returning it by facsimile to the address provided in the Notices section of the Confirmations.
 
 
 


