FILE:TSN/TSN-8K-20080128080954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): January 25, 2008
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Delaware
(State of incorporation or organization)
 
001-14704
(Commission File Number)
 
71-0225165
(IRS Employer Identification No.)
 
2210 West Oaklawn Drive, Springdale, AR 72762-6999
(479) 290-4000
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of
Registrant's principal executive offices)
 
Not applicable
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if applicable)
 
___________________________________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 28, 2008, Tyson Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its unaudited results of operations for its first quarter ended December 29, 2007. The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
On January 25, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing the plans to restructure its beef operations in Emporia, Kansas. The press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Limitation on Incorporation by Reference
 
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including exhibits, is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 9.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
 
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
Current Report On Form 8-K
Dated January 25, 2008
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

Investor Contact: Ruth Ann Wisener, 479-290-4235
TYSON REPORTS FIRST QUARTER
FISCAL 2008 RESULTS
 
 
 
Springdale, Arkansas  January 28, 2008 -
Tyson Foods, Inc. (NYSE: TSN), today reported $0.10 diluted earnings per share for the first fiscal quarter ended December 29, 2007, compared to $0.16 diluted earnings per share in the same quarter last year. Sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were $6.8 billion and $6.6 billion, respectively. Operating income was $84 million compared to $145 million and net income was $34 million compared to $57 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded an $18 million non-operating gain on the sale of an investment. Additionally, we recorded $6 million of severance charges related to the FAST initiative.
 
"Given all we've faced, we delivered a solid first quarter," said Richard L. Bond, Tyson Foods president and chief executive officer. "Sales were up $200 million. Our Pork segment delivered one of its best quarters ever with strong volume and operating income nearly double compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2007. We also achieved normalized earnings of nearly 5% in the Prepared Foods segment. The Chicken segment struggled with more than $100 million in additional grain costs. The Beef segment continues to face a very difficult operating environment, which caused us to make the hard decision to cease slaughter operations at our beef plant in Emporia, Kansas. There continues to be far more beef slaughter capacity than available cattle, and this is especially true for Emporia, as cattle production has moved from eastern to western Kansas.
 
"In November, we projected an additional $300 million in grain costs for fiscal 2008," Bond said. "We now think this year-over-year increase will exceed half a billion dollars. Because of these unanticipated and extraordinarily high corn and soybean meal costs, we have no choice but to raise prices substantially.
 
"The continued escalation of grain prices, driven largely by government mandates for corn-based ethanol, has caused a domino effect for other inputs. Cooking oil, flour and other feed ingredients are all on the rise. For the foreseeable future, consumers will pay more and more for food, especially protein, because grain represents a proportionally higher percentage of input costs compared to other foods.
 
"The commodity markets affecting our business are extremely volatile and fluctuating tremendously on a daily basis. For this reason, we have decided to temporarily withdraw our previously issued earnings guidance. In this erratic and unpredictable operating environment, it is virtually impossible to make meaningful earnings forecast assumptions.
 
"We are facing unparalleled market dynamics that make our work very challenging," Bond said. "We continue to believe our strategies are sound, and we'd like to acknowledge Tyson team members for their efforts in executing our business plans."
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
News Release
January 28, 2008
Page 2 of 7
Segment Performance Review (in millions)
 
 
 
 
Items impacting operating income (loss):
 
Q1 2008:
$6 million charge related to severance (allocated among segments)
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
News Release
January 28, 2008
Page 3 of 7
 
Chicken (31.0% of Net Sales - 1st Quarter 2008)
 
Chicken segment sales were $2.1 billion and operating income was $35 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Sales and operating income were impacted positively by improved average sales prices, partially offset by decreased sales volumes as a result of the sale of two poultry plants in fiscal 2007. Operating results were adversely impacted by increased grain costs of $107 million, as compared to the same period for fiscal 2007.
 
Beef (46.5% of Net Sales - 1 Quarter 2008)
st
Beef segment sales were $3.1 billion and operating loss was $85 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Operating results were negatively impacted by higher average live prices and operating cost inefficiencies, partially offset by increased average sales prices.
 
Pork (12.3% of Net Sales - 1 Quarter 2008)
st
Pork segment sales were $835 million and operating income was $76 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Operating results were impacted positively by lower average live prices, partially offset by lower average sales prices. Operating results were also positively impacted by strong export sales, which led to increased sales volumes.
 
Prepared Foods (10.0% of Net Sales - 1 Quarter 2008)
st
Prepared Foods segment sales were $676 million and operating income was $32 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Operating results were positively impacted by lower raw material costs. This included lower pork costs, which was offset by higher grain inputs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
News Release
January 28, 2008
Page 4 of 7
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
News Release
January 28, 2008
Page 5 of 7
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)
 
 
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
News Release
January 28, 2008
Page 6 of 7
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
News Release
January 28, 2008
Page 7 of 7
 
Tyson Foods, Inc., founded in 1935 with headquarters in Springdale, Arkansas, is the world's largest processor and marketer of chicken, beef and pork, the second-largest food production company in the
Fortune
500 and a member of the S&P 500. The company produces a wide variety of protein-based and prepared food products and is the recognized market leader in the retail and foodservice markets it serves. Tyson provides products and service to customers throughout the United States and more than 80 countries. The company has approximately 104,000 Team Members employed at more than 300 facilities and offices in the United States and around the world. Through its Core Values, Code of Conduct and Team Member Bill of Rights, Tyson strives to operate with integrity and trust and is committed to creating value for its shareholders, customers and Team Members. The company also strives to be faith-friendly, provide a safe work environment and serve as stewards of the animals, land and environment entrusted to it.
 
A conference call to discuss the Company's financial results will be held at 9 a.m. Eastern today. To listen live via telephone, call 800-779-0488. A pass code and the leader's name will be required to join the call. The pass code is Tyson Foods and the leader's name is Ruth Ann Wisener. International callers dial 773-756-0455. The call also will be webcast live on the Internet at http://ir.tyson.com. Financial information, such as this news release, as well as other supplemental data, including Company distribution channel information, can be accessed from the Company's web site at
http://ir.tyson.com.
A telephone replay will be available through February 28 at 866-373-1992. International callers dial 203-369-0266.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain information contained in the press release may constitute forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to expected earnings and results. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties which could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results and expectations, expressed in such forward-looking statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Among the factors that may cause actual results and experiences to differ from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are the following: (i) fluctuations in the cost and availability of inputs and raw materials, such as live cattle, live swine, feed grains (including corn and soybean meal) and energy; (ii) market conditions for finished products, including competition from other global and domestic food processors, supply and pricing of competing products and alternative proteins and demand for alternative proteins; (iii) successful rationalization of existing facilities and operating efficiencies of the facilities; (iv) risks associated with our commodity trading risk management activities; (v) access to foreign markets together with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, import/export restrictions and foreign politics; (vi) outbreak of a livestock disease (such as avian influenza (AI) or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE)), which could have an effect on livestock we own, the availability of livestock we purchase, consumer perception of certain protein products or our ability to access certain domestic and foreign markets; (vii) changes in availability and relative costs of labor and contract growers and our ability to maintain good relationships with employees, labor unions, contract growers and independent producers providing us livestock; (viii) issues related to food safety, including costs resulting from product recalls, regulatory compliance and any related claims or litigation; (ix) changes in consumer preference and diets and our ability to identify and react to consumer trends; (x) significant marketing plan changes by large customers or loss of one or more large customers; (xi) adverse results from litigation; (xii) risks associated with leverage, including cost increases due to rising interest rates or changes in debt ratings or outlook; (xiii) compliance with and changes to regulations and laws (both domestic and foreign), including changes in accounting standards, tax laws, environmental laws and occupational, health and safety laws; (xiv) our ability to make effective acquisitions or joint ventures and successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into existing operations; (xv) effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs; (xvi) the effect of, or changes in, general economic conditions; and (xvii) those factors listed under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" included in the Company's September 29, 2007, Annual Report filed on Form 10-K.
 
 


Tyson to Restructure Beef Operations at Emporia, Kansas
Slaughter operations to cease; Plant to focus on specialty processing
 
January 25, 2008  Springdale, Arkansas  As part of a strategy to optimize its commodity meat business, Tyson Foods, Inc. (NYSE: TSN) is restructuring operations at its Emporia, Kansas, beef plant, Tyson officials announced today.
 
Beef slaughter operations will cease within the next few weeks. However, the facility will still be used as a cold storage and distribution warehouse and will process ground beef. In addition, the Emporia facility will help enhance efficiencies at some other Tyson plants by taking over the processing of certain commodity and specialty cuts, which have typically slowed production at those other locations. The company has no present plans to use the slaughter area of the Emporia plant; however, the equipment there will be left intact.
 
"This is an extremely difficult decision, given the great team of people who work there and our investment in the plant," said Dick Bond, president and CEO of Tyson Foods. "However, we must make changes to our commodity business model to effectively manage through challenging market conditions.
 
"There continues to be far more beef slaughter capacity than available cattle and we believe this problem will continue to afflict the industry for the foreseeable future," said Bond. "We estimate the current slaughter overcapacity in the industry to be between 10,000 and 14,000 head of cattle per day."
 
"This imbalance is especially a problem for Emporia," he said. "Cattle production has moved from eastern to western Kansas over the past twenty to thirty years, and the Emporia plant is no longer centrally located in relationship to where most of the cattle it slaughters are raised."
 
In addition, the U.S. cattle herd is not growing. Tyson sees no signs of appreciable growth in the fed cattle supply over the next two to three years, which is consistent with the opinions of various industry analysts. The rising price of grain, caused in part by the use of corn for ethanol, has put pressure on feed costs, land costs and the use of farm ground. Further, the number of cows being retained for calf production continues to decline.
 
"At a time in the cattle cycle when cattle numbers should be at or near their highest, the level of production is not approaching its historic peaks and we do not see any increases in fed cattle production in the foreseeable future," said Jim Lochner, senior group vice president of Tyson Fresh Meats.
 
"In light of the slaughter overcapacity and the outlook for fed cattle inventories, we have reviewed the operations of each of our facilities, their location relative to available cattle supplies, and have determined slaughter operations at the Emporia facility should be discontinued," Lochner said. "By making this change, we'll be able to divert more cattle to our other facilities, which are more strategically located, and improve their capacity utilization."
 
The discontinuation of slaughter operations will result in the elimination of approximately 1,500 of the 2,400 jobs currently provided at the Emporia plant. This will include people employed in first and second shift slaughter, as well as second shift processing.
 
Affected workers will continue to be paid and receive benefits for 60 days. Tyson Human Resources representatives will begin meeting with them next week to discuss other employment opportunities within the company. The workers will be encouraged to consider transferring to other Tyson locations, such as company beef facilities at Finney County, Kansas; Dakota City and Lexington, Nebraska; and Joslin, Illinois. The company will offer cash relocation incentives for qualified workers. Those who transfer will retain their seniority as it relates to the accrual of benefits, including vacation time, as well as wage increases.
 
Tyson will also work cooperatively with the Kansas Department of Labor to help provide workers with information about unemployment benefits and help in finding employment outside the company.
 
The Emporia plant has been part of Tyson Foods since the company's purchase of IBP, inc. in 2001. IBP bought the plant from Armour & Co. in late 1967 and began production in 1969 after the facility had been extensively remodeled and expanded.
 
In addition to Emporia, Tyson's U.S. beef plants are located in Amarillo, Texas; Dakota City, Nebraska; Denison, Iowa; Finney County, Kansas; Joslin, Illinois, Lexington, Nebraska and Pasco, Washington. The company also has a beef complex in Canada, and is involved in a vertically integrated beef operation in Argentina.
 
 
 


