FILE:TSN/TSN-8K-20080903211420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): September 4, 2008
 
Tyson Foods, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Delaware
(State of incorporation or organization)
 
001-14704
(Commission File Number)
 
71-0225165
(IRS Employer Identification No.)
 
2210 West Oaklawn Drive, Springdale, AR 72762-6999
(479) 290-4000
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of
Registrant's principal executive offices)
 
Not applicable
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if applicable)
 
___________________________________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
As previously announced, on June 25, 2008, Tyson Foods, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a letter of intent with XL Foods Inc. to sell the beef processing, cattle feedyard and fertilizer assets of Lakeside Farm Industries Ltd ("Lakeside") for $106 million. Lakeside, the Company's wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary, was part of its Beef segment. XL Foods will pay an additional amount for cattle inventory, fertilizer inventory and packaging assets, estimated to approximate $85 million. This transaction is denominated in Canadian Dollars, so conversion at the closing date to US Dollars could be different than noted above. The Company will retain the finished product inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable of the Lakeside operations as of the closing date. The transaction remains subject to government approvals, receipt of commercially reasonable financing by XL Foods and execution of a definitive agreement between the Company and XL Foods. The Company hopes to complete the sale by the end of fiscal 2008. The Company reported its results with respect to Lakeside as a discontinued operation in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 28, 2008.
 
The Company is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K (this "Current Report") to update previously filed financial statements to reflect the subsequent reclassification of the Lakeside operation as a discontinued operation. Accordingly, this Current Report contains the Company's historical Selected Financial Data, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended September 29, 2007 (five years for the purposes of Selected Financial Data). Such information relates to Items 6, 7 and 8 of Part II, Schedule II (Valuation and Qualifying Accounts) and Exhibit 12.1 (Calculation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges) of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2007. It should be noted that neither the Company's net income (loss) for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended September 29, 2007 nor its net income (loss) for the fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2007 and March 29, 2008 were impacted by the reclassification of the Lakeside operation as a discontinued operation.
 
This Current Report also contains the Company's historical Financial Statements, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Calculation of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2007 and March 29, 2008 to reflect the reclassification of the Lakeside operation as a discontinued operation for comparability purposes. Such information relates to Items 1 and 2 of Part I and Exhibit 12.1 (Calculation of Ratio of Earnings to Charges) of the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2007 and March 29, 2008.
 
The Company has not otherwise updated its financial information or business discussion for activities or events occurring after the date this information was presented in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 28, 2008. You should read the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 28, 2008 and the Company's Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto for updated information.
 
Unaffected items of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2007 and Quarterly Reports for the fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2007 and March 29, 2008 have not been repeated in, and are not amended or modified by, this Current Report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY
We are the world's largest meat protein company and the second-largest food production company in the
Fortune
500 with one of the most recognized brand names in the food industry. We produce, distribute and market chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and related allied products. Our operations are conducted in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. Some of the key factors that influence our business are customer demand for our products, the ability to maintain and grow relationships with customers and introduce new and innovative products to the marketplace, accessibility of international markets, market prices for our chicken, beef and pork products, the cost of live cattle and hogs, raw materials and grain and operating efficiencies of our facilities.
 
OVERVIEW
In fiscal 2007, we had significant improvements in all segments. In total, operating income improved by $663 million from last year. The following are some of the highlights for fiscal 2007:
 
                                                                                     
 
 
 
 
2
 
OUTLOOK
The following elements comprise our long-term strategic plan:
 
 
In fiscal 2007, we announced a strategic alliance with ConocoPhillips, which will produce and market renewable diesel fuel. The alliance plans to use our poultry, beef and pork by-product fat to produce an on-highway transportation fuel. Production is expected to begin in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. We do not expect this alliance to have a significant impact to our earnings in fiscal 2008.
 
Also in fiscal 2007, we formed a 50/50 joint venture with Syntroleum Corporation. The joint venture, Dynamic Fuels LLC, will produce renewable synthetic fuels targeting the renewable diesel, jet and military fuel markets. Construction of production facilities is expected to begin in fiscal 2008 and continue through fiscal 2009, with production targeted for 2010.
 
We are working to potentially close two integrated poultry joint ventures in China, as well as an integrated poultry deal in Brazil. We expect to close two of these transactions by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2008, with the third to be completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
 
Our outlook for fiscal 2008 includes:
 
Our outlook for segments in fiscal 2008 includes:
 
3
 
SUMMARY OF RESULTS  CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
We operate in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. The following table is a summary of sales and operating income (loss), which is how we measure segment income (loss).
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Our cash needs for operations growth and capital expenditures are expected to be met with cash flows provided by operating activities, as well as short-term borrowings.
 
Reclassification:
In fiscal 2007, we reclassified $85 million and $27 million, respectively, for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, in negative book cash balances from Changes in working capital reported as Operating Activities to Increase (decrease) in negative book cash balances reported as Financing Activities to conform with the current period presentation.
 
 
Income before changes in working capital represents net income (loss) adjusted for non-cash income and expenses. Additionally, this amount represents net cash provided by operating activities prior to changes in assets and liabilities associated with operations. Changes in working capital do not include changes in property, plant and equipment associated with the Lakeside discontinued operation.
 
Over the past three years, cash provided by operating activities was approximately $2.1 billion, which enabled us to fund $1.4 billion in capital expenditures and pay down debt by $593 million.
 
Changes in working capital:
 
 
to complete. Capital spending for fiscal 2008 is expected to be between $425 million and $475 million.
joint venture, which will produce renewable synthetic fuels targeting the renewable diesel, jet and military fuel
markets. We anticipate total initial capital spending of approximately $75 million for the construction of the initial
facility, which is 50% of the estimated cost to construct the first facility. Construction is expected to begin in fiscal
2008 and continue through fiscal 2009, with production targeted for 2010.
 
10
 
Proceeds from sale of assets in fiscal 2007 include $40 million received related to the sale of two poultry plants and related support facilities.
 
 
7.25% Notes due October 1, 2006. In addition, we used cash from operations to reduce the amount outstanding
under the Lakeside term loan by $320 million, repay the outstanding $125 million 7.45% Notes
due June 1, 2007, and reduce other borrowings.
October 17, 2005, and reduced other borrowings.
The 2016 Notes carried an initial 6.60% interest rate, which now carry a 6.85% interest rate, with interest payments due semi-annually on April 1 and October 1. In fiscal 2007, proceeds were used to repay our outstanding $750 million 7.25% Notes due October 1, 2006. The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes.
three-year term loan agreement with the principal balance due at the end of the term. The agreement provides for interest rates ranging from LIBOR plus 0.4 percent to LIBOR plus one percent depending on our debt rating. Interest payments are made at least quarterly. Lakeside is one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Ratings
On July 24, 2006, Moody's Investors Services, Inc. (Moody's) downgraded the credit rating applicable to the 2016 Notes from "Baa3" to "Ba1." This downgrade increased the interest rate on the 2016 Notes from 6.60% to 6.85%, effective on the first day of the interest period during which the rating change required an adjustment to the interest rate (i.e., the issuance of the 2016 Notes). This downgrade did not have a material impact to interest expense. Additionally, on July 31, 2006, Standard & Poor's (S&P) downgraded the credit rating applicable to the 2016 Notes from "BBB" to "BBB-." This downgrade did not result in an increase in the interest rate on the 2016 Notes, nor did it result in an increase in interest expense or related fees for other debt.
 
On September 18, 2006, Tyson Fresh Meats (TFM), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, guaranteed the 2016 Notes. This guarantee does not extend to the other unsecured senior notes of the Company. Moody's and S&P did not change the July 2006 credit ratings applicable to the 2016 Notes. However, Moody's issued a new credit rating of "Ba2," and S&P issued a new credit rating of "BB+" related to the other unsecured senior notes not guaranteed by TFM. These new ratings did not impact the interest rate applicable to the 2016 Notes and did not have a material impact on interest expense.
 
S&P currently rates the 2016 Notes "BBB-," with a negative outlook. Moody's currently rates this debt "Ba1," with a negative outlook. The pretax impact to earnings of a further downgrade would not be material.
 
12
 
Debt Covenants
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, the most restrictive of which contain maximum allowed leverage ratios and a minimum required interest coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at September 29, 2007.
 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements material to our financial position or results of operations. The off-balance sheet arrangements we have are guarantees of debt of outside third parties, including a lease and grower loans, and residual value guarantees covering certain operating leases for various types of equipment. See Note 8, "Commitments" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions of these guarantees.
 
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of September 29, 2007:
 
 
13
 
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" (SFAS No. 158). SFAS No. 158 requires companies to recognize the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its consolidated balance sheet and to recognize changes in funded status in the year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income. We adopted SFAS No. 158 at the end of fiscal 2007. This standard also requires companies to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of its annual consolidated balance sheet, with limited exceptions. This portion of the standard has a delayed effective date, which we will adopt in fiscal 2009. See Note 12, "Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 158.
 
In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission staff published Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,
"
Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements" (SAB 108). SAB 108 addresses quantifying the financial statement effects of misstatements, specifically, how the effects of prior year uncorrected errors must be considered in quantifying misstatements in the current year financial statements. We adopted SAB 108 at the end of fiscal 2007, and there was no impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS No. 123R). The pronouncement requires companies to measure and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock and performance-based shares, in the financial statements based on the fair value at the date of the grant. In fiscal 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method. Under the modified prospective method, compensation cost is recognized for all share-based payments granted after the adoption of SFAS No. 123R and for all awards granted to employees prior to the adoption date of SFAS No. 123R and unvested on the adoption date. Accordingly, no restatements were made to prior periods. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we applied Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" in accounting for our employee stock compensation plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense was recognized for stock option issuances as stock options are issued with an exercise price equal to the closing price at the date of grant. Also, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we issued restricted stock and recorded the fair value of such awards as deferred compensation amortized over the vesting period. The fair value of each option grant is established on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model for grants awarded prior to October 1, 2005, and a binomial lattice method for grants awarded subsequent to October 1, 2005. The change to the binomial lattice method was made to better reflect the exercise behavior of top management. We recognized compensation expense (net of tax) in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively, of $11 million and $9 million related to stock options and $14 million and $15 million related to restricted stock. As of September 29, 2007, we had $44 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option plans that will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.5 years and $44 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock awards that will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
 
In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations," an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47). Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" (SFAS No. 143), was issued in June 2001 and requires an entity to recognize the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. SFAS No. 143 applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset that resulted from the acquisition, construction, development and/or the normal operation of a long-lived asset. The associated asset costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. FIN 47 clarifies the term "conditional asset retirement obligation"
as used in SFAS No. 143, which refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. FIN 47 requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. We adopted FIN 47 as of September 30, 2006. See Note 2, "Change in Accounting Principle" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of the adoption of FIN 47.
 
14
 
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes," an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006; therefore, we will adopt FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal 2008. Currently we are evaluating the impact the adoption of this statement will have on our consolidated financial position and we expect the adoption of FIN 48 will result in a cumulative effect adjustment between $10 million and $25 million.  The adjustment will decrease retained earnings and increase other long-term liabilities.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. This standard also responds to investors' requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" (SFAS No. 159). This statement provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 at the beginning of fiscal 2009. We are in process of evaluating the potential impacts of SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159.
 
15
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates we consider critical.
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
19
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
20
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
See accompanying notes.
 
21
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
22
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
23
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1: BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Description of Business:
Tyson Foods, Inc. (collectively, "Company," "we," "us" or "our"), founded in 1935 with world headquarters in Springdale, Arkansas, is the world's largest processor and marketer of chicken, beef and pork and the second-largest food production company in the
Fortune
500. We produce a wide variety of brand name protein-based and prepared food products marketed in the United States and more than 80 countries around the world. We are a recognized market leader in the retail and foodservice markets we serve. We have approximately 104,000 employees and more than 300 facilities and offices in 28 states and 19 countries.
 
Consolidation:
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all wholly-owned subsidiaries, as well as majority-owned subsidiaries for which we have a controlling interest. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Fiscal Year:
We utilize a 52- or 53-week accounting period ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
 
Reclassifications:
In fiscal 2007, we reclassified $85 million and $27 million, respectively, for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, in negative book cash balances from Increase in trade accounts payable and Net change in other current assets and liabilities both reported as Operating Activities to Increase (decrease) in negative book cash balances reported as Financing Activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows to conform with the current period presentation.
 
Discontinued Operation:
On June 25, 2008, we executed a letter of intent with XL Foods Inc. to sell the beef processing, cattle feedyard and fertilizer assets of Lakeside Farm Industries Ltd (Lakeside), our wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary. The financial statements herein are reissued to reflect the reclassification of operations to discontiued operations. See Note 3: Discontinued Operation in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents:
Cash equivalents consist of investments in short-term, highly liquid securities having original maturities of three months or less, which are made as part of our cash management activity. The carrying values of these assets approximate their fair market values. We primarily utilize a cash management system with a series of separate accounts consisting of lockbox accounts for receiving cash, concentration accounts where funds are moved to, and several "zero-balance" disbursement accounts for funding payroll, accounts payable, livestock procurement, grower payments, etc. As a result of our cash management system, checks issued, but not presented to the banks for payment, may result in negative book cash balances. These negative book cash balances are included in trade accounts payable and other current liabilities. Checks outstanding in excess of related book cash balances totaled approximately $255 million at September 29, 2007, and $246 million at September 30, 2006.
 
Accounts Receivable:
We record trade accounts receivable at net realizable value. This value includes an appropriate allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts to reflect any loss anticipated on the trade accounts receivable balances and charged to the provision for doubtful accounts. We calculate this allowance based on our history of write-offs, level of past due accounts and relationships with and economic status of our customers.
 
Inventories:
Processed products, livestock and supplies and other are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost includes purchased raw materials, live purchase costs, growout costs (primarily feed, contract grower pay and catch and haul costs), labor and manufacturing and production overhead, which are related to the purchase and production of inventories.
 
 
 
24
 
Depreciation:
We primarily use the straight-line method to calculate depreciation, using estimated lives for buildings and leasehold improvements of 10 to 39 years, machinery and equipment of three to 12 years and land improvements and other of three to 20 years.
 
Long-Lived Assets:
We review the carrying value of long-lived assets at each balance sheet date if indication of impairment exists. Recoverability is assessed using undiscounted cash flows based on historical results and current projections of earnings before interest and taxes. We measure impairment as the excess of carrying cost over the fair value of an asset. The fair value of an asset is measured using discounted cash flows of future operating results based on a discount rate that corresponds to our cost of capital.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets:
Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Our goodwill is allocated by reporting unit, and we follow a two step process to evaluate if a potential impairment exists. We have estimated the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow analysis. This analysis requires us to make various judgmental estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount factors. While estimating the fair value of our Beef segment, we assumed operating margins in future years in excess of the margins realized since export markets have been restricted due to BSE issues. The fair value estimate for this segment assumes future access to export markets similar to periods prior to BSE issues and it includes operating margin assumptions based on long-term expectations and margins historically realized in the beef industry. As a result of the first step of our goodwill impairment review, a potential impairment did not exist; therefore, the second step was not considered necessary. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of our reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate the fair value of our reporting units, we may be required to perform the second step which could result in a material impairment of our goodwill.
 
The fair value of trademarks is determined using a royalty rate method based on expected revenues by trademark, and the fair value of our in-process patents is determined using the present value of future cash flows.
 
Investments:
We have investments in joint ventures and other entities. We use the cost method of accounting where our voting interests are less than 20 percent and the equity method of accounting where our voting interests are in excess of 20 percent, but we do not have a controlling interest. Our underlying share of each entity's equity is reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other Assets.
 
We have investments in marketable debt securities. As of September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, $94 million and $115 million, respectively, were classified in Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with maturities ranging up to 49 years. We have determined all our marketable debt securities are available-for-sale investments. These investments are reported at fair value based on quoted market prices as of the balance sheet date, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, recorded in other comprehensive income. The amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization is recorded in interest income. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. Realized gains and losses on the sale of debt securities and declines in value judged to be other than temporary are recorded on a net basis in other income. Interest and dividends on securities classified as available-for-sale are recorded in interest income.
 
In fiscal 2006, we issued $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes with an interest rate of 6.60%, which will mature on April 1, 2016. In fiscal 2007, we used $750 million of the proceeds for repayment of the outstanding $750 million 7.25% Notes, which were due October 1, 2006, and the remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Our short-term investment at September 30, 2006, included $750 million of proceeds from the new issuance and earnings of $20 million on the investment. These funds were on deposit in an interest bearing account with a trustee.
 
Accrued Self Insurance:
We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms to provide for the potential liabilities for health and welfare, workers' compensation, auto liability and general liability risks. Liabilities associated with our risks retained are estimated, in part, by considering claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.
 
25
 
Capital Stock:
We have two classes of capital stock, Class A Common Stock, $0.10 par value (Class A stock) and Class B Common Stock, $0.10 par value (Class B stock). Holders of Class B stock may convert such stock into Class A stock on a share-for-share basis. Holders of Class B stock are entitled to 10 votes per share, while holders of Class A stock are entitled to one vote per share on matters submitted to shareholders for approval. As of September 29, 2007, members of the Tyson family beneficially own, in the aggregate, 99.97% of the outstanding shares of Class B stock and 1.27% of the outstanding shares of Class A stock, giving the Tyson family control of approximately 71% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting stock. Cash dividends cannot be paid to holders of Class B stock unless they are simultaneously paid to holders of Class A stock. The per share amount of the cash dividend paid to holders of Class B stock cannot exceed 90% of the cash dividend simultaneously paid to holders of Class A stock. We pay quarterly cash dividends to Class A and Class B shareholders. We paid Class A dividends per share of $0.16 and Class B dividends per share of $0.144 in each of fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
The Class B stock is considered a participating security requiring the use of the two-class method for the computation of basic earnings per share. The two-class computation method for each period reflects the cash dividends paid for each class of stock, plus the amount of allocated undistributed earnings (losses) computed using the participation percentage, which reflects the dividend rights of each class of stock. Basic earnings per share were computed using the two-class method for all periods presented. The shares of Class B stock are considered to be participating convertible securities since the shares of Class B stock are convertible on a share-for-share basis into shares of Class A stock. Diluted earnings per share were computed assuming the conversion of the Class B shares into Class A shares as of the beginning of each period.
 
Financial Instruments:
We purchase certain commodities, such as grains, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. As part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce our exposure to various market risks related to these purchases. Contract terms of a financial instrument qualifying as a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item, providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. Contracts designated and highly effective at meeting risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. If a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be offset either against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. Instruments we hold as part of our risk management activities that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are marked to fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported currently in earnings. Changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories or supplies are recorded in cost of sales. Changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. We generally do not hedge anticipated transactions beyond 12 months.
 
Revenue Recognition:
We recognize revenue when title and risk of loss are transferred to customers, which is generally on delivery based on terms of sale. Revenue is recognized as the net amount estimated to be received after deducting estimated amounts for discounts, trade allowances and product terms.
 
Litigation Reserves:
There are a variety of legal proceedings pending or threatened against us. Accruals are recorded when it is probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on current law, progress of each case, opinions and views of legal counsel and other advisers, our experience in similar matters and intended response to the litigation. These amounts, which are not discounted and are exclusive of claims against third parties, are adjusted periodically as assessment efforts progress or additional information becomes available. We expense amounts for administering or litigating claims as incurred. Accruals for legal proceedings are included in Other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
Freight Expense:
Freight expense associated with products shipped to customers is recognized in cost of sales.
 
Advertising and Promotion Expenses:
Advertising and promotion expenses are charged to operations in the period incurred. Customer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction to sales based on amounts estimated as being due to customers, based primarily on historical utilization and redemption rates, while other advertising and promotional activities are recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses. Advertising and promotion expenses for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $467 million, $493 million and $456 million, respectively.
 
26
 
Use of Estimates:
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards and Regulations:
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes," an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006; therefore, we will adopt FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal 2008. Currently we are evaluating the impact the adoption of this statement will have on our consolidated financial position and we expect the adoption of FIN 48 will result in a cumulative effect adjustment between $10 million and $25 million.  The adjustment will decrease retained earnings and increase other long-term liabilities.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. This standard also responds to investors" requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" (SFAS No. 159). This statement provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 at the beginning of fiscal 2009. We are in process of evaluating the potential impacts of SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159.
 
NOTE 2: CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" (SFAS No. 158). SFAS No. 158 requires companies to recognize the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its consolidated balance sheet and to recognize changes in funded status in the year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income. We adopted SFAS No. 158 at the end of fiscal 2007. This standard also requires companies to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of its annual consolidated balance sheet, with limited exceptions. This portion of the standard has a delayed effective date, which we will adopt in fiscal 2009. See Note 12, "Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 158.
 
In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission staff published Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,
"
Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements" (SAB 108). SAB 108 addresses quantifying the financial statement effects of misstatements, specifically, how the effects of prior year uncorrected errors must be considered in quantifying misstatements in the current year financial statements. We adopted SAB 108 at the end of fiscal 2007, and there was no impact to the consolidated financial statements.
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS No. 123R). The pronouncement requires companies to measure and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock and performance-based shares, in the financial statements based on the fair value at the date of the grant. In fiscal 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method. Under the modified prospective method, compensation cost is recognized for all share-based payments granted after the adoption of SFAS No. 123R and for all awards granted to employees prior to the adoption date of SFAS No. 123R that were unvested on the adoption date. Accordingly, no restatements were made to prior periods.
 
27
 
Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we applied Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" in accounting for our employee stock compensation plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense was recognized for our stock option issuances, as stock options are issued with an exercise price equal to the closing price at the date of grant. Also, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we issued restricted stock and recorded the fair value of such awards as deferred compensation amortized over the vesting period.
 
In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47, an interpretation of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 was issued in June 2001 and requires an entity to recognize the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. SFAS No. 143 applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset that resulted from the acquisition, construction, development and/or the normal operation of a long-lived asset. The associated asset costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. FIN 47 clarifies the term "conditional asset retirement obligation"
as used in SFAS No. 143, which refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. FIN 47 requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be estimated reasonably. Uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. SFAS No. 143 acknowledges in some cases, sufficient information may not be available to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation (ARO). We adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. In connection with the adoption, an ARO liability of $12 million, a related ARO asset of $3 million and a cumulative adjustment due to change in accounting principle, net of tax of $5 million were recorded. The ARO liability is included in Other Liabilities and the ARO asset is included in Property, Plant and Equipment on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The principal conditional asset retirement obligations relate to the potential future closure, sale or other disposal of certain production facilities. In connection with any such activity, we are legally obligated under various federal, state and local laws to properly retire the related wastewater treatment facility. The pro forma impact on earnings before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, the related earnings per share amounts and the asset retirement obligation, had FIN 47 been applied to fiscal 2005, was not material.
 
NOTE 3: DISCONTINUED OPERATION
 
On June 25, 2008, we executed a letter of intent with XL Foods Inc. to sell the beef processing, cattle feedyard and fertilizer assets of Lakeside for $106 million. Lakeside was part of our Beef segment. XL Foods will pay an additional amount for cattle inventory, fertilizer inventory and packaging assets, estimated to approximate $85 million. This transaction is denominated in Canadian Dollars, so conversion at the closing date to US Dollars could be different than noted above. We will retain the finished product inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable of the Lakeside operation as of the closing date.
 
The transaction remains subject to government approvals, receipt of commercially reasonable financing by XL Foods and execution of a definitive agreement between Tyson and XL Foods. We hope to complete the sale by the end of fiscal 2008 and are reporting the Lakeside results as a discontinued operation.
 
The following is a summary of Lakeside's operating results (in millions):
 
 
The carrying amounts of Lakeside's assets held for sale include the following (in millions):
 
 
 
28
 
NOTE 4: DISPOSITIONS AND OTHER CHARGES
 
In May 2007, we announced the completion of the sale of two of our Alabama poultry plants and related support facilities. As part of strategic efforts to reduce the production of commodity chicken, we sold our processing plants in Ashland and Gadsden, which also included a nearby feed mill and two hatcheries. These facilities employed approximately 1,200 employees, of which approximately 800 were hired by the acquiring company, while the remaining employees were offered the opportunity to transfer to our other operations in Alabama. We recorded a gain of $10 million on the sale in fiscal 2007. The gain was recorded in the Chicken segment's Operating Income (Loss) and included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in Cost of Sales.
 
In July 2006, we announced our decision to implement a Cost Management Initiative as part of a strategy to return to profitability. The cost reductions include staffing costs, consulting and professional fees, sales and marketing costs and other expenses. In fiscal 2006, we recorded charges of approximately $9 million for employee termination benefits resulting from the termination of approximately 400 employees. Of these charges, $4 million, $3 million, $1 million and $1 million, respectively, were included in the Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods segments' Operating Income (Loss) and included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in Other charges in the period ending September 30, 2006. In fiscal 2007, there were no material adjustments to amounts accrued. We have fully paid the estimated employee termination benefits. No material adjustments to the accrual are anticipated.
 
In August 2006, we announced our decision to close the Boise, Idaho, beef slaughter plant and to scale back processing operations at our Pasco, Washington, complex. This decision resulted in the elimination of approximately 770 positions. The closure and processing change occurred in October 2006 and did not result in a significant charge.
 
In February 2006, we announced our decision to close the Norfolk, Nebraska, beef processing plant and the West Point, Nebraska, beef slaughter plant. These facilities closed in February 2006. Production from these facilities was shifted primarily to our beef complex in Dakota City, Nebraska. Combined, these two facilities employed approximately 1,665 employees. We sold the West Point plant in fiscal 2007, while the Norfolk plant and related property are currently offered for sale. In fiscal 2006, we recorded charges of $38 million for estimated impairment charges and $9 million of other closing costs, consisting of $5 million for employee termination benefits and $4 million in other plant closing related liabilities. These amounts were reflected in the Beef segment's Operating Income (Loss) and included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in Other charges. We have fully paid the estimated employee termination benefits and other plant closing related liabilities. No material adjustments to the accrual are anticipated.
 
In January 2006, we announced our decision to close two processed meats facilities in northeast Iowa. The Independence and Oelwein plants, which produced chopped ham and sliced luncheon meats, closed in March 2006. Combined, these two facilities employed approximately 400 employees. Equipment from these facilities was removed and either sold or transferred to our other locations, while the plants and related property are currently offered for sale. In fiscal 2006, we recorded charges of $12 million for estimated impairment charges and $1 million for employee termination benefits. These amounts were reflected in the Prepared Foods segment's Operating Income (Loss) and included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in Other charges. We have fully paid the estimated employee termination benefits. No material adjustments to the accrual are anticipated.
 
In fiscal 2005, we announced our agreement to settle a lawsuit that resulted from the 2002 restructuring of our live swine operations. The settlement resulted in recording an additional $33 million of costs in fiscal 2005. These additional costs were reflected in the Pork segment's Operating Income (Loss) and included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in Other charges. No material adjustments to the accrual are anticipated.
 
NOTE 5: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
We had derivative related balances of $16 million and $11 million recorded in other current assets at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, respectively, and $48 million and $23 million in other current liabilities at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, respectively.
 
29
 
Cash flow hedges:
We use derivatives to moderate the financial and commodity market risks of our business operations. Derivative products, such as futures and options, are designated to be a hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows related to commodities procurement.
 
The effective portion of the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Shareholders' Equity and recognized into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings (for grain commodity hedges, when the chickens that consumed the hedged grain are sold). The remaining cumulative gain or loss on the derivative instrument in excess of the cumulative change in the present value of the future cash flows of the hedged item, if any, is recognized in earnings during the period of change. Ineffectiveness related to our cash flow hedges was not significant during fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005.
 
Derivative products related to grain procurement that meet the criteria for hedge accounting and are so designated, are considered cash flow hedges, as they hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows related to commodities procurement. We do not purchase derivative products related to grain procurement in excess of our physical grain consumption requirements. There were $4 million of net after tax losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 29, 2007, related to cash flow hedges. These losses will be recognized within the next 12 months. Of these losses, the portion resulting from our open hedge positions was an after tax gain of $1 million as of September 29, 2007. We generally do not hedge cash flows related to commodities beyond 12 months.
 
Fair value hedges:
We designate certain futures contracts as fair value hedges of firm commitments to purchase market hogs for slaughter and natural gas for the operation of our plants. From time to time, we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge changes in the fair value of receivables and purchase commitments arising from changes in the exchange rates of foreign currencies; however, the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts was not significant as of September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk (including gains or losses on firm commitments), are recorded in current period earnings. Ineffectiveness results when the change in the fair value of the hedge instrument differs from the change in fair value of the hedged item. Ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges was not significant during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
During fiscal 2006, we discontinued the use of hedge accounting for certain financial instruments in place to hedge forward cattle purchases. Hedge accounting was discontinued to provide a natural offset to the gains and losses resulting from our derivatives tied to forward fixed price sales of boxed beef, as this activity does not qualify for hedge accounting. The contracts for which hedge accounting was discontinued had a fair value of approximately $28 million at the discontinued date. The $28 million primarily was recognized as a component of cost of sales in fiscal 2006.
 
Undesignated positions:
We hold positions as part of our risk management activities, primarily futures and options for grains, livestock and natural gas, for which we do not apply hedge accounting, but instead mark these positions to fair value through earnings at each reporting date. Changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories or supplies are recorded in cost of sales. Changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. We generally do not enter into undesignated positions beyond 18 months. We recognized pretax net gains of approximately $50 million, $8 million and $2 million in cost of sales for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to grain positions for which we did not apply hedge accounting.
 
30
 
We enter into certain forward sales of boxed beef and boxed pork and forward purchases of cattle at fixed prices. The fixed price sales contracts lock in the proceeds from a sale in the future and the fixed cattle purchases lock in the cost. However, the cost of the livestock and the related boxed beef and pork market prices at the time of the sale or purchase could vary from this fixed price. In order to mitigate a portion of this risk, as fixed forward sales of boxed beef and pork and forward purchases of cattle are entered into, we also enter into the appropriate number of livestock futures positions. Changes in market value of the open livestock futures positions are marked to market and reported in earnings at each reporting date, even though the economic impact of our fixed prices being above or below the market price is only realized at the time of sale or purchase. In connection with these livestock futures, we recorded realized and unrealized net gains of $14 million in fiscal 2007, which included an unrealized pretax loss on open mark-to-market futures positions of approximately $14 million as of September 29, 2007. We recorded realized and unrealized net losses of $39 million and realized and unrealized net gains of $26 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to livestock futures positions.
 
 
Fair values are based on quoted market prices or published forward interest rate curves. Carrying values for derivative positions equal the fair values as of September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, and the carrying values of total debt were $2.8 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. All other financial instruments' fair values approximate recorded values at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006.
 
Concentrations of Credit Risk:
Our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. Cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. We perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. At September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, approximately 12.1% and 13.0%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from one customer. No other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable.
 
NOTE 6: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
The major categories of property, plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation at cost, at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, are as follows:
 
 
We capitalized interest costs of $2 million, $8 million and $6 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, as part of the cost of major asset construction projects. Approximately $194 million will be required to complete construction projects in progress at September 29, 2007.
 
31
 
NOTE 7: GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The amount of goodwill by segment, net of $286 million of accumulated amortization at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, is as follows:
 
 
Adjustments of $28 million, primarily related to the re-evaluation of certain tax liability accruals and deferred tax assets and liabilities related to the 2001 acquisition of Tyson Fresh Meats (TFM; formerly known as IBP, inc.), decreased goodwill.
 
The amount of other intangible assets by type at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, are as follows:
 
 
The reduction in the carrying value of intangible assets in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 resulted from a $7 million impairment of trademarks. The impairment was recorded in Cost of Sales in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and included in the Prepared Foods segment. Amortization expense on patents of $3 million was recognized during each of fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
Patents are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period of benefit of five to 15 years, beginning with the date the benefits from intangible items are realized.
 
NOTE 8: OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
Other current liabilities at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, include:
 
 
 
32
 
NOTE 9: COMMITMENTS
 
We lease equipment, properties and certain farms for which total rentals approximated $133 million in fiscal 2007, $146 million in fiscal 2006 and $116 million in fiscal 2005. Most leases have terms ranging from one to seven years with varying renewal periods. The most significant obligations assumed under the terms of the leases are the upkeep of the facilities and payments of insurance and property taxes.
 
 
We guarantee debt of outside third parties, which involve a lease and grower loans, all of which are substantially collateralized by the underlying assets. Terms of the underlying debt cover periods up to nine years, and the maximum potential amount of future payments as of September 29, 2007, was $73 million. We also maintain operating leases for various types of equipment, some of which contain residual value guarantees for the market value of assets at the end of the term of the lease. The terms of the lease maturities cover periods up to seven years. The maximum potential amount of the residual value guarantees is approximately $58 million, of which approximately $25 million would be recoverable through various recourse provisions and an undeterminable recoverable amount based on the fair market value of the underlying leased assets. The likelihood of material payments under these guarantees is not considered probable. At September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, no liabilities for guarantees were recorded.
 
Additionally, we enter into future purchase commitments for various items, such as grains and livestock contracts. At September 29, 2007, these commitments totaled:
 
 
NOTE 10: LONG-TERM DEBT
 
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility totaling $1.0 billion that supports short-term funding needs and letters of credit. The facility expires in September 2010. At September 29, 2007, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling approximately $252 million, none of which were drawn upon, issued primarily in support of workers' compensation insurance programs and derivative activities. The amount available as of September 29, 2007, was $748 million.
 
33
 
We have a receivables purchase agreement with three co-purchasers to sell up to $750 million of trade receivables. These agreements were extended in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and now consist of $375 million expiring in August 2008 and $375 million expiring in August 2010. The receivables purchase agreement has been accounted for as a borrowing and has an interest rate based on commercial paper issued by the co-purchasers. Under this agreement, substantially all of our accounts receivable are sold to a special purpose entity, Tyson Receivables Corporation (TRC), which is a wholly-owned consolidated subsidiary of the Company. TRC has its own creditors who are entitled to be satisfied out of all of the assets of TRC prior to any value becoming available to the Company as TRC's equity holder. At September 29, 2007, there was $106.5 million outstanding under the receivables purchase agreement expiring in August 2008 and $106.5 million under the agreement expiring in August 2010.
 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we issued $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes, which will mature on April 1, 2016 (2016 Notes). The 2016 Notes carried an initial 6.60% interest rate, with interest payments due semi-annually on April 1 and October 1. In fiscal 2007, we used $750 million of the proceeds to repay our outstanding $750 million 7.25% Notes due October 1, 2006.
 
On July 24, 2006, Moody's Investors Services, Inc. (Moody's) downgraded the credit rating applicable to the 2016 Notes from "Baa3" to "Ba1." This downgrade increased the interest rate on the 2016 Notes from 6.60% to 6.85%, effective on the first day of the interest period during which the rating change required an adjustment to the interest rate (i.e., the issuance of the 2016 Notes). This downgrade did not have a material impact to interest expense. Additionally, on July 31, 2006, Standard & Poor's (S&P) downgraded the credit rating applicable to the 2016 Notes from "BBB" to "BBB-." This downgrade did not result in an increase in the interest rate on the 2016 Notes, nor did it result in an increase in interest expense or related fees for other debt.
 
On September 18, 2006, TFM, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, guaranteed the 2016 Notes. This guarantee does not extend to the other unsecured senior notes of the Company. Moody's and S&P did not change the July 2006 credit ratings applicable to the 2016 Notes. However, Moody's issued a new credit rating of "Ba2," and S&P issued a new credit rating of "BB+" related to the other unsecured senior notes not guaranteed by TFM. These new ratings did not impact the interest rate applicable to the 2016 Notes and did not have a material impact on interest expense.
 
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, the most restrictive of which contain maximum allowed leverage ratios and a minimum required interest coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at September 29, 2007.
 
Long-term debt consists of the following:
 
 
Annual maturities of long-term debt for the five fiscal years subsequent to September 29, 2007, are: 2008-$137 million; 2009-$35 million; 2010-$347 million; 2011-$1.0 billion; 2012-$1 million.
 
TFM, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the 2016 Notes. The following condensed consolidating financial information is provided for the Company, as issuer, and for TFM, as guarantor, as an alternative to providing separate financial statements for the guarantor.
 
34
 
The following financial information presents condensed consolidating financial statements, which include Tyson Foods, Inc. (TFI Parent); Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc. (TFM Parent); the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis; the elimination entries necessary to consolidate TFI Parent, TFM Parent and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries; and Tyson Foods, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38
 
 
NOTE 11: COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
 
The components of accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows:
 
 
(1) Includes adjustment of $3 million, net of tax, relating to the initial adoption of SFAS No. 158. Refer to Note 12, "Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits."
 
The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:
 
 
NOTE 12: STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
 
Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R in fiscal 2006, we applied Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" in accounting for our employee stock compensation plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense was recognized for stock option issuances, as stock options are issued with an exercise price equal to the closing price at the date of grant. Also, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we issued restricted stock and recorded the fair value of such awards as deferred compensation amortized over the vesting period. Had compensation expense for employee stock compensation plans been determined based on the fair value method of accounting for our stock compensation plans according to FASB Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," in fiscal 2005 the tax-effected impact would be as follows:
 
39
 
 
 
We issue shares under our stock-based compensation plans by issuing Class A stock from treasury. The total number of shares available for future grant under the Tyson Foods, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (Incentive Plan) was 27,431,170 at September 29, 2007.
 
Stock Options
Shareholders approved the Incentive Plan in January 2001. The Incentive Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (Compensation Committee). The Incentive Plan includes provisions for granting incentive stock options for shares of Class A stock at a price not less than the fair market value at the date of grant. Nonqualified stock options may be granted at a price equal to, less than or more than the fair market value of Class A stock on the date the option is granted. Stock options
under the Incentive Plan generally become exercisable ratably over two to five years from the date of grant and must be exercised within 10 years from the date of grant. Our policy is to recognize compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.
 
 
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively, was $5.85 and $6.86. No options were granted in fiscal 2005. The fair value of each option grant is established on the date of grant using a binomial lattice method for grants awarded after October 1, 2005, and the Black-Scholes option-pricing model for grants awarded before October 1, 2005. The change to the binomial lattice method was made to better reflect the exercise behavior of top management. We use historical volatility for a period of time comparable to the expected life of the option to determine volatility assumptions. Expected life is calculated based on the contractual term of each grant and takes into account the historical exercise and termination behavior of participants. Risk-free interest rates are based on the five-year Treasury bond rate. Weighted average assumptions used in the fair value calculation are outlined in the following table.
 
40
 
 
 
We recognized stock-based compensation expense related to stock options, net of income taxes, of $11 million, $9 million and $0, respectively, during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, with a $6 million, $5 million and $0 related tax benefit. We had 3.3 million, 3.3 million and 2.4 million, respectively, options vest in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, with a fair value of $18 million, $16 million and $10 million.
 
In fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, we received cash of $59 million, $28 million and $31 million, respectively, for the exercise of stock options. The related tax benefit realized from stock options exercised during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, was $12 million, $4 million and $6 million. The total intrinsic value of options exercised in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, was $31 million, $10 million and $15 million, respectively. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we classified the tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options as Cash Flows from Operating Activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. SFAS No. 123R requires the cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost of those options (excess tax deductions) to be classified as financing cash flows. We realized $9 million, $4 million and $6 million, respectively, in excess tax deductions during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005. As of September 29, 2007, we had $44 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option plans that will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.5 years.
 
Restricted Stock
We issue restricted stock at the market value as of the date of grant, with restrictions expiring over periods through July 1, 2020. Unearned compensation is recognized over the vesting period for the particular grant using a straight-line method.
 
 
As of September 29, 2007, we had $44 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock awards that will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.2 years.
 
We recognized stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock, net of income taxes, of $14 million, $15 million and $15 million for years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The related tax benefit for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $9 million in each year. We had 3.4 million, 0.4 million and 0.1 million, respectively, restricted stock awards vest in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, with a grant date fair value of $37 million, $5 million and $1 million.
 
41
 
Performance-based Shares
In July 2003, our Compensation Committee authorized us to award performance-based shares of our Class A stock having an initial maximum aggregate value of $4 million on the date of each award to certain senior executive officers on the first business day of each of the Company's 2004, 2005 and 2006 fiscal years. In August 2005 and September 2004, the Compensation Committee authorized the expansion of the fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 awards to include additional senior officers. The expansions increased the initial maximum aggregate value by $3 million and $2 million for the 2006 and 2005 grants, respectively. The vesting of the performance-based shares for the 2004 and 2005 awards is over three years, and the vesting of the 2006 award is over two and one-half to three years (the Vesting Period), each award being subject to the attainment of goals determined by the Compensation Committee prior to the date of the award. We review progress toward the attainment of goals each quarter during the Vesting Period. However, the attainment of goals can be determined only at the end of the Vesting Period. If the shares vest, the ultimate cost will be equal to the Class A stock price on the date the shares vest times the number of shares awarded for all performance grants with other than market criteria. For grants with market performance criteria, the ultimate cost will be the fair value of the probable shares to vest regardless if the shares actually vest. Total expense recorded related to performance-based shares was approximately $1 million in each of fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
NOTE 13: PENSIONS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
Effective September 29, 2007, we adopted SFAS No. 158, which requires the recognition in pension obligations and accumulated other comprehensive income of actuarial gains or losses, prior service costs or credits and transition assets or obligations previously deferred under the reporting requirements of SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 106 and SFAS No. 132(R). The following table reflects the effects of adoption of SFAS No. 158 on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 29, 2007.
 
 
We have both funded and unfunded noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering specific groups of employees. Two plans provide benefits based on a formula using years of service and a specified benefit rate. Effective January 1, 2004, we implemented a defined benefit plan for certain contracted officers that uses a formula based on years of service and final average salary. Additionally, two of our subsidiaries have frozen plans, whereby no new participants will be added and no future benefits will be earned. We also have other postretirement benefit plans for which substantially all of our employees may receive benefits if they satisfy applicable eligibility criteria. The postretirement healthcare plans are contributory with participants' contributions adjusted when deemed necessary.
 
We have defined contribution retirement and incentive benefit programs for various groups of employees. We recognized expenses of $46 million, $55 million and $56 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
We use a September 30 measurement date for our defined benefit plans and one postretirement medical plan and a July 31 measurement date for the remaining postretirement medical plans. We generally recognize the effect of actuarial gains and losses into earnings immediately for postretirement plans rather than amortizing the effect over future periods.
 
Other postretirement benefits include postretirement medical costs and life insurance.
 
42
 
Benefit obligations and funded status
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the plans' benefit obligations, assets and funded status at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006:
 
 
Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist of:
 
 
The increase (decrease) in the pretax minimum liability related to our pension plans included in other comprehensive income (loss) was $(9) million, $16 million and $2 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
At September 29, 2007, three pension plans had an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets. At September 30, 2006, all pension plans had an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets. The accumulated benefit obligation for all pension plans was $128 million and $122 million at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, respectively. Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets are as follows:
 
43
 
 
 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost
 
Components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and postretirement benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations are as follows:
 
 
Assumptions
 
Weighted average assumptions are as follows:
 
 
To determine the rate-of-return on assets assumption, we first examined historical rates of return for the various asset classes. We then determined a long-term projected rate-of-return based on expected returns over the next five to 10 years. Prior to fiscal 2004, we only had defined benefit plans that provided a retirement benefit based on the number of years of service multiplied by a benefit rate.
 
We have four postretirement health plans. Two of these consist of fixed, annual payments and account for $35 million of the postretirement medical obligation at September 29, 2007. A healthcare cost trend is not required to determine this obligation. The remaining two plans, Pre-Medicare and Post-Medicare, account for $14 million of the postretirement medical obligation at September 29, 2007. The Pre-Medicare plan covers retirees who do not yet qualify for Medicare and uses a healthcare cost trend of 10% in the current year, grading down to 6% in fiscal 2012. The decision was made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 to outsource the Post-Medicare plan to a third party insurer. This decision effectively settled the plan and no healthcare cost trend is applicable to this plan at year end. Additionally, we recognized a gain of approximately $27 million related to this plan change. Claims in excess of the negotiated annual maximum payment are paid by the plan participants. A one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have an immaterial impact on the postretirement benefit obligation and total service and interest cost.
 
 
44
 
Plan Assets
 
The fair value of plan assets for domestic union pension benefit plans was $80 million and $71 million as of September 29, 2007, September 30, 2006, respectively. The following table sets forth the actual and target asset allocation for pension plan assets:
 
 
During fiscal 2005, we recorded the assets and benefit obligation related to a foreign subsidiary. This pension plan had $17 million and $14 million in plan assets at September 29, 2007, and September 30, 2006, respectively. All of this plan's assets are held in annuity contracts consistent with its target asset allocation.
 
The Plan Trustees have established a set of investment objectives related to the assets of the pension plans and regularly monitor the performance of the funds and portfolio managers. Objectives for the pension assets are (1) to provide growth of capital and income, (2) to achieve a target weighted average annual rate of return competitive with other funds with similar investment objectives and (3) to diversify to reduce risk. The investment objectives and target asset allocation were updated in January 2004.
 
Contributions
 
Our policy is to fund at least the minimum contribution required to meet applicable federal employee benefit and local tax laws. In our sole discretion, we may from time to time fund additional amounts. Expected contributions to pension plans for fiscal 2008 are approximately $3 million. For fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, we funded $5 million, $0 and $10 million, respectively, to defined benefit plans.
 
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
 
The following benefit payments are expected to be paid:
 
 
The above benefit payments for other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be materially offset by Medicare Part D subsidies in 2008 or thereafter.
 
NOTE 14: SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
 
Certain non-cash transactions were excluded from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2007. Adjustments of $28 million, primarily related to the re-evaluation of certain tax liability accruals and deferred tax assets and liabilities related to the 2001 acquisition of TFM, decreased goodwill.
 
Certain non-cash transactions were excluded from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2006. Adjustments of $12 million, primarily related to deferred tax asset and liability adjustments related to the acquisitions in previous years of TFM and the assets of Millard Processing Services, increased goodwill.
 
45
 
In fiscal 2005, adjustments of $53 million were made to remove pre-acquisition tax liability accruals no longer necessary due to the closure of an IRS examination and the re-evaluation of certain pre-acquisition deferred tax liabilities. The adjustments include $46 million and $7 million of adjustments to pre-acquisition deferred tax assets and liabilities related to acquisitions in previous years of TFM and Hudson Foods, Inc., respectively, and decreased goodwill.
 
The following table summarizes cash payments for interest and income taxes:
 
 
NOTE 15: TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES
 
We have operating leases for farms, equipment and other facilities with Don Tyson, a director of the Company, John Tyson, Chairman of the Company, certain members of their families and the Randal W. Tyson Testamentary Trust. Total payments of $5 million in fiscal 2007, $8 million in fiscal 2006, and $9 million in fiscal 2005, were paid to entities in which these parties had an ownership interest.
 
In fiscal 2005, we received approximately $4 million from entities owned by Don Tyson and John Tyson, as payment for the purchase of certain properties owned by the Company.
 
NOTE 16: INCOME TAXES
 
Detail of the provision (benefit) for income taxes from continuing operations consists of:
 
 
The reasons for the difference between the statutory federal income tax rate and the effective income tax rate from continuing operations are as follows:
 
 
During fiscal 2007, we discovered a certain population of our tax cost and accumulated depreciation values were not accurately recorded, primarily related to a property, plant and equipment system conversion in 1999. This system conversion did not impact the recorded book value of the property, plant and equipment. As a result, the net tax basis of property, plant and equipment was overstated, which caused the deferred tax liability in our financial statements to be understated. In 2007, we increased our deferred tax liabilities $17 million and recognized additional tax expense of $17 million.
 
The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate from continuing operations was reduced by 4.6% due to the reduction of income tax reserves
 
46
 
management deemed were no longer required. The net reduction to current income tax expense from continuing operations of approximately $20 million related to Internal Revenue Service examinations, appeals and United States Tax Court settlement activity, as well as state income tax examination settlements. Additional related adjustments resulted in a $28 million reduction of goodwill.
 
During fiscal 2006, we completed a review of our tax account balances, and as a result, reduced our income tax benefit from continuing operations by $15 million. This included $12 million related to additional tax reserves for our foreign operations and $3 million related to a cumulative adjustment to our recorded tax balances attributable to book to tax differences associated with property, plant and equipment (including synthetic leases) and certain acquired deferred tax liabilities. Additional adjustments resulted in an increase to goodwill of $12 million, deferred tax liabilities of $3 million and a reduction of property, plant and equipment of $9 million.
 
Deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.
 
The tax effects of major items recorded as deferred tax assets and liabilities are:
 
 
Net deferred tax liabilities are included in Other Current Assets, Other Current Liabilities and Deferred Income Taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
The deferred tax liability for suspended taxes from conversion to accrual method represents the 1987 change from the cash to accrual method of accounting and will be recognized by 2027.
 
We have accumulated undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries aggregating approximately $215 million and $153 million at September 29, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively. These earnings are expected to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. If those earnings were distributed in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to federal income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign countries. It is not currently practicable to estimate the tax liability that might be payable on the repatriation of these foreign earnings.
 
The tax effected valuation allowance of $55 million consists of $30 million for state tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, $11 million for federal net operating loss and other miscellaneous carryforwards and $14 million for international net operating loss carryforwards. The state tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards expire in fiscal years 2008 through 2026. At September 29, 2007, after considering utilization restrictions, our gross federal tax loss carryforwards, which include net operating losses, capital losses and charitable contribution carryforwards, approximated $190 million. Gross federal net operating loss carryforwards of $33 million, are subject to utilization limitations due to ownership changes and may be utilized to offset future taxable income subject to limitations. These carryforwards expire during fiscal years 2008 through 2026. The $55 million valuation allowance described above includes $11 million, that if subsequently recognized, will be allocated to reduce goodwill, which was recorded at the time of acquisition of TFM.
 
We provide tax reserves for federal, state, local and international exposures relating to audit results, tax planning initiatives and compliance responsibilities. Evaluation of these reserves requires judgments about tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is an inherently subjective estimate. Although the outcome of these tax items is uncertain, in our opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for potential liabilities relating to these exposures.
 
47
 
NOTE 17: EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE
 
The earnings and weighted average common shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share are as follows:
 
 
Approximately four million, 28 million and two million, respectively, in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, of our option shares were antidilutive and were not included in the dilutive earnings per share calculation.
 
We have two classes of capital stock, Class A stock and Class B stock. Cash dividends cannot be paid to holders of Class B stock unless they are simultaneously paid to holders of Class A stock. The per share amount of cash dividends paid to holders of Class B stock cannot exceed 90% of the cash dividend paid to holders of Class A stock.
 
48
 
We allocate undistributed earnings (losses) based upon a 1 to 0.9 ratio per share of Class A stock and Class B stock, respectively. We allocate undistributed earnings (losses) based on this ratio due to historical dividend patterns, voting control of Class B shareholders and contractual limitations of dividends to Class B stock.
 
NOTE 18: SEGMENT REPORTING
 
We operate in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. We measure segment profit as operating income (loss).
 
Chicken:
 Chicken operations include breeding and raising chickens, as well as processing live chickens into fresh, frozen and value-added chicken products. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. The Chicken segment also includes sales from allied products and our chicken breeding stock subsidiary.
 
Beef:
 Beef operations include processing live fed cattle and fabrication of dressed beef carcasses into primal and sub-primal meat cuts and case-ready products. The Beef segment also derives value from allied products such as hides and variety meats for sale to further processors and others. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. Allied products are also marketed to manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and technical products.
 
Pork:
 Pork operations include processing live market hogs and fabricating pork carcasses into primal and sub-primal cuts and case-ready products. This segment also includes our live swine group and related allied product processing activities. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. We also sell allied products to pharmaceutical and technical products manufacturers, as well as live swine to pork processors.
 
Prepared Foods:
 Prepared foods operations manufacture and market frozen and refrigerated food products. Products include pepperoni, bacon, beef and pork pizza toppings, pizza crusts, flour and corn tortilla products, appetizers, prepared meals, ethnic foods, soups, sauces, side dishes, meat dishes and processed meats. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world.
 
49
 
 
 
 
We allocate expenses related to corporate activities to the segments, while the related assets and additions to property, plant and equipment remain in Other.
 
The Pork segment had sales of $515 million, $467 million and $505 million for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, from transactions with other operating segments. The Beef segment had sales of $111 million, $104 million and $85 million for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, from transactions with other operating segments. These sales from intersegment transactions, which are sold at market prices, were excluded from the segment sales in the above table.
 
Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 13.4%, 13.0% and 13.7% of consolidated sales in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. were included in the Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods segments. Any extended discontinuance of sales to this customer could, if not replaced, have a material impact on our operations.
 
The majority of our operations are domiciled in the United States. Approximately 98% of sales to external customers for each of fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, were sourced from the United States. Approximately $6.0 billion, $6.3 billion and $6.3 billion, respectively, of long-lived assets were located in the United States at September 29, 2007, September 30, 2006, and October 1, 2005. Approximately $125 million, $116 million and $118 million of long-lived assets were located in foreign countries, primarily Mexico, at fiscal years ended 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
We sell certain products in foreign markets, primarily Canada, Central America, China, the European Union, Japan, Mexico, Russia, South Korea, and Taiwan. Our export sales totaled $2.5 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Substantially all of our export sales are facilitated through unaffiliated brokers, marketing associations and foreign sales staffs. Foreign sales, which are sales of products produced in a country other than the United States, were less than 10% of total consolidated sales for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. Approximately 10% and 12% of income from continuing operations before income taxes for fiscal 2007 and 2005, was from foreign operations. In fiscal 2006, we had income from continuing operations before income taxes related to foreign operations of $13 million.
 
50
 
NOTE 19: QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
51
 
In June 2008, we executed a letter of intent to sell the beef processing, cattle feedyard and fertilizer assets of Lakeside Farm Industries Ltd. We are reporting Lakeside as a discontinued operation and have restated the quarterly financial data accordingly.
 
Fourth quarter fiscal 2007 income from continuing operations includes tax expense of $17 million related to a fixed asset tax cost correction.
 
Second quarter fiscal 2006 operating income includes $45 million of costs related to beef plant closings and $14 million related to prepared foods plant closings. Fourth quarter fiscal 2006 operating income includes $19 million of charges related to the Cost Management Initiative and other business consolidation efforts. These charges include severance expenses, product rationalization costs and related intangible asset impairment expenses.
 
NOTE 20:
 
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
 
During fiscal 2007, Tyson Limited Partnership converted 15.9 million shares of Class B stock to Class A stock on a one-for-one basis.
 
During fiscal 2006, Tyson Limited Partnership converted 15 million shares of Class B stock to Class A stock on a one-for-one basis.
Additionally, Don Tyson, a director, converted 750,000 shares of Class B stock to Class A stock on a one-for-one basis.
 
NOTE 21:
 
CONTINGENCIES
 
Listed below are certain claims made against the Company and our subsidiaries. In our opinion, we have made appropriate and adequate reserves, accruals and disclosures where necessary, and believe the probability of a material loss beyond the amounts accrued to be remote; however, the ultimate liability for these matters is uncertain, and if accruals and reserves are not adequate, an adverse outcome could have a material effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations. We believe we have substantial defenses to the claims made and intend to vigorously defend these cases.
 
In 2000, the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) conducted an industry-wide investigation of poultry producers, including us, to ascertain compliance with various wage and hour issues. As part of this investigation, the DOL inspected 14 of our processing facilities. On May 9, 2002, the DOL filed a civil complaint styled
Elaine L. Chao, Secretary of Labor, United States Department of Labor v. Tyson Foods, Inc
. against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. The plaintiffs allege in the complaint that we violated the overtime provisions of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act at our chicken-processing facility in Blountsville, Alabama. The complaint does not contain a definite statement of what acts constituted alleged violations of the statute, although the Secretary of Labor indicated in discovery the case seeks to require us to compensate all hourly chicken processing workers for pre- and post-shift clothes changing, washing and related activities and for one of two unpaid 30-minute meal periods. The Secretary of Labor seeks unspecified back wages for all employees at the Blountsville facility for a period of two years prior to the date of the filing of the complaint, and an additional amount in unspecified liquidated damages and an injunction against future violations at that facility and all other chicken processing facilities we operate. We filed a motion for partial summary judgment on July 23, 2007. Although no date has been set, the trial of this matter is likely to occur within the next year.
 
Several private lawsuits are pending against us alleging that we failed to compensate poultry plant employees for all hours worked, including overtime compensation, in violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act. These lawsuits include
M.H. Fox, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (Fox)
, filed on June 22, 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama, and
De Asencio v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (DeAsencio)
, filed on August 22, 2000, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Each of these matters involves similar allegations that employees should be paid for the time it takes to engage in pre- and post-shift activities such as changing into and out of protective and sanitary clothing, obtaining clothing and walking to and from the changing area, work areas and break areas. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits seek or have sought to act as class representatives on behalf of all current and former employees who were allegedly not paid for time worked and seek back wages, liquidated damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, and attorneys' fees. In
Fox
, the District Court denied class certification on November 16, 2006 and ordered the cases of the 10 named plaintiffs in the matter to proceed individually in the home jurisdictions of the named plaintiffs. In
DeAsencio
, plaintiffs appealed a jury verdict and final judgment entered in our favor on June 22, 2006, in the District Court. On September 7, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the jury verdict and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. We sought rehearing en banc, which was denied by the Court of Appeals on October 5, 2007. A further appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court must be made by January 3, 2008, or the case will be remanded to the District Court.
 
52
 
In addition to
Fox
and
DeAsencio
, additional private lawsuits were filed against us since the beginning of fiscal 2007 which allege Tyson failed to compensate poultry plant employees for all hours worked, including overtime compensation, in violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act. These lawsuits are
Sheila Ackles, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(N. Dist. Alabama, October 23, 2006);
McCluster, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(M. Dist. Georgia, December 11, 2006);
Dobbins, et al. v. Tyson Chicken, Inc., et al.
(N. Dist. Alabama, December 21, 2006);
Buchanan, et al. v. Tyson Chicken, Inc
.,
et al.
and
Potter, et al. v. Tyson Chicken, Inc., et al.
(N. Dist. Alabama, December 22, 2006);
Jones, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., et al., Walton, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., et al.
and
Williams, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., et al.
(S. Dist. Mississippi, February 9, 2007);
Balch, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(E. Dist. Oklahoma, March 1, 2007);
Adams, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(W. Dist. Arkansas, March 2, 2007);
Atkins, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(M. Dist. Georgia, March 5, 2007); and
Laney, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
and
Williams, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(M. Dist. Georgia, May 23, 2007). Similar to
Fox
and
DeAsencio
, each of these matters involves allegations employees should be paid for the time it takes to engage in pre- and post-shift activities such as changing into and out of protective and sanitary clothing, obtaining clothing and walking to and from the changing area, work areas and break areas. The plaintiffs in each of these lawsuits seek or have sought to act as class representatives on behalf of all current and former employees who were allegedly not paid for time worked and seek back wages, liquidated damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, and attorneys' fees. On April 6, 2007, we filed a motion for transfer of the above named actions for coordinated pretrial proceedings before the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. The motion for transfer was granted on August 17, 2007, and the cases listed above were transferred to the federal district court in the Middle District of Georgia,
In re: Tyson Foods, Inc., Fair Labor Standards Act Litigation
.
 
On November 21, 2002, 10 current and former hourly employees of a TFM case ready facility in Goodlettsville, Tennessee filed a putative class action lawsuit styled
Emily D. Jordan, et al. v. IBP, inc. and Tyson Foods, Inc
. in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee against us claiming violations of the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act by failing to pay employees for all hours worked. The suit further alleges employees should be paid for the time it takes to collect, assemble and put on, take off and wash their health, safety and production gear at the beginning and end of their shifts and during their meal period. Finally, the suit alleges we deduct 30 minutes per day from employees' paychecks regardless of whether employees use a full 30-minute period for their meal. The plaintiffs seek a declaration that the defendants did not comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act, and an award for an unspecified amount of back pay compensation and benefits, unpaid entitlements, liquidated damages, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, attorney fees and costs. On November 17, 2003, the District Court conditionally certified a collective action based on clothes changing and washing activities and unpaid production work during meal periods, since the plant operations began in April 2001. Approximately 573 current and former employees have opted into the class. On August 20, 2007, both parties filed motions for summary judgment. Trial was again rescheduled and is now set to begin on September 16, 2008.
 
53
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Tyson Foods, Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tyson Foods, Inc. as of September 29, 2007 and September 30, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 29, 2007. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 9.01 as Exhibit 99.1, Part IV, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules, Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Tyson Foods, Inc. at September 29, 2007 and September 30, 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 29, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
 
As described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2006 the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, "Share-Based Payments".
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Tyson Foods, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of September 29, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated November 19, 2007, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
Rogers, Arkansas
November 19, 2007, except for those matters described in Note 1 "Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" as it relates to Discontinued Operations, and Note 3 "Discontinued Operations," as to which the date is September 3, 2008.
 
 
 
 
54
 
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
TYSON FOODS, INC.
SCHEDULE II
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
Three Years Ended September 29, 2007
 
 
 
55
 
EXHIBIT 12.1
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
 
 
 
 
 
56
 


Exhibit 99.2
 
PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 1. Financial Statements
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share and per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
 
2
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
 
 
3
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 1:
  
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared by Tyson Foods, Inc. (collectively, "the Company," "we," "us" or "our"). Certain information and accounting policies and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. Although we believe the disclosures contained herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, these consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2007. Preparation of consolidated condensed financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated condensed financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
We believe the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements contain all adjustments necessary to present fairly our financial position as of December 29, 2007, and the results of operations and cash flows for the three months ended December 29, 2007, and December 30, 2006. Results of operations and cash flows for the three months ended December 29, 2007, and December 30, 2006, are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
On June 25, 2008, we executed a letter of intent with XL Foods Inc. to sell the beef processing, cattle feedyard and fertilizer assets of Lakeside Farm Industries Ltd (Lakeside), our wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary. The financial statements herein are reissued to reflect the reclassification of operations to discontiued operations. See Note 2: Discontinued Operation in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for further information.
 
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes," an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. We adopted FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal 2008. The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in a change to the opening Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets as follows: $32 million increase to Other Current Assets, $17 million decrease to Other Current Liabilities, $106 million increase to Other Liabilities, $40 million decrease to Deferred Income Taxes and $17 million decrease to Retained Earnings. Included in these changes we recognized a $120 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a $21 million increase in the related liability for interest and penalties for a total of $141 million.
 
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. This standard also responds to investors' requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" (SFAS No. 159). This statement provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No.
 
4
 
157 and SFAS No. 159 at the beginning of fiscal 2009. We are in process of evaluating the potential impacts of SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements" (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements" to establish accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This statement clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity and should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements, rather than in the liability or mezzanine section between liabilities and equity. SFAS No. 160 also requires consolidated net income be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The impact of SFAS No. 160 will not have a material impact on our current Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 160 at the beginning of fiscal 2010.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141R, "Business Combinations" (SFAS No. 141R). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination: 1) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree; 2) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; and 3) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 141R for any business combinations entered into beginning in fiscal 2010.
 
NOTE 2: DISCONTINUED OPERATION
 
On June 25, 2008, we executed a letter of intent with XL Foods Inc. to sell the beef processing, cattle feedyard and fertilizer assets of Lakeside for $106 million. Lakeside was part of our Beef segment. XL Foods will pay an additional amount for cattle inventory, fertilizer inventory and packaging assets, estimated to approximate $85 million. This transaction is denominated in Canadian Dollars, so conversion at the closing date to US Dollars could be different than noted above. We will retain the finished product inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable of the Lakeside operation as of the closing date.
 
The transaction remains subject to government approvals, receipt of commercially reasonable financing by XL Foods and execution of a definitive agreement between Tyson and XL Foods. We hope to complete the sale by the end of fiscal 2008 and are reporting the Lakeside results as a discontinued operation.
 
The following is a summary of Lakeside's operating results (in millions):
 
 
The carrying amounts of Lakeside's assets held for sale include the following (in millions):
 
 
 
5
 
 
NOTE 3: DISPOSITIONS AND OTHER CHARGES
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded an $18 million non-operating gain as the result of a private equity firm's purchase of a technology company in which we held a minority interest. This gain was recorded in Other Income in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, management approved plans for implementation of certain recommendations resulting from the previously announced FAST initiative, which was focused on process improvement and efficiency creation. As a result, in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded charges of $6 million related to employee termination benefits resulting from the termination of approximately 200 employees. Of these charges, approximately $2 million, $2 million, $1 million and $1 million, respectively, were recorded in the Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods segments' Operating Income (Loss). These charges were recorded in Other Charges in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income. As of December 29, 2007, approximately $2 million of employee termination benefits had been paid. No material adjustments to the accrual are anticipated.
 
NOTE 4: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
We purchase certain commodities, such as grains, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. As part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce our exposure to various market risks related to these purchases. Contract terms of a financial instrument qualifying as a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item, providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. Contracts designated and highly effective at meeting risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. If a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be offset either against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. Instruments we hold as part of our risk management activities that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are marked to fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported currently in earnings. Changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories or supplies are recorded in cost of sales. Changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. We generally do not hedge anticipated transactions beyond 12 months.
 
We had derivative related balances of $44 million and $16 million recorded in other current assets at December 29, 2007, and September 29, 2007, respectively, and $20 million and $48 million in other current liabilities at December 29, 2007, and September 29, 2007, respectively.
 
Cash flow hedges:
We use derivatives to moderate the financial and commodity market risks of our business operations. Derivative products, such as futures and options, are designated to be a hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows related to commodities procurement.
 
The effective portion of the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Shareholders' Equity and recognized into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings (for grain commodity hedges, when the chickens that consumed the hedged grain are sold). The remaining cumulative gain or loss on the derivative instrument in excess of the cumulative change in the present value of the future cash flows of the hedged item, if any, is recognized in earnings during the period of change. Ineffectiveness related to our cash flow hedges was not significant during the three months ended December 29, 2007, and December 30, 2006.
 
Derivative products related to grain procurement that meet the criteria for hedge accounting and are so designated, are considered cash flow hedges, as they hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows related to commodities procurement. We do not purchase derivative products related to grain procurement in excess of our physical grain consumption requirements. There were $2 million of net gains recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 29, 2007, related to cash flow
 
6
 
hedges. These gains will be recognized within the next 12 months. Of these gains, the portion resulting from our open hedge positions was a net gain of $3 million as of December 29, 2007. We generally do not hedge cash flows related to commodities beyond 12 months.
 
Fair value hedges:
We designate certain futures contracts as fair value hedges of firm commitments to purchase market hogs for slaughter and natural gas for the operation of our plants. From time to time, we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge changes in the fair value of receivables and purchase commitments arising from changes in the exchange rates of foreign currencies; however, the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts was not significant as of December 29, 2007, and September 29, 2007. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk (including gains or losses on firm commitments), are recorded in current period earnings. Ineffectiveness results when the change in the fair value of the hedge instrument differs from the change in fair value of the hedged item. Ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges was not significant during the three months ended December 29, 2007, and December 30, 2006.
 
Undesignated positions:
We hold positions as part of our risk management activities, primarily futures and options for grains, livestock and natural gas, for which we do not apply hedge accounting, but instead mark these positions to fair value through earnings at each reporting date. We generally do not enter into undesignated positions beyond 18 months. We recognized pretax net gains of approximately $31 million and $41 million in cost of sales for the three months ended December 29, 2007, and December 30, 2006, respectively, related to grain positions for which we did not apply hedge accounting.
 
We enter into certain forward sales of boxed beef and boxed pork and forward purchases of cattle at fixed prices. The fixed price sales contracts lock in the proceeds from a sale in the future and the fixed cattle purchases lock in the cost. However, the cost of the livestock and the related boxed beef and pork market prices at the time of the sale or purchase could vary from this fixed price. As fixed forward sales of boxed beef and pork and forward purchases of cattle are entered into, to mitigate a portion of this risk we also enter into the appropriate number of livestock futures positions. Changes in market value of the open livestock futures positions are marked to market and reported in earnings at each reporting date, even though the economic impact of our fixed prices being above or below the market price is only realized at the time of sale or purchase. In connection with these livestock futures, we recorded realized and unrealized net gains of $25 million for the three months ended December 29, 2007, which included an unrealized pretax gain on open mark-to-market futures positions of approximately $4 million as of December 29, 2007. We recorded realized and unrealized net gains of $4 million for the three months ended December 30, 2006, related to livestock futures positions.
 
NOTE 5:
  
INVENTORIES
 
Processed products, livestock and supplies and other inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost includes purchased raw materials, live purchase costs, growout costs (primarily feed, contract grower pay and catch and haul costs), labor and manufacturing and production overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. Total inventory consists of the following (in millions):
 
 
 
7
 
NOTE 6:
  
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
The major categories of property, plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation, at cost, are as follows (in millions):
 
 
NOTE 7:
  
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
Other current liabilities are as follows (in millions):
 
 
NOTE 8:
  
COMMITMENTS
 
We guarantee debt of outside third parties, which involve a lease and grower loans, all of which are substantially collateralized by the underlying assets. Terms of the underlying debt cover periods up to nine years, and the maximum potential amount of future payments as of December 29, 2007, was $71 million. We also maintain operating leases for various types of equipment, some of which contain residual value guarantees for the market value of the underlying leased assets at the end of the term of the lease. The terms of the lease maturities cover periods up to seven years. The maximum potential amount of the residual value guarantees is $55 million, of which $22 million would be recoverable through various recourse provisions and an undeterminable recoverable amount based on the fair market value of the underlying leased assets. The likelihood of material payments under these guarantees is not considered probable. At December 29, 2007, and September 29, 2007, no material liabilities for guarantees were recorded.
 
8
 
NOTE 9:
  
LONG-TERM DEBT
 
The major components of long-term debt are as follows (in millions):
 
 
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility totaling $1.0 billion that supports short-term funding needs and letters of credit. The facility expires in September 2010. At December 29, 2007, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $241 million, none of which were drawn upon, issued primarily in support of workers' compensation insurance programs and derivative activities. The amount available under the unsecured revolving credit facility at December 29, 2007, was $759 million.
 
We have a receivables purchase agreement with three co-purchasers to sell up to $750 million of trade receivables, consisting of $375 million expiring in August 2008 and $375 million expiring in August 2010. The receivables purchase agreement has been accounted for as a borrowing and has an interest rate based on commercial paper issued by the co-purchasers. Under this agreement, substantially all of our accounts receivable are sold to a special purpose entity, Tyson Receivables Corporation (TRC), which is a wholly-owned consolidated subsidiary of the Company. TRC has its own creditors entitled to be satisfied out of all of the assets of TRC prior to any value becoming available to the Company as TRC's equity holder. At December 29, 2007, there was $73.5 million outstanding under the receivables purchase agreement expiring in August 2008 and $73.5 million under the agreement expiring in August 2010.
 
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, the most restrictive of which contain a maximum allowed leverage ratio and a minimum required interest coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 29, 2007.
 
Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has fully and unconditionally guaranteed $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes due April 1, 2016. The following condensed consolidating financial information is provided for the Company, as issuer, and for TFM, as guarantor, as an alternative to providing separate financial statements for the guarantor.
 
The following financial information presents condensed consolidating financial statements, which include Tyson Foods, Inc. (TFI Parent); Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc. (TFM Parent); the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis; the elimination entries necessary to consolidate the TFI Parent, TFM Parent and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries; and Tyson Foods, Inc. on a consolidated basis.
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
NOTE 10:
  
CONTINGENCIES
 
Listed below are certain claims made against the Company and our subsidiaries. In our opinion, we have made appropriate and adequate reserves, accruals and disclosures where necessary, and believe the probability of a material loss beyond the amounts accrued to be remote; however, the ultimate liability for these matters is uncertain, and if accruals and reserves are not adequate, an adverse outcome could have a material effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations. We believe we have substantial defenses to the claims made and intend to vigorously defend these cases.
 
In 2000, the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) conducted an industry-wide investigation of poultry producers, including us, to ascertain compliance with various wage and hour issues. As part of this investigation, the DOL inspected 14 of our processing facilities. On May 9, 2002, the DOL filed a civil complaint styled
Elaine L. Chao, Secretary of Labor, United States Department of Labor v. Tyson Foods, Inc
. against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. The plaintiffs allege in the complaint that we violated the overtime provisions of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act at our chicken-processing facility in Blountsville, Alabama. The complaint does not contain a definite statement of what acts constituted alleged violations of the statute, although the Secretary of Labor indicated in discovery the case seeks to require us to compensate all hourly chicken processing workers for pre- and post-shift clothes changing, washing and related activities and for one of two unpaid 30-minute meal periods. The Secretary of Labor seeks unspecified back wages for all employees at the Blountsville facility for a period of two years prior to the date of the filing of the complaint, and an additional amount in unspecified liquidated damages and an injunction against future violations at that facility and all other chicken processing facilities we operate. We filed a motion for partial summary judgment on July 23, 2007, which was granted in part on January 22, 2008. Although no date has been set, the trial of this matter is likely to occur within the next year.
 
Several private lawsuits are pending against us alleging that we failed to compensate poultry plant employees for all hours worked, including overtime compensation, in violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act. These lawsuits include
M.H. Fox, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (Fox)
, filed on June 22, 1999, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama, and
De Asencio v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (DeAsencio)
, filed on August 22, 2000, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Each of these matters involves similar allegations that employees should be paid for the time it takes to engage in pre- and post-shift activities such as changing into and out of protective and sanitary clothing, obtaining clothing and walking to and from the changing area, work areas and break areas. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits seek or have sought to act as class representatives on behalf of all current and former employees who were allegedly not paid for time worked and seek back wages, liquidated damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, and attorneys' fees. In
Fox
, the District Court denied class certification on November 16, 2006, and ordered the cases of the 10 named plaintiffs in the matter to proceed individually in the home jurisdictions of the named plaintiffs. Two of these cases were tried in November 2007 in Alabama with jury verdicts in favor of the plaintiffs. These cases are being appealed to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. In
DeAsencio
, plaintiffs appealed a jury verdict and final judgment entered in our favor on June 22, 2006, in the District Court. On September 7, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the jury verdict and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. We sought rehearing en banc, which was denied by the Court of Appeals on October 5, 2007. Our petition for writ of certiorari is due to be filed in the United States Supreme Court by February 4, 2008.
 
In addition to
Fox
and
DeAsencio
, additional private lawsuits were filed against us since the beginning of fiscal 2007 which allege we failed to compensate poultry plant employees for all hours worked, including overtime compensation, in violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act. These lawsuits are
Sheila Ackles, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(N. Dist. Alabama, October 23, 2006);
McCluster, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(M. Dist. Georgia, December 11, 2006);
Dobbins, et al. v. Tyson Chicken, Inc., et al.
(N. Dist. Alabama, December 21, 2006);
Buchanan, et al. v. Tyson Chicken, Inc
.,
et al.
and
Potter, et al. v. Tyson Chicken, Inc., et al.
(N. Dist. Alabama, December 22, 2006);
Jones, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., et al., Walton, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., et al.
and
Williams, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., et al.
(S. Dist. Mississippi, February 9, 2007);
Balch, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(E. Dist. Oklahoma, March 1, 2007);
Adams, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(W. Dist. Arkansas, March 2, 2007);
Atkins, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(M. Dist. Georgia, March 5, 2007); and
Laney, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
and
Williams, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc.
(M. Dist. Georgia, May 23, 2007). Similar to
Fox
and
DeAsencio
, each of these matters involves allegations employees should be paid for the time it takes to engage in pre- and post-shift activities such as changing into and out of protective and sanitary clothing, obtaining clothing and walking to and from the changing area, work areas and break areas. The plaintiffs in each of these lawsuits
 
14
 
seek or have sought to act as class representatives on behalf of all current and former employees who were allegedly not paid for time worked and seek back wages, liquidated damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, and attorneys' fees. On April 6, 2007, we filed a motion for transfer of the above named actions for coordinated pretrial proceedings before the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. The motion for transfer was granted on August 17, 2007, and the cases listed above were transferred to the federal district court in the Middle District of Georgia,
In re: Tyson Foods, Inc., Fair Labor Standards Act Litigation
("MDL Proceedings"). On January 2, 2008, the Judge in the MDL Proceedings issued a Joint Scheduling and Case Management Order. The Order grants Conditional Class Certification and calls for notice to be given to potential putative class members via a third party administrator no later than 90 days from the date of the Court's Order. The potential class members will have 60 days to "optin" to the class. The parties will then conduct discovery for a period of 240 days at no more than eight of our facilities. We presently intend to seek decertification of the class related to each of the eight facilities.
 
On November 21, 2002, 10 current and former hourly employees of a TFM case ready facility in Goodlettsville, Tennessee, filed a putative class action lawsuit styled
Emily D. Jordan, et al. v. IBP, inc. and Tyson Foods, Inc
. in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee against us claiming violations of the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act by failing to pay employees for all hours worked. The suit further alleges employees should be paid for the time it takes to collect, assemble and put on, take off and wash their health, safety and production gear at the beginning and end of their shifts and during their meal period. Finally, the suit alleges we deduct 30 minutes per day from employees' paychecks regardless of whether employees use a full 30-minute period for their meal. The plaintiffs seek a declaration that the defendants did not comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act, and an award for an unspecified amount of back pay compensation and benefits, unpaid entitlements, liquidated damages, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, attorney fees and costs. On November 17, 2003, the District Court conditionally certified a collective action based on clothes changing and washing activities and unpaid production work during meal periods, since the plant operations began in April 2001. Approximately 573 current and former employees have opted into the class. On August 20, 2007, both parties filed motions for summary judgment. Trial was again rescheduled and is now set to begin on September 16, 2008.
 
NOTE 11: PENSIONS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
Components of net periodic benefit cost for the pension and other postretirement benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income were as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
15
 
NOTE 12: INCOME TAXES
 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was 33.9%, as compared to 33.3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. The effective rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was impacted by such items as state income taxes, general business credits, certain nondeductible and nontaxable items and composition of income and loss between domestic and foreign operations. On December 20, 2006, the President signed into law the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 which provided for the retroactive extension to December 31, 2007, of certain general business credits that expired on December 31, 2005. As a result, in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we recognized $4 million of credits relating to fiscal 2006. On October 1, 2007, Mexico's new IETU tax law was enacted and took effect on January 1, 2008. The enactment of this new law did not have a material impact on the first quarter of fiscal 2008 income tax provision.
 
At the beginning of fiscal 2008, we adopted FIN 48. See Note 1, "Accounting Policies" for the impact of the adoption.
 
At the beginning of fiscal 2008, our unrecognized tax benefits were $210 million. During the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by approximately $18 million related to U.S. federal income tax settlements. There were no other material changes during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, that would affect our effective tax rate was $61 million at the beginning of fiscal 2008.
 
We classify interest and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. At the beginning of fiscal 2008, before tax benefits, we had $70 million of accrued interest and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits.
 
Within the next twelve months from the date of adoption, tax audit resolutions could potentially reduce unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $50 million, either because tax positions are sustained on audit or because we agree to their disallowance. Of this amount, a payment of tax of $13 million was made during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. As of the beginning of fiscal 2008, we are subject to income tax examinations for U.S. federal income taxes for fiscal years 1998 through 2006, and for foreign, state and local income taxes for fiscal years 2001 through 2006.
 
16
 
NOTE 13:
  
EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
 
17
 
Approximately ten million and nine million of our option shares were antidilutive at December 29, 2007, and December 30, 2006, respectively, and were not included in the dilutive earnings per share calculation.
 
We have two classes of capital stock, Class A Common Stock (Class A stock) and Class B Common Stock (Class B stock). Cash dividends cannot be paid to holders of Class B stock unless they are simultaneously paid to holders of Class A stock. The per share amount of cash dividends paid to holders of Class B stock cannot exceed 90% of the cash dividend paid to holders of Class A stock.
 
We allocate undistributed earnings based upon a 1 to 0.9 ratio per share to Class A stock and Class B stock, respectively. We allocate undistributed earnings based on this ratio due to historical dividend patterns, voting control of Class B stockholders and contractual limitations of dividends to Class B stock.
 
NOTE 14:
  
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
The components of comprehensive income are as follows (in millions):
 
 
The related tax effects allocated to the components of comprehensive income are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
18
 
NOTE 15:
  
SEGMENT REPORTING
 
We operate in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. We measure segment profit as operating income (loss).
 
Chicken:
 Chicken operations include breeding and raising chickens, as well as processing live chickens into fresh, frozen and value-added chicken products. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. The Chicken segment also includes sales from allied products and our chicken breeding stock subsidiary.
 
Beef:
 Beef operations include processing live fed cattle and fabrication of dressed beef carcasses into primal and sub-primal meat cuts and case-ready products. The Beef segment also derives value from allied products such as hides and variety meats for sale to further processors and others. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. Allied products are also marketed to manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and technical products.
 
Pork:
 Pork operations include processing live market hogs and fabricating pork carcasses into primal and sub-primal cuts and case-ready products. This segment also includes our live swine group and related allied product processing activities. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. We also sell allied products to pharmaceutical and technical products manufacturers, as well as live swine to pork processors.
 
Prepared Foods:
 Prepared foods operations manufacture and market frozen and refrigerated food products. Products include pepperoni, bacon, beef and pork pizza toppings, pizza crusts, flour and corn tortilla products, appetizers, prepared meals, ethnic foods, soups, sauces, side dishes, meat dishes and processed meats. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world.
 
19
 
Information on segments and a reconciliation to income from continuing operations before income taxes are as follows, (in millions):
 
 
The Beef segment had sales of $28 million and $25 million in the first quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, from transactions with other operating segments. The Pork segment had sales of $121 million and $126 million in the first quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, from transactions with other operating segments. The aforementioned sales from intersegment transactions, which were at market prices, were excluded from the segment sales in the above table.
 
NOTE 16:
  
SUBSEQUENT EVENT
 
On January 25, 2008, we announced the decision to restructure operations at our Emporia, Kansas, beef plant. Beef slaughter operations are expected to cease during the second quarter of fiscal 2008. However, the facility will still be used as a cold storage and distribution warehouse and will process ground beef. In addition, the Emporia facility will help enhance efficiencies at some of our other plants by taking over the processing of certain commodity and specialty cuts, which have typically slowed production at those locations. This restructuring will result in the elimination of approximately 1,500 of the 2,400 jobs currently provided at the Emporia plant.
 
20
 
Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Description of the Company
We are the world's largest meat protein company and the second-largest food production company in the
Fortune
500 with one of the most recognized brand names in the food industry. We produce, distribute and market chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and related allied products. Our operations are conducted in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. Some of the key factors that influence our business are customer demand for our products, the ability to maintain and grow relationships with customers and introduce new and innovative products to the marketplace, accessibility of international markets, market prices for our chicken, beef and pork products, the cost of live cattle and hogs, raw materials and grain and operating efficiencies of our facilities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
21
 
Outlook
 
 
Summary of Results  Continuing Operations
 
Sales
 
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
 
 
22
 
Selling, General and Administrative
 
 
 
Other Charges
 
 
 
Interest Expense
 
 
Other Expense (Income), net
 
 
 
Effective Tax Rate
 
 
 
23
 
Segment Results
 
We operate in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. The following table is a summary of sales and segment profit (loss), which we measure at the operating income (loss) level.
 
 
 
Chicken Segment Results
 
 
 
Beef Segment Results
 
 
 
24
 
Pork Segment Results
 
 
 
Prepared Foods Segment Results
 
 
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Our cash needs for operations growth and capital expenditures are expected to be met through cash flows provided by operating activities, as well as short-term borrowings.
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in working capital represents net income adjusted for non-cash income and expenses. Additionally, this amount represents net cash provided by operating activities prior to changes in assets and liabilities associated with operations. Changes in working capital do not include changes in property, plant and equipment associated with the Lakeside discontinued operation.
 
25
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
 
 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
Liquidity
 
 
 
Capitalization
 
Credit Ratings
S&P currently rates the 2016 Notes "BBB-," with a negative outlook. Moody's currently rates this debt "Ba1," with a negative outlook. The pretax impact to earnings of a downgrade would be approximately $4 million annually, per ratings level reduction, of which $2.5 million would be related to increased interest expense on the 2016 Notes.
 
Debt Covenants
Our debt covenants contain various covenants, the most restrictive of which contain a maximum allowed leverage ratio and a minimum required interest coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 29, 2007.
 
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
Contractual obligations at December 29, 2007, have not materially changed from the amounts disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2007. However, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
 
27
 
Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes," an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) at the beginning of fiscal 2008. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48, we have unrecognized tax benefits of $192 million at December 29, 2007. See Note 1, "Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for additional information related to the adoption of FIN 48.
 
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCMENTS
In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. We adopted FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal 2008. See Note 1, "Accounting Policies" for the impact of the adoption of FIN 48.
 
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. This standard also responds to investors' requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" (SFAS No. 159). This statement provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 at the beginning of fiscal 2009. We are in process of evaluating the potential impacts of SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements" (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements" to establish accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This statement clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity and should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements, rather than in the liability or mezzanine section between liabilities and equity. SFAS No. 160 also requires consolidated net income be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The impact of SFAS No. 160 will not have a material impact on our current Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 160 at the beginning of fiscal 2010.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141R, "Business Combinations" (SFAS No. 141R). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination: 1) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree; 2) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; and 3) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 141R for any business combinations entered into beginning in fiscal 2010.
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
We consider accounting policies related to: contingent liabilities; marketing and advertising costs; accrued self insurance; impairment of long-lived assets; impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; and income taxes to be critical policies. These policies are summarized in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2007.
 
28
 
While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units and fair value of other intangible assets, it is possible a material change could occur. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the reporting units, we may be required to perform the second step of our goodwill impairment analysis, which could result in a material impairment.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
Certain information in this report constitutes forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, current views and estimates of future economic circumstances, industry conditions in domestic and international markets, our performance and financial results, including, without limitation, debt-levels, return on invested capital, value-added product growth, capital expenditures, tax rates, access to foreign markets and dividend policy. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Among the factors that may cause actual results and experiences to differ from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are the following: (i) fluctuations in the cost and availability of inputs and raw materials, such as live cattle, live swine, feed grains (including corn and soybean meal) and energy; (ii) market conditions for finished products, including competition from other global and domestic food processors, supply and pricing of competing products and alternative proteins and demand for alternative proteins; (iii) successful rationalization of existing facilities and operating efficiencies of the facilities; (iv) risks associated with our commodity trading risk management activities; (v) access to foreign markets together with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, import/export restrictions and foreign politics; (vi) outbreak of a livestock disease (such as avian influenza (AI) or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE)), which could have an effect on livestock we own, the availability of livestock we purchase, consumer perception of certain protein products or our ability to access certain domestic and foreign markets; (vii) changes in availability and relative costs of labor and contract growers and our ability to maintain good relationships with employees, labor unions, contract growers and independent producers providing us livestock; (viii) issues related to food safety, including costs resulting from product recalls, regulatory compliance and any related claims or litigation; (ix) changes in consumer preference and diets and our ability to identify and react to consumer trends; (x) significant marketing plan changes by large customers or loss of one or more large customers; (xi) adverse results from litigation; (xii) risks associated with leverage, including cost increases due to rising interest rates or changes in debt ratings or outlook; (xiii) compliance with and changes to regulations and laws (both domestic and foreign), including changes in accounting standards, tax laws, environmental laws and occupational, health and safety laws; (xiv) our ability to make effective acquisitions or joint ventures and successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into existing operations; (xv) effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs; (xvi) the effect of, or changes in, general economic conditions; and (xvii) those factors listed under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" included in our September 29, 2007, Annual Report filed on Form 10-K.
 
29
 
EXHIBIT 12.1
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
 
 
 
 
 
30
 
 


Exhibit 99.3
 
PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 1. Financial Statements
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share and per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
 
2
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
 
3
 
TYSON FOODS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 1:
  
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared by Tyson Foods, Inc. (collectively, "the Company," "we," "us" or "our"). Certain information and accounting policies and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. Although we believe the disclosures contained herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, these consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2007. Preparation of consolidated condensed financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated condensed financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
We believe the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements contain all adjustments, including normal recurring accruals, necessary to present fairly our financial position as of March 29, 2008, the results of operations for the three and six months ended and cash flows for the six months ended March 29, 2008, and March 31, 2007. Results of operations and cash flows are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
 
On June 25, 2008, we executed a letter of intent with XL Foods Inc. to sell the beef processing, cattle feedyard and fertilizer assets of Lakeside Farm Industries Ltd (Lakeside), our wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary. The financial statements herein are reissued to reflect the reclassification of operations to discontiued operations. See Note 2: Discontinued Operation in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for further information.
 
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes," an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. We adopted FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal 2008. The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in a change to the opening Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets as follows: $32 million increase to Other Current Assets, $17 million decrease to Other Current Liabilities, $106 million increase to Other Liabilities, $40 million decrease to Deferred Income Taxes and $17 million decrease to Retained Earnings. Included in these changes we recognized a $120 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a $21 million increase in the related liability for interest and penalties for a total of $141 million.
 
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. This standard also responds to investors' requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" (SFAS No. 159). This statement provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 at the beginning of fiscal 2009 for financial assets and financial liabilities. In accordance with FASB Staff Position 157-2, we will begin measuring the fair value of nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities at the beginning of fiscal 2010. We are in process of evaluating the potential impacts of SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159.
 
4
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements" (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements" to establish accounting and reporting standards for a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This statement clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity and should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements, rather than in the liability or mezzanine section between liabilities and equity. SFAS No. 160 also requires consolidated net income be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The impact of SFAS No. 160 will not have a material impact on our current Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 160 at the beginning of fiscal 2010.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141R, "Business Combinations" (SFAS No. 141R). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination: 1) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree; 2) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; and 3) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 141R for any business combinations entered into beginning in fiscal 2010.
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133" (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 establishes enhanced disclosure requirements about: 1) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; 2) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under Statement 133 and its related interpretations; and 3) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 161 in the second quarter of fiscal 2009.
 
NOTE 2: DISCONTINUED OPERATION
 
On June 25, 2008, we executed a letter of intent with XL Foods Inc. to sell the beef processing, cattle feedyard and fertilizer assets of Lakeside for $106 million. Lakeside was part of our Beef segment. XL Foods will pay an additional amount for cattle inventory, fertilizer inventory and packaging assets, estimated to approximate $85 million. This transaction is denominated in Canadian Dollars, so conversion at the closing date to US Dollars could be different than noted above. We will retain the finished product inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable of the Lakeside operation as of the closing date.
 
The transaction remains subject to government approvals, receipt of commercially reasonable financing by XL Foods and execution of a definitive agreement between Tyson and XL Foods. We hope to complete the sale by the end of fiscal 2008 and are reporting the Lakeside results as a discontinued operation.
 
The following is a summary of Lakeside's operating results (in millions):
 
 
 
5
 
The carrying amounts of Lakeside's assets held for sale include the following (in millions):
 
 
NOTE 3: DISPOSITIONS AND OTHER CHARGES
 
On February 29, 2008, we announced discontinuation of an existing product line and closing of one of our three poultry plants in Wilkesboro, North Carolina. The Wilkesboro Cooked Products plant ceased operations in April 2008. The closure resulted in elimination of approximately 400 jobs. In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded charges of $13 million for estimated impairment charges. This amount is reflected in the Chicken segment's Operating Income (Loss) and included in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations in Other Charges. No material adjustments to the accrual are anticipated.
 
On January 25, 2008, we announced the decision to restructure operations at our Emporia, Kansas, beef plant. Beef slaughter operations ceased during the second quarter of fiscal 2008. However, the facility will still be used to process certain commodity, specialty cuts and ground beef, as well as a cold storage and distribution warehouse. This restructuring resulted in elimination of approximately 1,700 jobs at the Emporia plant. In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded charges of $10 million for estimated impairment charges and $7 million of other closing costs, consisting of $6 million for employee termination benefits and $1 million in other plant-closing related liabilities. These amounts were reflected in the Beef segment's Operating Income (Loss) and included in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations in Other Charges. As of March 29, 2008, $6 million of other closing costs had been paid. No material adjustments to the accrual are anticipated.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded an $18 million non-operating gain as the result of a private equity firm's purchase of a technology company in which we held a minority interest. This gain was recorded in Other Income in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, management approved plans for implementation of certain recommendations resulting from the previously announced FAST initiative, which was focused on process improvement and efficiency creation. As a result, in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded charges of $6 million related to employee termination benefits resulting from termination of approximately 200 employees. Of these charges, $2 million, $2 million, $1 million and $1 million, respectively, were recorded in the Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods segments' Operating Income (Loss) and included in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations in Other Charges. As of March 29, 2008, $3 million of employee termination benefits had been paid. No material adjustments to the accrual are anticipated.
 
NOTE 4: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
We purchase certain commodities, such as grains, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. As part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce our exposure to various market risks related to these purchases. Contract terms of a financial instrument qualifying as a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item, providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. Contracts designated and highly effective at meeting risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. If a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be offset either against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. Instruments we hold as part of our risk management activities that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are marked to fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported currently in earnings. Changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories or supplies are recorded in cost of sales. Changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. We generally do not hedge anticipated transactions beyond 12 months.
 
6
 
We had derivative related balances of $56 million and $16 million recorded in other current assets at March 29, 2008, and September 29, 2007, respectively, and $1 million and $48 million in other current liabilities at March 29, 2008, and September 29, 2007, respectively.
 
Cash flow hedges:
We use derivatives as a tool to help manage the financial and commodity market risks of our business operations. Derivative products, such as futures and options, are designated to be a hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows related to commodities procurement.
 
The effective portion of the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Shareholders' Equity and recognized into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings (for grain commodity hedges, when the chickens that consumed the hedged grain are sold). The remaining cumulative gain or loss on the derivative instrument in excess of the cumulative change in the present value of the future cash flows of the hedged item, if any, is recognized in earnings during the period of change. Ineffectiveness related to our cash flow hedges was not significant during the three and six months ended March 29, 2008, and March 31, 2007.
 
Derivative products related to grain procurement that meet the criteria for hedge accounting and are so designated, are considered cash flow hedges, as they hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows related to commodities procurement. We do not purchase derivative products related to grain procurement in excess of our physical grain consumption requirements. Related to grain hedges, there were $18 million of net gains recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income at March 29, 2008. These gains will be recognized within the next 12 months. Of these gains, the portion resulting from our open hedge positions was a net gain of $6 million as of March 29, 2008.
 
Fair value hedges:
We designate certain futures contracts as fair value hedges of firm commitments to purchase market hogs for slaughter and natural gas for the operation of our plants. From time to time, we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge changes in the fair value of receivables and purchase commitments arising from changes in the exchange rates of foreign currencies. The fair value of the foreign exchange contracts was not significant as of March 29, 2008, and September 29, 2007. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk (including gains or losses on firm commitments), are recorded in current period earnings. Ineffectiveness results when the change in the fair value of the hedge instrument differs from the change in fair value of the hedged item. Ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges was not significant during the three and six months ended March 29, 2008, and March 31, 2007.
 
Undesignated positions:
We hold positions as part of our risk management activities, primarily futures and options for grains, livestock and natural gas, for which we do not apply hedge accounting, but instead mark these positions to fair value through earnings at each reporting date. We generally do not enter into undesignated positions beyond 18 months. Related to grain positions for which we did not apply hedge accounting, we recognized pretax net gains of approximately $41 million and $72 million in cost of sales for the three and six months ended March 29, 2008, respectively, which included an unrealized pretax gain on open mark-to-market futures positions of approximately $25 million as of March 29, 2008. We recognized pretax net gains of $26 million and $67 million for the three and six months ended March 31, 2007, respectively.
 
We enter into certain forward sales of boxed beef and boxed pork and forward purchases of cattle at fixed prices. The fixed price sales contracts lock in the proceeds from a sale in the future and the fixed cattle purchases lock in the cost. However, the cost of the livestock and the related boxed beef and pork market prices at the time of the sale or purchase could vary from this fixed price. As we enter into fixed forward sales of boxed beef and pork and forward purchases of cattle, we also enter into the appropriate number of livestock futures positions to mitigate a portion of this risk. Changes in market value of the open livestock futures positions are marked to market and reported in earnings at each reporting date, even though the economic impact of our fixed prices being above or below the market price is only realized at the time of sale or purchase. In connection with these livestock futures, we recorded realized and unrealized net gains of $42 million and $67 million for the three and six months ended March 29, 2008, respectively, which included an unrealized pretax gain on open mark-to-market futures positions of approximately $16 million as of March 29, 2008. We recorded realized and unrealized net losses of $14 million and $10 million for the three and six months ended March 31, 2007, respectively.
 
7
 
NOTE 5:
  
INVENTORIES
 
Processed products, livestock and supplies and other are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost includes purchased raw materials, live purchases, growout (primarily feed, contract grower pay and catch and haul costs), labor and manufacturing and production overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. Total inventory consists of the following (in millions):
 
 
 
NOTE 6:
  
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
The major categories of property, plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation, at cost, are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
NOTE 7:
  
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
Other current liabilities are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
NOTE 8: COMMITMENTS
 
We guarantee debt of outside third parties, which involve a lease and grower loans, all of which are substantially collateralized by the underlying assets. Terms of the underlying debt cover periods up to nine years, and the maximum potential amount of future payments as of March 29, 2008, was $69 million. We also maintain operating leases for various types of equipment, some of which contain residual value guarantees for the market value of the underlying leased assets at the end of the term of the lease. The terms of the lease maturities cover periods up to seven years. The maximum potential amount of the residual value guarantees is $54 million, of which $21 million would be recoverable through various recourse provisions and an undeterminable recoverable
 
8
 
amount based on the fair market value of the underlying leased assets. The likelihood of material payments under these guarantees is not considered probable. At March 29, 2008, and September 29, 2007, no material liabilities for guarantees were recorded.
 
NOTE 9:
  
LONG-TERM DEBT
 
The major components of long-term debt are as follows (in millions):
 
 
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility totaling $1.0 billion that supports short-term funding needs and letters of credit. The facility expires in September 2010. At March 29, 2008, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $275 million, none of which were drawn upon, issued primarily in support of workers' compensation insurance programs and derivative activities. The amount available as of March 29, 2008, was $725 million.
 
We have a receivables purchase agreement with three co-purchasers to sell up to $750 million of trade receivables consisting of $375 million expiring in August 2008 and $375 million expiring in August 2010. The receivables purchase agreement has been accounted for as a borrowing and has an interest rate based on commercial paper issued by the co-purchasers. Under this agreement, substantially all of our accounts receivable are sold to a special purpose entity, Tyson Receivables Corporation (TRC), which is a wholly-owned consolidated subsidiary of the Company. TRC has its own creditors entitled to be satisfied out of all of the assets of TRC prior to any value becoming available to the Company as TRC's equity holder. At March 29, 2008, there was $204 million outstanding under the receivables purchase agreement expiring in August 2008 and $204 million under the agreement expiring in August 2010.
 
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, the most restrictive of which contain a maximum allowed leverage ratio and a minimum required interest coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at March 29, 2008.
 
Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has fully and unconditionally guaranteed $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes due April 1, 2016. The following condensed consolidating financial information is provided for the Company, as issuer, and for TFM, as guarantor, as an alternative to providing separate financial statements for the guarantor.
 
The following financial information presents condensed consolidating financial statements, which include Tyson Foods, Inc. (TFI Parent); Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc. (TFM Parent); the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis; the elimination entries necessary to consolidate the TFI Parent, TFM Parent and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries; and Tyson Foods, Inc. on a consolidated basis.
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
NOTE 10:
  
CONTINGENCIES
 
Listed below are certain claims made against the Company and our subsidiaries. In our opinion, we have made appropriate and adequate reserves, accruals and disclosures where necessary, and believe the probability of a material loss beyond the amounts accrued to be remote; however, the ultimate liability for these matters is uncertain, and if accruals and reserves are not adequate, an adverse outcome could have a material effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations. We believe we have substantial defenses to the claims made and intend to vigorously defend these cases.
 
In 2000, the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) conducted an industry-wide investigation of poultry producers, including us, to ascertain compliance with various wage and hour issues. As part of this investigation, the DOL inspected 14 of our processing facilities. On May 9, 2002, the DOL filed a civil complaint styled Elaine L. Chao, Secretary of Labor, United States Department of Labor v. Tyson Foods, Inc. against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. The plaintiffs allege in the complaint that we violated the overtime provisions of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act at our chicken-processing facility in Blountsville, Alabama. The complaint does not contain a definite statement of what acts constituted alleged violations of the statute, although the Secretary of Labor indicated in discovery the case seeks to require us to compensate all hourly chicken processing workers for pre- and post-shift clothes changing, washing and related activities and for one of two unpaid 30-minute meal periods. The Secretary of Labor seeks unspecified back wages for all employees at the Blountsville facility for a period of two years prior to the date of the filing of the complaint, and an additional amount in unspecified liquidated damages and an injunction against future violations at that facility and all other chicken processing facilities we operate. The District Court granted the Company's motion for partial summary judgment in part, ruling that the second meal period is appropriately characterized as non-compensable, and reserving the remaining issues for trial. The trial is set for November 3, 2008.
 
Several private lawsuits are pending against us alleging that we failed to compensate poultry plant employees for all hours worked, including overtime compensation, in violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act. These lawsuits include M.H. Fox, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (Fox), filed on June 22, 1999, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama, and De Asencio v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (DeAsencio), filed on August 22, 2000, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Each of these matters involves similar allegations that employees should be paid for the time it takes to engage in pre- and post-shift activities such as changing into and out of protective and sanitary clothing, obtaining clothing and walking to and from the changing area, work areas and break areas. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits seek or have sought to act as class representatives on behalf of all current and former employees who were allegedly not paid for time worked and seek back wages, liquidated damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, and attorneys' fees. In Fox, the District Court denied class certification on November 16, 2006, and ordered the cases of the 10 named plaintiffs in the matter to proceed individually in the home jurisdictions of the named plaintiffs. Two of these cases (Brothers and Hatchett) were tried in November 2007 in Alabama with jury verdicts in favor of the plaintiffs. These cases are being appealed to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The District Court recently entered judgment in the final of these cases (Fox) after the Company made an offer of judgment to Fox, thereby avoiding trial. However, the District Court must now determine the amount of attorneys' fees and costs to be awarded to Mr. Fox. In DeAsencio, plaintiffs appealed a jury verdict and final judgment entered in our favor on June 22, 2006, in the District Court. On September 7, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the jury verdict and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. We sought rehearing en banc, which was denied by the Court of Appeals on October 5, 2007. Our petition for writ of certiorari is currently pending before the United States Supreme Court.
 
In addition to Fox and DeAsencio, additional private lawsuits were filed against us since the beginning of fiscal 2007 which allege we failed to compensate poultry plant employees for all hours worked, including overtime compensation, in violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act. These lawsuits are Sheila Ackles, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (N. Dist. Alabama, October 23, 2006); McCluster, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (M. Dist. Georgia, December 11, 2006); Dobbins, et al. v. Tyson Chicken, Inc., et al. (N. Dist. Alabama, December 21, 2006); Buchanan, et al. v. Tyson Chicken, Inc., et al. and Potter, et al. v. Tyson Chicken, Inc., et al. (N. Dist. Alabama, December 22, 2006); Jones, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., et al., Walton, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., et al. and Williams, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., et al. (S. Dist. Mississippi, February 9, 2007); Balch, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (E. Dist. Oklahoma, March 1, 2007); Adams, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (W. Dist. Arkansas, March 2, 2007); Atkins, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (M. Dist. Georgia, March 5, 2007); and Laney, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. and Williams, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (M. Dist. Georgia, May 23, 2007). Similar to Fox and DeAsencio, each of these matters involves allegations employees should be paid for the time it takes to engage in pre- and post-shift activities such as changing into and out of protective and sanitary clothing,
 
15
 
obtaining clothing and walking to and from the changing area, work areas and break areas. The plaintiffs in each of these lawsuits seek or have sought to act as class representatives on behalf of all current and former employees who were allegedly not paid for time worked and seek back wages, liquidated damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, and attorneys' fees. On April 6, 2007, we filed a motion for transfer of the above named actions for coordinated pretrial proceedings before the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. The motion for transfer was granted on August 17, 2007. The cases listed above and five other cases subsequently filed involving the same allegations, including Armstrong, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (W. Dist. Tennessee, January 30, 2008); Maldonado, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (E. Dist. Tennessee, January 31, 2008); White, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (E. Dist. Texas, February 1, 2008); Meyer, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (W. Dist. Missouri, February 2, 2008); and Leak, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (W. Dist. North Carolina, February 6, 2008), were transferred to the U.S. District Court in the Middle District of Georgia, In re: Tyson Foods, Inc., Fair Labor Standards Act Litigation ("MDL Proceedings"). On January 2, 2008, the Judge in the MDL Proceedings issued a Joint Scheduling and Case Management Order. The Order grants Conditional Class Certification and calls for notice to be given to potential putative class members via a third party administrator. The potential class members will have 60 days from the date of the notice, April 18, 2008, to "optin" to the class. The parties will then conduct discovery for a period of 240 days at no more than eight of our facilities. We presently intend to seek decertification of the class related to each of the eight facilities.
 
On November 21, 2002, 10 current and former hourly employees of a TFM case ready facility in Goodlettsville, Tennessee, filed a putative class action lawsuit styled Emily D. Jordan, et al. v. IBP, inc. and Tyson Foods, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee against us claiming violations of the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act by failing to pay employees for all hours worked. The suit further alleges employees should be paid for the time it takes to collect, assemble and put on, take off and wash their health, safety and production gear at the beginning and end of their shifts and during their meal period. Finally, the suit alleges we deduct 30 minutes per day from employees' paychecks regardless of whether employees use a full 30-minute period for their meal. The plaintiffs seek a declaration that the defendants did not comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act, and an award for an unspecified amount of back pay compensation and benefits, unpaid entitlements, liquidated damages, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, attorney fees and costs. On November 17, 2003, the District Court conditionally certified a collective action based on clothes changing and washing activities and unpaid production work during meal periods, since the plant operations began in April 2001. Approximately 573 current and former employees have opted into the class. On August 20, 2007, both parties filed motions for summary judgment. The court granted in part and denied in part the parties' motions for partial summary judgment on March 13, 2008. Issues remaining for trial include whether the de minimis defense applies to compensable pre- and post-shift clothes-changing and washing activities occurring between the donning and doffing of the frock, and whether the meal period is compensable. A jury trial is set to begin on September 16, 2008.
 
NOTE 11: PENSIONS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
Components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and other postretirement benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations were as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
NOTE 12: INCOME TAXES
 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 35.9% and 36.9% for the second quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 34.1% and 35.1% for the six months of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective rate for the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2008 was impacted by such items as state income taxes, Domestic Production Deduction, general business credits, certain nondeductible items and composition of income and loss between domestic and foreign operations. On December 20, 2006, the President signed into law the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 which provided for the retroactive extension to December 31, 2007, of certain general business credits that expired on December 31, 2005. As a result, in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we recognized $4 million of credits relating to fiscal 2006. On October 1, 2007, Mexico's new IETU tax law was enacted and took effect on January 1, 2008. The enactment of this new law did not have a material impact on the income tax provision for the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2008.
 
At the beginning of fiscal 2008, we adopted FIN 48. See Note 1, "Accounting Policies" for the impact of the adoption.
 
At the beginning of fiscal 2008, our unrecognized tax benefits were $210 million. During the six months of fiscal 2008, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $20 million, which was primarily related to U.S. federal income tax settlements. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, that would affect our effective tax rate was $61 million.
 
We classify interest and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. At the beginning of fiscal 2008, before tax benefits, we had $70 million of accrued interest and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits.
 
Within the next twelve months from the date of adoption, tax audit resolutions could potentially reduce unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $50 million, either because tax positions are sustained on audit or because we agree to their disallowance. Of this amount, a payment of tax of $13 million was made during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. There were no other material changes during the six months ended fiscal 2008. As of the beginning of fiscal 2008, we are subject to income tax examinations for U.S. federal income taxes for fiscal years 1998 through 2006, and for foreign, state and local income taxes for fiscal years 2001 through 2006.
 
17
 
NOTE 13:
  
EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE
 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
Approximately 12 million and 11 million of our option shares were antidilutive for the three and six months ended March 29, 2008, respectively, and 8 million were antidilutive for both the three and six months ended March 31, 2007. These shares were not included in the dilutive earnings per share calculation.
 
We have two classes of capital stock, Class A Common Stock (Class A stock) and Class B Common Stock (Class B stock). Cash dividends cannot be paid to holders of Class B stock unless they are simultaneously paid to holders of Class A stock. The per share amount of cash dividends paid to holders of Class B stock cannot exceed 90% of the cash dividends paid to holders of Class A stock.
 
18
 
We allocate undistributed earnings based upon a 1 to 0.9 ratio per share to Class A stock and Class B stock, respectively. We allocate undistributed earnings based on this ratio due to historical dividend patterns, voting control of Class B stockholders and contractual limitations of dividends to Class B stock.
 
NOTE 14:
 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
 
The components of comprehensive income (loss) are as follows (in millions):
 
 
The related tax effects allocated to the components of comprehensive income are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
19
 
NOTE 15:
  
SEGMENT REPORTING
 
We operate in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. We measure segment profit as operating income (loss).
 
Chicken:
 Chicken operations include breeding and raising chickens, as well as processing live chickens into fresh, frozen and value-added chicken products. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. The Chicken segment also includes sales from allied products and our chicken breeding stock subsidiary.
 
Beef:
 Beef operations include processing live fed cattle and fabrication of dressed beef carcasses into primal and sub-primal meat cuts and case-ready products. The Beef segment also derives value from allied products such as hides and variety meats for sale to further processors and others. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. Allied products are also marketed to manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and technical products.
 
Pork:
 Pork operations include processing live market hogs and fabricating pork carcasses into primal and sub-primal cuts and case-ready products. This segment also includes our live swine group and related allied product processing activities. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. We also sell allied products to pharmaceutical and technical products manufacturers, as well as live swine to pork processors.
 
Prepared Foods:
 Prepared foods operations manufacture and market frozen and refrigerated food products. Products include pepperoni, bacon, beef and pork pizza toppings, pizza crusts, flour and corn tortilla products, appetizers, prepared meals, ethnic foods, soups, sauces, side dishes, meat dishes and processed meats. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world.
 
20
 
Information on segments and a reconciliation to income from continuing operations before income taxes are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
The Beef segment had sales of $33 million and $24 million in the second quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, and sales of $61 million and $49 million in the six months of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, from transactions with other operating segments of the Company. The Pork segment had sales of $123 million and $129 million in the second quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, and sales of $244 million and $255 million in the six months of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, from transactions with other operating segments of the Company. The aforementioned sales from intersegment transactions, which were at market prices, were excluded from the segment sales in the above table.
 
21
 
Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Description of the Company
We are the world's largest meat protein company and the second-largest food production company in the
Fortune
500 with one of the most recognized brand names in the food industry. We produce, distribute and market chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and related allied products. Our operations are conducted in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. Some of the key factors that influence our business are customer demand for our products, the ability to maintain and grow relationships with customers and introduce new and innovative products to the marketplace, accessibility of international markets, market prices for our products, the cost of live cattle and hogs, raw materials and grain and operating efficiencies of our facilities.
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
 
Outlook
 
 
 
23
 
Summary of Results  Continuing Operations
 
Sales
 
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
 
 
24
 
Selling, General and Administrative
 
 
 
Other Charges
 
 
 
Interest Expense
 
 
Other Income, net
 
 
 
25
 
Effective Tax Rate
 
 
 
Segment Results
 
We operate in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. The following table is a summary of sales and segment profit (loss), which we measure at the operating income (loss) level.
 
 
 
 
26
 
Chicken Segment Results
 
 
 
Beef Segment Results
 
 
 
 
27
 
Pork Segment Results
 
 
 
 
Prepared Foods Segment Results
 
 
 
 
28
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Our cash needs for operations growth and capital expenditures are expected to be met through cash flows provided by operating activities, as well as short-term borrowings.
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in net working capital represents net income adjusted for non-cash income and expenses. Changes in working capital do not include changes in property, plant and equipment associated with the Lakeside discontinued operation.
 
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
 
 
 
29
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
 
 
Liquidity
 
 
Capitalization
 
Credit Ratings
S&P currently rates the 2016 Notes "BBB-" and Moody's currently rates this debt "Ba1." The pretax impact to earnings of a downgrade would be approximately $2.5 million annually, per ratings level reduction per agency, related to increased interest expense on the 2016 Notes.
 
30
 
S&P's corporate credit rating for the Company is currently "BBB-," with a negative rating outlook. Moody's corporate family rating for the Company is currently "Ba1," with a negative rating outlook. The pretax impact to earnings of a downgrade would be approximately $1.5 million annually, per ratings level reduction per agency, excluding any increased interest expense related to the 2016 Notes.
 
Debt Covenants
Our debt covenants contain various covenants, the most restrictive of which contain a maximum allowed leverage ratio and a minimum required interest coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at March 29, 2008.
 
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
Contractual obligations at March 29, 2008, have not materially changed from the amounts disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2007. However, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes," an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) at the beginning of fiscal 2008. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48, we have unrecognized tax benefits of $190 million at March 29, 2008. See Note 1, "Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for additional information related to the adoption of FIN 48.
 
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCMENTS
In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. We adopted FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal 2008. See Note 1, "Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for additional information related to the adoption of FIN 48.
 
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. This standard also responds to investors' requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" (SFAS No. 159). This statement provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 at the beginning of fiscal 2009 for financial assets and financial liabilities. In accordance with FASB Staff Position 157-2, we will begin measuring the fair value of nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities at the beginning of fiscal 2010. We are in process of evaluating the potential impacts of SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements" (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements" to establish accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This statement clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity and should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements, rather than in the liability or mezzanine section between liabilities and equity. SFAS No. 160 also requires consolidated net income be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The impact of SFAS No. 160 will not have a material impact on our current Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 160 at the beginning of fiscal 2010.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141R, "Business Combinations" (SFAS No. 141R). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination: 1) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in
 
31
 
the acquiree; 2) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; and 3) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 141R for any business combinations entered into beginning in fiscal 2010.
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133" (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 establishes enhanced disclosure requirements about: 1) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; 2) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under Statement 133 and its related interpretations; and 3) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008; therefore, we expect to adopt SFAS No. 161 in the second quarter of fiscal 2009.
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
We consider accounting policies related to: contingent liabilities; marketing and advertising costs; accrued self insurance; impairment of long-lived assets; impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; and income taxes to be critical policies. These policies are summarized in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2007.
 
While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units and fair value of other intangible assets, it is possible a material change could occur. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the reporting units, we may be required to perform the second step of our goodwill impairment analysis, which could result in a material impairment.
 
32
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
Certain information in this report constitutes forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, current views and estimates of future economic circumstances, industry conditions in domestic and international markets, our performance and financial results, including, without limitation, debt-levels, return on invested capital, value-added product growth, capital expenditures, tax rates, access to foreign markets and dividend policy. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Among the factors that may cause actual results and experiences to differ from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are the following: (i) fluctuations in the cost and availability of inputs and raw materials, such as live cattle, live swine, feed grains (including corn and soybean meal) and energy; (ii) market conditions for finished products, including competition from other global and domestic food processors, supply and pricing of competing products and alternative proteins and demand for alternative proteins; (iii) successful rationalization of existing facilities and operating efficiencies of the facilities; (iv) risks associated with our commodity trading risk management activities; (v) access to foreign markets together with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, import/export restrictions and foreign politics; (vi) outbreak of a livestock disease (such as avian influenza (AI) or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE)), which could have an effect on livestock we own, the availability of livestock we purchase, consumer perception of certain protein products or our ability to access certain domestic and foreign markets; (vii) changes in availability and relative costs of labor and contract growers and our ability to maintain good relationships with employees, labor unions, contract growers and independent producers providing us livestock; (viii) issues related to food safety, including costs resulting from product recalls, regulatory compliance and any related claims or litigation; (ix) changes in consumer preference and diets and our ability to identify and react to consumer trends; (x) significant marketing plan changes by large customers or loss of one or more large customers; (xi) adverse results from litigation; (xii) risks associated with leverage, including cost increases due to rising interest rates or changes in debt ratings or outlook; (xiii) compliance with and changes to regulations and laws (both domestic and foreign), including changes in accounting standards, tax laws, environmental laws and occupational, health and safety laws; (xiv) our ability to make effective acquisitions or joint ventures and successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into existing operations; (xv) effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs; (xvi) the effect of, or changes in, general economic conditions; and (xvii) those factors listed under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" included in our September 29, 2007, Annual Report filed on Form 10-K.
 
33
 
EXHIBIT 12.1
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
 
 
 
 
34
 
 


 
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 333-115378; 333-115379; 333-115380; 333-70646; 333-22883; 333-02135 and 333-22881) pertaining to certain employee benefit plans of Tyson Foods, Inc., and the Registration Statements (Form S-3 No. 333-53171 and Form S-3 No. 333-132434) of Tyson Foods, Inc. and related Prospectuses of our reports dated November 19, 2007 (except for those matters described in Note 1 "Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" as it relates to Discontinued Operations and Note 3 "Discontinued Operations," as to which the date is September 3, 2008), with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of the Company for the year ended September 29, 2007, included in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 4, 2008, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
Rogers, Arkansas
September 3, 2008
 


