FILE:TSN/TSN-8K-20110509073744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
[  ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 9, 2011, Tyson Foods, Inc. issued a press release announcing its unaudited results of operations for its second quarter and six months ended April 2, 2011. The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Limitation on Incorporation by Reference
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including exhibits, is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 9.01 and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
2
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

9
Media Contact:  Gary Mickelson, 479-290-6111
Investor Contact:  Ruth Ann Wisener, 479-290-4235
Tyson Foods, Inc. (NYSE: TSN), today reported the following results:
Springdale, Arkansas  May 9, 2011 
Overall, it was a solid quarter, and Im pleased with the results, said Donnie Smith, Tyson Foods president and chief operating officer. We produced record sales for the second quarter on substantially higher sales prices in addition to increased volume. All segments except Chicken were within or above their normalized operating margin ranges. While Chicken was well below its normalized range, it was profitable, and we believe it will continue to be profitable in the third and fourth quarters. Our Beef segment remains solid, and our Pork segment continues to produce outstanding returns. Prepared Foods is moving in the right direction, and weve got more work to do in this segment.
Most exciting to me is that we still have a significant amount of opportunity to increase profitability throughout Tyson Foods. We will continue to face challenging and volatile market conditions in fiscal 2011, but we maintain our belief that earnings should be comparable to 2010 due to our on-going operational improvements and focus on execution, Smith said.
 
 
 
Segment Performance Review (in millions)
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
 
2
 
Fiscal 2011 Outlook continued
Segment Performance Review
Chicken Segment Results
 
3
 
Beef Segment Results
 
4
 
Pork Segment Results
Prepared Foods Segment Results
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
8
 
Tyson Foods, Inc., founded in 1935 with headquarters in Springdale, Arkansas, is one of the worlds largest processors and marketers of chicken, beef and pork, the second-largest food production company in the and a member of the S&P 500. The company produces a wide variety of protein-based and prepared food products and is the recognized market leader in the retail and foodservice markets it serves. Tyson provides products and service to customers throughout the United States and more than 100 countries. The company has approximately 115,000 Team Members employed at more than 400 facilities and offices in the United States and around the world. Through its Core Values, Code of Conduct and Team Member Bill of Rights, Tyson strives to operate with integrity and trust and is committed to creating value for its shareholders, customers and Team Members. The company also strives to be faith-friendly, provide a safe work environment and serve as stewards of the animals, land and environment entrusted to it.
Fortune 500
A conference call to discuss the Companys financial results will be held at 9 a.m. Eastern Monday, May 9, 2011. To listen live via telephone, call 800-593-8948. The call leaders name and a pass code will be required to join the call. The leaders name is Ruth Ann Wisener and the pass code is Tyson Foods. International callers dial 517-308-9007. A telephone replay will be available at 800-925-4265. The live webcast, as well as the replay, will be available on the Internet at http://ir.tyson.com. Financial information, such as this news release, as well as other supplemental data, including Company distribution channel information, can be accessed from the Companys web site at http://ir.tyson.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain information contained in the press release may constitute forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to expected earnings and results. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties which could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results and expectations, expressed in such forward-looking statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Among the factors that may cause actual results and experiences to differ from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are the following: (i) the effect of, or changes in, general economic conditions; (ii) fluctuations in the cost and availability of inputs and raw materials, such as live cattle, live swine, feed grains (including corn and soybean meal) and energy; (iii) market conditions for finished products, including competition from other global and domestic food processors, supply and pricing of competing products and alternative proteins and demand for alternative proteins; (iv) successful rationalization of existing facilities and operating efficiencies of the facilities; (v) risks associated with our commodity purchasing activities; (vi) access to foreign markets together with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, import/export restrictions and foreign politics; (vii) outbreak of a livestock disease (such as avian influenza (AI) or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE)), which could have an adverse effect on livestock we own, the availability of livestock we purchase, consumer perception of certain protein products or our ability to access certain domestic and foreign markets; (viii) changes in availability and relative costs of labor and contract growers and our ability to maintain good relationships with employees, labor unions, contract growers and independent producers providing us livestock; (ix) issues related to food safety, including costs resulting from product recalls, regulatory compliance and any related claims or litigation; (x) changes in consumer preference and diets and our ability to identify and react to consumer trends; (xi) significant marketing plan changes by large customers or loss of one or more large customers; (xii) adverse results from litigation; (xiii) risks associated with leverage, including cost increases due to rising interest rates or changes in debt ratings or outlook; (xiv) compliance with and changes to regulations and laws (both domestic and foreign), including changes in accounting standards, tax laws, environmental laws, agricultural laws and occupational, health and safety laws; (xv) our ability to make effective acquisitions or joint ventures and successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into existing operations; (xvi) effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs; and (xvii) those factors listed under Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our October 2, 2010, Annual Report filed on Form 10-K.


