FILE:TSN/TSN-8K-20120507074018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported):
May 7, 2012
Tyson Foods, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware
(State of incorporation or organization)
001-14704
(Commission File Number)
71-0225165
(IRS Employer Identification No.)
2200 Don Tyson Parkway, Springdale, AR 72762-6999
(479) 290-4000
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of
Registrants principal executive offices)
Not applicable
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if applicable)
___________________________________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On
May 7, 2012
, Tyson Foods, Inc. issued a press release announcing its unaudited results of operations for its
second quarter and six months ended
March 31, 2012
. The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Limitation on Incorporation by Reference
In accordance with general instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including exhibits, is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 9.01 and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3

Media Contact: Gary Mickelson, 479-290-6111
Investor Contact: Jon Kathol, 479-290-4235
TYSON REPORTS SECOND QUARTER
AND SIX MONTHS FISCAL
2012
RESULTS
Springdale, Arkansas 
May 7, 2012
Tyson Foods, Inc. (NYSE: TSN), today reported the following results:
Our multi-protein business again proved advantageous, producing solid earnings for the fiscal second quarter, said Donnie Smith, Tyson's president and chief executive officer. We were pleased with the rate of improvement in our Chicken business. The Chicken, Pork and Prepared Foods segments all were in or above their normalized operating margin ranges, while Beef essentially broke even despite extremely challenging market conditions.
We're positioned for another great year as we expect to gain momentum in our third and fourth quarters, Smith said. We still think we have the potential for earnings per share of $2 for the year if we execute as planned.
Segment Performance Review (in millions)
Fiscal 2012 Outlook
In fiscal 2012, overall domestic protein (chicken, beef, pork and turkey) production is expected to decrease. Because exports are likely to remain strong, we forecast total domestic availability of protein to be down 2-3% compared to fiscal 2011, which should continue to support improved pricing. The following is a summary of the fiscal 2012 outlook for each of our segments, as well as an outlook on sales, capital expenditures, net interest expense, debt and liquidity and share repurchases:
2
Outlook Continued
Segment Performance Review
Chicken Segment Results
Second quarter and six months  Fiscal 2012 vs Fiscal 2011
3
Beef Segment Results
Second quarter and six months  Fiscal 2012 vs Fiscal 2011
Pork Segment Results
Second quarter and six months  Fiscal 2012 vs Fiscal 2011
4
Prepared Foods Segment Results
Second quarter and six months  Fiscal 2012 vs Fiscal 2011
5
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
6
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
7
TYSON FOODS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
8
TYSON FOODS, INC.
EBITDA Reconciliations
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
EBITDA represents net income, net of interest, income tax and depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented as a supplemental financial measurement in the evaluation of our business. We believe the presentation of this financial measure helps investors to assess our operating performance from period to period and enhances understanding of our financial performance and highlights operational trends. This measure is widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. However, the measurement of EBITDA may not be comparable to those of other companies in our industry, which limits its usefulness as a comparative measure. EBITDA is not a measure required by or calculated in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for net income or any other measure of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of operating cash flow or liquidity. EBITDA is a useful tool for assessing, but is not a reliable indicator of, our ability to generate cash to service our debt obligations because certain of the items added to net income to determine EBITDA involve outlays of cash. As a result, actual cash available to service our debt obligations will be different from EBITDA. Investors should rely primarily on our GAAP results, and use non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally, in making investment decisions.
 
9
Tyson Foods, Inc., founded in 1935 with headquarters in Springdale, Arkansas, is one of the world's largest processors and marketers of chicken, beef and pork, the second-largest food production company in the
Fortune 500
and a member of the S&P 500. The company produces a wide variety of protein-based and prepared food products and is the recognized market leader in the retail and foodservice markets it serves. Tyson provides products and service to customers throughout the United States and more than 130 countries. The company has approximately 115,000 Team Members employed at more than 400 facilities and offices in the United States and around the world. Through its Core Values, Code of Conduct and Team Member Bill of Rights, Tyson strives to operate with integrity and trust and is committed to creating value for its shareholders, customers and Team Members. The company also strives to be faith-friendly, provide a safe work environment and serve as stewards of the animals, land and environment entrusted to it.
A conference call to discuss the Company's financial results will be held at 9 a.m. Eastern Monday,
May 7, 2012
. To listen live via telephone, call 888-455-8283. The call leader's name and a pass code will be required to join the call. The leader's name is Jon Kathol and the pass code is Tyson Foods. International callers dial 1-210-839-8865. A telephone replay will be available through June 8, 2012, at 800-284-7024. The live webcast, as well as the replay, will be available on the Internet at http://ir.tyson.com. Financial information, such as this news release, as well as other supplemental data, including Company distribution channel information, can be accessed from the Company's web site at http://ir.tyson.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain information contained in the press release may constitute forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to expected performance, and including, but not limited to, statements appearing in the Outlook section. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties which could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Among the factors that may cause actual results and experiences to differ from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are the following: (i) the effect of, or changes in, general economic conditions; (ii) fluctuations in the cost and availability of inputs and raw materials, such as live cattle, live swine, feed grains (including corn and soybean meal) and energy; (iii) market conditions for finished products, including competition from other global and domestic food processors, supply and pricing of competing products and alternative proteins and demand for alternative proteins; (iv) successful rationalization of existing facilities and operating efficiencies of the facilities; (v) risks associated with our commodity purchasing activities; (vi) access to foreign markets together with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, import/export restrictions and foreign politics; (vii) outbreak of a livestock disease (such as avian influenza (AI) or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE)), which could have an adverse effect on livestock we own, the availability of livestock we purchase, consumer perception of certain protein products or our ability to access certain domestic and foreign markets; (viii) changes in availability and relative costs of labor and contract growers and our ability to maintain good relationships with employees, labor unions, contract growers and independent producers providing us livestock; (ix) issues related to food safety, including costs resulting from product recalls, regulatory compliance and any related claims or litigation; (x) changes in consumer preference and diets and our ability to identify and react to consumer trends; (xi) significant marketing plan changes by large customers or loss of one or more large customers; (xii) adverse results from litigation; (xiii) risks associated with leverage, including cost increases due to rising interest rates or changes in debt ratings or outlook; (xiv) compliance with and changes to regulations and laws (both domestic and foreign), including changes in accounting standards, tax laws, environmental laws, agricultural laws and occupational, health and safety laws; (xv) our ability to make effective acquisitions or joint ventures and successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into existing operations; (xvi) effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs; and (xvii) those factors listed under Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our
October 1, 2011
, Annual Report filed on Form 10-K.
10


