Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those statements are identified as forward looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the statement. The Company wishes to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Act. This report, as well as other verbal or written statements or reports made by or on the behalf of the Company, may contain or may incorporate material by reference which includes forward looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Statements, other than those based on historical facts, which address activities, events, or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including such things as future capital expenditures (including the amount and nature thereof), business strategy, expansion and growth of the Companys business and operations, and other similar matters are forward looking statements, which are based upon a number of assumptions concerning future conditions that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. The words believe, anticipate, project, plan, expect, estimate, objective, forecast, goal, intend, will likely result, or will continue and similar expressions generally identify forward looking statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of its knowledge of its business, actual events and results may materially differ from anticipated results described in such statement. The Companys ability to achieve such results is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, any one, or a combination, of which could materially affect the results of the Companys operations. These factors include: sourcing and purchasing merchandise; the cost of the merchandise; economic and weather conditions which affect buying patterns of the Companys customers; changes in consumer spending and consumer debt levels; inflation; the Companys ability to anticipate buying patterns and implement appropriate inventory strategies; continued availability of capital and financing; competitive pressures and pricing pressures; the Companys ability to comply with the terms of its credit facilities (or obtain waivers for non compliance); interest rate fluctuations; transportation and distribution delays or interruptions, including, but not limited to, the impact of the recent management lockout of the West Coast dockworkers and any ongoing work slowdown on the economy and on the Companys ability to receive inventory; fuel price fluctuations; interruptions in suppliers businesses; costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology; a deterioration in general economic conditions caused by acts of war or terrorism; delays associated with constructing, opening and operating new stores; and other risks described from time to time in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its press releases, and in other communications. Consequently, all of the forward looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or that they will have the expected effects on the Company or its business or operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements contained in this report, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures the Company may make on related subjects in its Forms 10 Q, 8 K and 10 K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Page 15 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) OVERVIEW The discussion and analysis presented below should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes appearing elsewhere in this report. Business Operations The Company is the nations largest broadline closeout retailer. At February 1, 2003, the Company operated a total of 1,380 stores under the names BIG LOTS and BIG LOTS FURNITURE. The Companys goal is to build upon its leadership position in broadline closeout retailing, a growing segment of the retailing industry, by expanding its market presence in both existing and new markets. The Company believes that the combination of its strengths make it a low cost value retailer well positioned for future growth. Wholesale operations are conducted through BIG LOTS WHOLESALE, CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL, WISCONSIN TOY, and with online purchasing at www.biglotswholesale.com. The following table compares components of the Consolidated Statements of Operations of the Company as a percentage of net sales. Results for fiscal 2001 include the impact of a $50.4 million (after tax) non cash charge (see Non Cash 2001 Fourth Quarter Charge in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Fiscal Year 2002 2001 2000 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross profit 42.2 39.1 42.3 Selling and administrative expenses 38.4 39.9 36.6 Operating profit (loss) 3.8 (.8 ) 5.7 Interest expense .5 .6 .7 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 3.3 (1.4 ) 5.0 Income tax expense (benefit) 1.3 (.6 ) 2.0 Income (loss) from continuing operations 2.0 (.8 ) 3.0 Discontinued operations .2 (14.6 ) Net income (loss) 2.0 % (.6 )% (11.6 )% The Company has historically experienced, and expects to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations, with a significant percentage of its net sales and operating profit being realized in the fourth fiscal quarter. In addition, the Companys quarterly results can be affected by the timing of store openings and closings, the amount of net sales contributed by new and existing stores, as well as the timing of remodels, television and circular advertising, and the timing of certain holidays. Furthermore, in anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter, the Company purchases substantial amounts of inventory during the third quarter and hires a significant number of temporary employees to increase store staffing during the fourth quarter. Name Change and Reincorporation On May 16, 2001, the Company changed its name to Big Lots, Inc. and its ticker symbol to NYSE: BLI. The name change was approved at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 15, 2001. Also approved was a proposal to change the Companys state of incorporation from Delaware to Ohio. This change was affected by merging Consolidated Stores Corporation, a Delaware corporation (Consolidated (Delaware)), with and into Page 16 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) the Company (the Merger). At the effective time of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of Consolidated (Delaware) ceased, and the Company succeeded to all business, properties, assets, and liabilities of Consolidated (Delaware). The shares of common stock of Consolidated (Delaware) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger were, by virtue of the Merger, converted into an equal number of shares of fully paid and non assessable common shares of the Company. In connection with the Companys name change to Big Lots, Inc., 434 stores in total have been converted, including 380 stores previously operating under the names of Odd Lots, Mac Frugals, and Pic N Save, and 54 existing Big Lots stores located in conversion markets. As of the end of fiscal 2002, all of the Companys 1,380 stores were under the Big Lots name. In connection with this process, the Company made certain improvements to the converted sites. The improvements made varied by location and included, among other things, painting, lighting retrofits, new signage (interior and exterior), new flooring, and updated restrooms. The Company believes that Big Lots is its most recognizable brand name and that this change offers numerous opportunities to increase brand awareness among customers, suppliers, investors, and the general public. The Company believes the change will also allow it to leverage future television advertising and other expenses. On August 22, 2001, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had unanimously voted to redeem the preferred stock rights issued under the Companys Rights Agreement, sometimes referred to as a poison pill. The redemption was a direct result of the Companys redomestication into Ohio, as approved by its shareholders at the Companys 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. At the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, a non binding shareholder proposal passed seeking the termination of the Companys Rights Agreement. The Board of Directors believed that the statutory protections offered by the Companys new state of incorporation provided adequate safeguards to permit the Board of Directors and the Companys shareholders to fully and fairly evaluate any takeover offer, whether coercive or not. Accordingly, the Board of Directors found it to be in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to redeem the preferred stock rights issued under the Rights Agreement. Sale of Division On June 27, 2000, the Company announced its decision to separate the toy and closeout businesses by divesting the Companys KB Toy Division. The Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes have been reclassified for all applicable periods presented to reflect the toy segment as a discontinued operation. On December 7, 2000, the Company closed the sale of its KB Toy Division to an affiliate of Bain Capital, Inc. In connection with the sale, the Company recorded an after tax loss of $479.0 million consisting of a $48.2 million after tax loss from operations and a $430.8 million after tax loss on the disposal of the KB Toy Division. Proceeds from the sale were used primarily to pay down existing borrowings under the Companys senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Prior Revolver). The buyer purchased the business in conjunction with KB Toys management, who were retained to lead the KB Toy business. Gross proceeds totaled approximately $305 million, consisting primarily of $258 million in cash, a note with a face amount of $45 million, and a warrant to acquire common stock of the buyers parent. The note receivable matures on December 7, 2010, and bears interest at a rate of 8%. As of February 1, 2003, the note receivable from KB and the related common stock warrant were recorded as other long term assets on the balance sheet. The interest is payable in annual installments paid by issuing additional notes with substantially identical terms as the original note. At the time of the sale (the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000), the Company evaluated the fair value of the note received as consideration in the transaction and recorded the note at its then fair value of $13 million. The fair value of the note was established based on several factors including fair market value determinations obtained from independent financial advisors at the time of the sale, the Companys Page 17 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) knowledge of the underlying KB Toy business and industry, and the risks inherent in receiving no cash payments until the note matures in 2010. As of fiscal 2002, the Company recorded the interest earned and accretion of the discount utilizing the effective interest rate method and provided a full valuation reserve against such amounts as a result of its evaluation as to the recoverability of the carrying value of the notes. As of February 1, 2003, and February 2, 2002, the aggregate carrying value of these notes was $16 million. The warrant provides that the Company is entitled to purchase up to 2.5% of the common stock of the buyers parent for a stated per share price. The stock can be purchased any time prior to December 7, 2005. The note and warrant are being accounted for on the cost basis. The Company has, as part of the sale agreement, retained the responsibility for certain KB insurance claims incurred through the date of closing of the sale (December 7, 2000). During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company determined that the estimate for the related insurance reserves exceeded the expected liability. Accordingly, a portion of the insurance reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toy Division were adjusted and recorded as income from discontinued operations on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. This adjustment resulted in $8.5 million of after tax income from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2001. Non Cash 2001 Fourth Quarter Charge In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $50.4 million (after tax), or $0.44 per diluted share. The charge represented: a) costs to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain merchandise categories ($6.1 million after tax), b) adjustments to the estimated capitalized freight costs related to inbound imported inventories in response to better systems and information ($15.0 million after tax), c) adjustments to inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed stock keeping unit level (SKU) inventory management system ($16.7 million after tax), and d) changes in estimates and estimating methodology related to insurance reserves ($12.6 million after tax). These charges are included in the Companys fiscal 2001 fourth quarter financial statements. A critical element of the Companys overall business strategy has been a multi year initiative to improve its information systems, a major phase of which was completed in fiscal 2001. The new systems have given the Company the ability to track and manage inventories at the SKU level with improved visibility and data. The new systems have also provided better information on inventory balances and have given management the ability to assess profitability and financial returns down to the SKU level. Based on an analysis of SKU level information, the Company decided to modify its product assortment and exit certain categories of merchandise. This decision allowed the Company to expand its consumables and home categories, both of which management believes have superior financial returns. The markdowns associated with these discontinued products, all of which were taken during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, accounted for approximately $6.1 million (after tax) of the charge described above. The Company believes this action will result in a more productive assortment and a greater emphasis on the everyday consumable items that help drive repeat store traffic. The second component of the charge related to the estimated capitalized import freight costs which were incurred in connection with inbound inventories sourced from outside the United States. New information systems have improved the Companys ability to manage merchandise flow and freight costs. These improved systems have also provided better information and tools for determining the proper amount of capitalized import freight costs to be recorded on the balance sheet. Accordingly, based on this new information, the Company has revised its estimates and methodology, resulting in a $15.0 million (after tax) charge. Page 18 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The third component of the charge pertained to inventory related costs that had not been allocated to the cost of merchandise in the Companys detailed inventory stock ledger and, accordingly, were not being fully allocated to cost of goods sold. The Company identified this issue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 as a result of the conversion to the new SKU based systems, resulting in a $16.7 million (after tax) charge. The fourth and final component of the charge related to insurance reserves. At the end of fiscal 2001, the Company analyzed its insurance reserve accounts and implemented a new methodology that provided better actuarial estimates of future claims. This new methodology, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims, resulted in a $12.6 million (after tax) charge to increase the Companys insurance reserves. This charge consisted of two elements: the first related to the adjustment of reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toy Division, which resulted in $8.5 million (after tax) income from discontinued operations, and the second element of the charge was $21.1 million (after tax) to increase reserves related to continuing operations. FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,868.5 million for fiscal 2002 from $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001, an increase of $435.2 million, or 12.7%. This increase resulted primarily from a comparable stores sales increase of 7.7%, with the remaining 5.0% growth driven primarily by sales from 87 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 42 stores. The Company attributes its comparable store sales increase of 7.7% to an increase in the dollar value of the average transaction of 4.9% and an increase in the number of customer transactions of 2.8%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2002 may have resulted from several factors such as more reliable in stock levels of consumables products, more productive advertising circulars, increased television advertising spending, the successful re grand opening of 434 conversion stores since March 2001, and the introduction of furniture departments in 128 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, sales growth was broad based with positive comparable store sales increases across most major categories and strong gains in domestics, furniture, hardlines, consumables, toys, and home dcor. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 1, 2003 February 2, 2002 Comparable Store Sales 7.7 % 2.0 % Customer Transactions 2.8 % .3 % Value of the Average Transaction 4.9 % 1.7 % Page 19 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Gross Profit Gross profit increased $290.8 million, or 21.7%, in fiscal 2002 to $1,631.9 million from $1,341.1 million in fiscal 2001. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 42.2% in fiscal 2002 compared to 39.1% in the previous year. Of the 310 basis point improvement in the gross profit percentage, 180 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining 130 basis points of increase in the gross profit percentage was primarily due to improvements in initial markup due to opportunistic buying conditions across most merchandise categories, partially offset by promotional markdowns taken to clear seasonal inventory such as Christmas decorative merchandise. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $116.9 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,485.3 million from $1,368.4 million in fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased to 38.4% in fiscal 2002 from 39.9% in fiscal 2001. Of the 150 basis point improvement in the selling and administrative expense rate, 110 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves. The remaining 40 basis points of rate improvement in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to improving productivity in distribution, transportation, and store payroll, partially offset by the negative impact of increased insurance costs, as well as accelerating comparable sales on an expense base of which a large portion is fixed. The $116.9 million increase in selling and administrative spending was primarily driven by an increase in the number of stores, additional variable costs associated with the higher levels of sales (primarily store payroll, incentive compensation, distribution and transportation costs), investment in strategic repositioning initiatives, and insurance expense. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), decreased as a percentage of sales 60 basis points when compared to fiscal 2001. The reduction in warehousing and distribution costs as a percentage of sales is primarily due to productivity improvements and the leveraging of costs over a higher sales base. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, was $20.1 million for fiscal 2002 compared to $20.2 million for fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, interest expense for the year declined slightly compared to fiscal 2001. The fiscal 2002 interest primarily relates to the Companys senior notes and the amortization of debt issuance costs. The decrease in interest expense over fiscal 2001 is primarily due to lower average borrowings under the Companys senior revolving credit agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement). This decrease was partially offset by fiscal 2001 expense being favorably impacted in the first and second quarters by the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Additionally, the senior notes, which carry a higher Page 20 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) interest rate than the variable priced Revolving Credit Agreement, were not in place until the second quarter of fiscal 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2002 and 2001. FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001 from $3,277.1 million for fiscal 2000, an increase of $156.2 million, or 4.8%. This increase was attributable to sales from 78 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 33 stores, and a comparable store sales increase of 2.0%. Customer transactions increased 0.3% and the value of the average basket increased 1.7%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2001 may have resulted from several factors such as increased television advertising which raised the Companys total television coverage from 30% of net sales to 52% of net sales, the successful re grand opening of 205 conversion stores, and the introduction of furniture departments in 148 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, furniture, home dcor, seasonal, and consumables drove sales growth with positive comparable store sales increases. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 2, 2002 February 3, 2001 Comparable Store Sales 2.0 % 3.7 % Customer Transactions .3 % (2.1 %) Value of the Average Transaction 1.7 % 5.8 % Gross Profit Gross profit decreased $44.6 million, or 3.2%, in fiscal 2001 to $1,341.1 million from $1,385.7 million in fiscal 2000. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 39.1% in fiscal 2001 compared to 42.3% in the previous year. The decline in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a Page 21 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining decline in gross profit percentage was primarily due to aggressive markdowns and promotions taken to sell through seasonal merchandise and apparel. The decline was also impacted by a shift in product mix as customers increased purchases of lower margin consumable goods and reduced spending on more discretionary, higher margin items. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $168.1 million in fiscal 2001 from $1,200.3 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses were 39.9% in fiscal 2001 compared to 36.6% in fiscal 2000. The major cause of the increase as a percentage of net sales was due to a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims. The remaining selling and administrative rate increase was primarily driven by the deleveraging impact of lower comparable store sales combined with planned strategic initiatives, including increased advertising, store maintenance, and customer service investments. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), increased as a percentage of sales 50 basis points over fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily due to higher carton volume on a lower comparable sales base as well as additional overhead costs related to the new Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, decreased to $20.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $22.9 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease in interest expense reflects favorable effective interest rates, a lower average debt balance, and the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2001 and 2000. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY On May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of financial institutions, which consisted of a $358.75 million three year revolving credit facility and a $153.75 million 364 day facility, renewable annually. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced the Companys Prior Revolver which, at the time of its replacement, consisted of a $500 million revolving credit facility that was due to expire on May 6, 2002. The average interest rate under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was 3.01% and 5.41%, respectively. Also on May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Senior Note Agreement pursuant to which it completed a $204 million private placement of senior notes with maturities ranging from four to six years (Senior Notes). Page 22 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Principal maturities of long term debt for the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2003 $ 2004 $ 2005 $ 174 million 2006 $ 15 million 2007 $ 15 million The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. Both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, both the Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement were amended to exclude the non cash 2001 fourth quarter charge from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002 amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates monthly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. The Company believes that the remaining $358.75 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations, existing cash balances, and the Senior Notes, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flow from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital at February 1, 2003, was $658.3 million and net cash provided by operations was $218.2 million for the fiscal year then ended. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at February 1, 2003. At such date, the Company was contingently liable for outstanding letters of credit totaling $32.5 million and had $143.8 million of invested funds. The Company received federal tax refunds of approximately $62 million in fiscal 2002 and $73.2 million in fiscal 2001 from the utilization of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards primarily relating to the divestiture of the KB Toy Division. During fiscal 2002, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $17 million and peak borrowings of $93.5 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $34.2 million during fiscal 2002. At the point of its peak borrowing, the Company had $188.8 million of unused availability under its borrowing base formula. Page 23 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) OVERVIEW The discussion and analysis presented below should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes appearing elsewhere in this report. Business Operations The Company is the nations largest broadline closeout retailer. At February 1, 2003, the Company operated a total of 1,380 stores under the names BIG LOTS and BIG LOTS FURNITURE. The Companys goal is to build upon its leadership position in broadline closeout retailing, a growing segment of the retailing industry, by expanding its market presence in both existing and new markets. The Company believes that the combination of its strengths make it a low cost value retailer well positioned for future growth. Wholesale operations are conducted through BIG LOTS WHOLESALE, CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL, WISCONSIN TOY, and with online purchasing at www.biglotswholesale.com. The following table compares components of the Consolidated Statements of Operations of the Company as a percentage of net sales. Results for fiscal 2001 include the impact of a $50.4 million (after tax) non cash charge (see Non Cash 2001 Fourth Quarter Charge in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Fiscal Year 2002 2001 2000 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross profit 42.2 39.1 42.3 Selling and administrative expenses 38.4 39.9 36.6 Operating profit (loss) 3.8 (.8 ) 5.7 Interest expense .5 .6 .7 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 3.3 (1.4 ) 5.0 Income tax expense (benefit) 1.3 (.6 ) 2.0 Income (loss) from continuing operations 2.0 (.8 ) 3.0 Discontinued operations .2 (14.6 ) Net income (loss) 2.0 % (.6 )% (11.6 )% The Company has historically experienced, and expects to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations, with a significant percentage of its net sales and operating profit being realized in the fourth fiscal quarter. In addition, the Companys quarterly results can be affected by the timing of store openings and closings, the amount of net sales contributed by new and existing stores, as well as the timing of remodels, television and circular advertising, and the timing of certain holidays. Furthermore, in anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter, the Company purchases substantial amounts of inventory during the third quarter and hires a significant number of temporary employees to increase store staffing during the fourth quarter. Name Change and Reincorporation On May 16, 2001, the Company changed its name to Big Lots, Inc. and its ticker symbol to NYSE: BLI. The name change was approved at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 15, 2001. Also approved was a proposal to change the Companys state of incorporation from Delaware to Ohio. This change was affected by merging Consolidated Stores Corporation, a Delaware corporation (Consolidated (Delaware)), with and into Page 16 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) the Company (the Merger). At the effective time of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of Consolidated (Delaware) ceased, and the Company succeeded to all business, properties, assets, and liabilities of Consolidated (Delaware). The shares of common stock of Consolidated (Delaware) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger were, by virtue of the Merger, converted into an equal number of shares of fully paid and non assessable common shares of the Company. In connection with the Companys name change to Big Lots, Inc., 434 stores in total have been converted, including 380 stores previously operating under the names of Odd Lots, Mac Frugals, and Pic N Save, and 54 existing Big Lots stores located in conversion markets. As of the end of fiscal 2002, all of the Companys 1,380 stores were under the Big Lots name. In connection with this process, the Company made certain improvements to the converted sites. The improvements made varied by location and included, among other things, painting, lighting retrofits, new signage (interior and exterior), new flooring, and updated restrooms. The Company believes that Big Lots is its most recognizable brand name and that this change offers numerous opportunities to increase brand awareness among customers, suppliers, investors, and the general public. The Company believes the change will also allow it to leverage future television advertising and other expenses. On August 22, 2001, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had unanimously voted to redeem the preferred stock rights issued under the Companys Rights Agreement, sometimes referred to as a poison pill. The redemption was a direct result of the Companys redomestication into Ohio, as approved by its shareholders at the Companys 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. At the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, a non binding shareholder proposal passed seeking the termination of the Companys Rights Agreement. The Board of Directors believed that the statutory protections offered by the Companys new state of incorporation provided adequate safeguards to permit the Board of Directors and the Companys shareholders to fully and fairly evaluate any takeover offer, whether coercive or not. Accordingly, the Board of Directors found it to be in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to redeem the preferred stock rights issued under the Rights Agreement. Sale of Division On June 27, 2000, the Company announced its decision to separate the toy and closeout businesses by divesting the Companys KB Toy Division. The Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes have been reclassified for all applicable periods presented to reflect the toy segment as a discontinued operation. On December 7, 2000, the Company closed the sale of its KB Toy Division to an affiliate of Bain Capital, Inc. In connection with the sale, the Company recorded an after tax loss of $479.0 million consisting of a $48.2 million after tax loss from operations and a $430.8 million after tax loss on the disposal of the KB Toy Division. Proceeds from the sale were used primarily to pay down existing borrowings under the Companys senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Prior Revolver). The buyer purchased the business in conjunction with KB Toys management, who were retained to lead the KB Toy business. Gross proceeds totaled approximately $305 million, consisting primarily of $258 million in cash, a note with a face amount of $45 million, and a warrant to acquire common stock of the buyers parent. The note receivable matures on December 7, 2010, and bears interest at a rate of 8%. As of February 1, 2003, the note receivable from KB and the related common stock warrant were recorded as other long term assets on the balance sheet. The interest is payable in annual installments paid by issuing additional notes with substantially identical terms as the original note. At the time of the sale (the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000), the Company evaluated the fair value of the note received as consideration in the transaction and recorded the note at its then fair value of $13 million. The fair value of the note was established based on several factors including fair market value determinations obtained from independent financial advisors at the time of the sale, the Companys Page 17 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) knowledge of the underlying KB Toy business and industry, and the risks inherent in receiving no cash payments until the note matures in 2010. As of fiscal 2002, the Company recorded the interest earned and accretion of the discount utilizing the effective interest rate method and provided a full valuation reserve against such amounts as a result of its evaluation as to the recoverability of the carrying value of the notes. As of February 1, 2003, and February 2, 2002, the aggregate carrying value of these notes was $16 million. The warrant provides that the Company is entitled to purchase up to 2.5% of the common stock of the buyers parent for a stated per share price. The stock can be purchased any time prior to December 7, 2005. The note and warrant are being accounted for on the cost basis. The Company has, as part of the sale agreement, retained the responsibility for certain KB insurance claims incurred through the date of closing of the sale (December 7, 2000). During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company determined that the estimate for the related insurance reserves exceeded the expected liability. Accordingly, a portion of the insurance reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toy Division were adjusted and recorded as income from discontinued operations on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. This adjustment resulted in $8.5 million of after tax income from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2001. Non Cash 2001 Fourth Quarter Charge In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $50.4 million (after tax), or $0.44 per diluted share. The charge represented: a) costs to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain merchandise categories ($6.1 million after tax), b) adjustments to the estimated capitalized freight costs related to inbound imported inventories in response to better systems and information ($15.0 million after tax), c) adjustments to inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed stock keeping unit level (SKU) inventory management system ($16.7 million after tax), and d) changes in estimates and estimating methodology related to insurance reserves ($12.6 million after tax). These charges are included in the Companys fiscal 2001 fourth quarter financial statements. A critical element of the Companys overall business strategy has been a multi year initiative to improve its information systems, a major phase of which was completed in fiscal 2001. The new systems have given the Company the ability to track and manage inventories at the SKU level with improved visibility and data. The new systems have also provided better information on inventory balances and have given management the ability to assess profitability and financial returns down to the SKU level. Based on an analysis of SKU level information, the Company decided to modify its product assortment and exit certain categories of merchandise. This decision allowed the Company to expand its consumables and home categories, both of which management believes have superior financial returns. The markdowns associated with these discontinued products, all of which were taken during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, accounted for approximately $6.1 million (after tax) of the charge described above. The Company believes this action will result in a more productive assortment and a greater emphasis on the everyday consumable items that help drive repeat store traffic. The second component of the charge related to the estimated capitalized import freight costs which were incurred in connection with inbound inventories sourced from outside the United States. New information systems have improved the Companys ability to manage merchandise flow and freight costs. These improved systems have also provided better information and tools for determining the proper amount of capitalized import freight costs to be recorded on the balance sheet. Accordingly, based on this new information, the Company has revised its estimates and methodology, resulting in a $15.0 million (after tax) charge. Page 18 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The third component of the charge pertained to inventory related costs that had not been allocated to the cost of merchandise in the Companys detailed inventory stock ledger and, accordingly, were not being fully allocated to cost of goods sold. The Company identified this issue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 as a result of the conversion to the new SKU based systems, resulting in a $16.7 million (after tax) charge. The fourth and final component of the charge related to insurance reserves. At the end of fiscal 2001, the Company analyzed its insurance reserve accounts and implemented a new methodology that provided better actuarial estimates of future claims. This new methodology, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims, resulted in a $12.6 million (after tax) charge to increase the Companys insurance reserves. This charge consisted of two elements: the first related to the adjustment of reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toy Division, which resulted in $8.5 million (after tax) income from discontinued operations, and the second element of the charge was $21.1 million (after tax) to increase reserves related to continuing operations. FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,868.5 million for fiscal 2002 from $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001, an increase of $435.2 million, or 12.7%. This increase resulted primarily from a comparable stores sales increase of 7.7%, with the remaining 5.0% growth driven primarily by sales from 87 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 42 stores. The Company attributes its comparable store sales increase of 7.7% to an increase in the dollar value of the average transaction of 4.9% and an increase in the number of customer transactions of 2.8%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2002 may have resulted from several factors such as more reliable in stock levels of consumables products, more productive advertising circulars, increased television advertising spending, the successful re grand opening of 434 conversion stores since March 2001, and the introduction of furniture departments in 128 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, sales growth was broad based with positive comparable store sales increases across most major categories and strong gains in domestics, furniture, hardlines, consumables, toys, and home dcor. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 1, 2003 February 2, 2002 Comparable Store Sales 7.7 % 2.0 % Customer Transactions 2.8 % .3 % Value of the Average Transaction 4.9 % 1.7 % Page 19 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Gross Profit Gross profit increased $290.8 million, or 21.7%, in fiscal 2002 to $1,631.9 million from $1,341.1 million in fiscal 2001. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 42.2% in fiscal 2002 compared to 39.1% in the previous year. Of the 310 basis point improvement in the gross profit percentage, 180 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining 130 basis points of increase in the gross profit percentage was primarily due to improvements in initial markup due to opportunistic buying conditions across most merchandise categories, partially offset by promotional markdowns taken to clear seasonal inventory such as Christmas decorative merchandise. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $116.9 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,485.3 million from $1,368.4 million in fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased to 38.4% in fiscal 2002 from 39.9% in fiscal 2001. Of the 150 basis point improvement in the selling and administrative expense rate, 110 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves. The remaining 40 basis points of rate improvement in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to improving productivity in distribution, transportation, and store payroll, partially offset by the negative impact of increased insurance costs, as well as accelerating comparable sales on an expense base of which a large portion is fixed. The $116.9 million increase in selling and administrative spending was primarily driven by an increase in the number of stores, additional variable costs associated with the higher levels of sales (primarily store payroll, incentive compensation, distribution and transportation costs), investment in strategic repositioning initiatives, and insurance expense. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), decreased as a percentage of sales 60 basis points when compared to fiscal 2001. The reduction in warehousing and distribution costs as a percentage of sales is primarily due to productivity improvements and the leveraging of costs over a higher sales base. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, was $20.1 million for fiscal 2002 compared to $20.2 million for fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, interest expense for the year declined slightly compared to fiscal 2001. The fiscal 2002 interest primarily relates to the Companys senior notes and the amortization of debt issuance costs. The decrease in interest expense over fiscal 2001 is primarily due to lower average borrowings under the Companys senior revolving credit agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement). This decrease was partially offset by fiscal 2001 expense being favorably impacted in the first and second quarters by the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Additionally, the senior notes, which carry a higher Page 20 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) interest rate than the variable priced Revolving Credit Agreement, were not in place until the second quarter of fiscal 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2002 and 2001. FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001 from $3,277.1 million for fiscal 2000, an increase of $156.2 million, or 4.8%. This increase was attributable to sales from 78 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 33 stores, and a comparable store sales increase of 2.0%. Customer transactions increased 0.3% and the value of the average basket increased 1.7%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2001 may have resulted from several factors such as increased television advertising which raised the Companys total television coverage from 30% of net sales to 52% of net sales, the successful re grand opening of 205 conversion stores, and the introduction of furniture departments in 148 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, furniture, home dcor, seasonal, and consumables drove sales growth with positive comparable store sales increases. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 2, 2002 February 3, 2001 Comparable Store Sales 2.0 % 3.7 % Customer Transactions .3 % (2.1 %) Value of the Average Transaction 1.7 % 5.8 % Gross Profit Gross profit decreased $44.6 million, or 3.2%, in fiscal 2001 to $1,341.1 million from $1,385.7 million in fiscal 2000. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 39.1% in fiscal 2001 compared to 42.3% in the previous year. The decline in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a Page 21 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining decline in gross profit percentage was primarily due to aggressive markdowns and promotions taken to sell through seasonal merchandise and apparel. The decline was also impacted by a shift in product mix as customers increased purchases of lower margin consumable goods and reduced spending on more discretionary, higher margin items. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $168.1 million in fiscal 2001 from $1,200.3 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses were 39.9% in fiscal 2001 compared to 36.6% in fiscal 2000. The major cause of the increase as a percentage of net sales was due to a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims. The remaining selling and administrative rate increase was primarily driven by the deleveraging impact of lower comparable store sales combined with planned strategic initiatives, including increased advertising, store maintenance, and customer service investments. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), increased as a percentage of sales 50 basis points over fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily due to higher carton volume on a lower comparable sales base as well as additional overhead costs related to the new Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, decreased to $20.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $22.9 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease in interest expense reflects favorable effective interest rates, a lower average debt balance, and the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2001 and 2000. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY On May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of financial institutions, which consisted of a $358.75 million three year revolving credit facility and a $153.75 million 364 day facility, renewable annually. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced the Companys Prior Revolver which, at the time of its replacement, consisted of a $500 million revolving credit facility that was due to expire on May 6, 2002. The average interest rate under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was 3.01% and 5.41%, respectively. Also on May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Senior Note Agreement pursuant to which it completed a $204 million private placement of senior notes with maturities ranging from four to six years (Senior Notes). Page 22 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Principal maturities of long term debt for the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2003 $ 2004 $ 2005 $ 174 million 2006 $ 15 million 2007 $ 15 million The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. Both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, both the Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement were amended to exclude the non cash 2001 fourth quarter charge from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002 amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates monthly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. The Company believes that the remaining $358.75 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations, existing cash balances, and the Senior Notes, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flow from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital at February 1, 2003, was $658.3 million and net cash provided by operations was $218.2 million for the fiscal year then ended. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at February 1, 2003. At such date, the Company was contingently liable for outstanding letters of credit totaling $32.5 million and had $143.8 million of invested funds. The Company received federal tax refunds of approximately $62 million in fiscal 2002 and $73.2 million in fiscal 2001 from the utilization of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards primarily relating to the divestiture of the KB Toy Division. During fiscal 2002, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $17 million and peak borrowings of $93.5 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $34.2 million during fiscal 2002. At the point of its peak borrowing, the Company had $188.8 million of unused availability under its borrowing base formula. Page 23 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) the Company (the Merger). At the effective time of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of Consolidated (Delaware) ceased, and the Company succeeded to all business, properties, assets, and liabilities of Consolidated (Delaware). The shares of common stock of Consolidated (Delaware) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger were, by virtue of the Merger, converted into an equal number of shares of fully paid and non assessable common shares of the Company. In connection with the Companys name change to Big Lots, Inc., 434 stores in total have been converted, including 380 stores previously operating under the names of Odd Lots, Mac Frugals, and Pic N Save, and 54 existing Big Lots stores located in conversion markets. As of the end of fiscal 2002, all of the Companys 1,380 stores were under the Big Lots name. In connection with this process, the Company made certain improvements to the converted sites. The improvements made varied by location and included, among other things, painting, lighting retrofits, new signage (interior and exterior), new flooring, and updated restrooms. The Company believes that Big Lots is its most recognizable brand name and that this change offers numerous opportunities to increase brand awareness among customers, suppliers, investors, and the general public. The Company believes the change will also allow it to leverage future television advertising and other expenses. On August 22, 2001, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had unanimously voted to redeem the preferred stock rights issued under the Companys Rights Agreement, sometimes referred to as a poison pill. The redemption was a direct result of the Companys redomestication into Ohio, as approved by its shareholders at the Companys 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. At the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, a non binding shareholder proposal passed seeking the termination of the Companys Rights Agreement. The Board of Directors believed that the statutory protections offered by the Companys new state of incorporation provided adequate safeguards to permit the Board of Directors and the Companys shareholders to fully and fairly evaluate any takeover offer, whether coercive or not. Accordingly, the Board of Directors found it to be in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to redeem the preferred stock rights issued under the Rights Agreement. Sale of Division On June 27, 2000, the Company announced its decision to separate the toy and closeout businesses by divesting the Companys KB Toy Division. The Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes have been reclassified for all applicable periods presented to reflect the toy segment as a discontinued operation. On December 7, 2000, the Company closed the sale of its KB Toy Division to an affiliate of Bain Capital, Inc. In connection with the sale, the Company recorded an after tax loss of $479.0 million consisting of a $48.2 million after tax loss from operations and a $430.8 million after tax loss on the disposal of the KB Toy Division. Proceeds from the sale were used primarily to pay down existing borrowings under the Companys senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Prior Revolver). The buyer purchased the business in conjunction with KB Toys management, who were retained to lead the KB Toy business. Gross proceeds totaled approximately $305 million, consisting primarily of $258 million in cash, a note with a face amount of $45 million, and a warrant to acquire common stock of the buyers parent. The note receivable matures on December 7, 2010, and bears interest at a rate of 8%. As of February 1, 2003, the note receivable from KB and the related common stock warrant were recorded as other long term assets on the balance sheet. The interest is payable in annual installments paid by issuing additional notes with substantially identical terms as the original note. At the time of the sale (the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000), the Company evaluated the fair value of the note received as consideration in the transaction and recorded the note at its then fair value of $13 million. The fair value of the note was established based on several factors including fair market value determinations obtained from independent financial advisors at the time of the sale, the Companys Page 17 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) knowledge of the underlying KB Toy business and industry, and the risks inherent in receiving no cash payments until the note matures in 2010. As of fiscal 2002, the Company recorded the interest earned and accretion of the discount utilizing the effective interest rate method and provided a full valuation reserve against such amounts as a result of its evaluation as to the recoverability of the carrying value of the notes. As of February 1, 2003, and February 2, 2002, the aggregate carrying value of these notes was $16 million. The warrant provides that the Company is entitled to purchase up to 2.5% of the common stock of the buyers parent for a stated per share price. The stock can be purchased any time prior to December 7, 2005. The note and warrant are being accounted for on the cost basis. The Company has, as part of the sale agreement, retained the responsibility for certain KB insurance claims incurred through the date of closing of the sale (December 7, 2000). During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company determined that the estimate for the related insurance reserves exceeded the expected liability. Accordingly, a portion of the insurance reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toy Division were adjusted and recorded as income from discontinued operations on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. This adjustment resulted in $8.5 million of after tax income from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2001. Non Cash 2001 Fourth Quarter Charge In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $50.4 million (after tax), or $0.44 per diluted share. The charge represented: a) costs to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain merchandise categories ($6.1 million after tax), b) adjustments to the estimated capitalized freight costs related to inbound imported inventories in response to better systems and information ($15.0 million after tax), c) adjustments to inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed stock keeping unit level (SKU) inventory management system ($16.7 million after tax), and d) changes in estimates and estimating methodology related to insurance reserves ($12.6 million after tax). These charges are included in the Companys fiscal 2001 fourth quarter financial statements. A critical element of the Companys overall business strategy has been a multi year initiative to improve its information systems, a major phase of which was completed in fiscal 2001. The new systems have given the Company the ability to track and manage inventories at the SKU level with improved visibility and data. The new systems have also provided better information on inventory balances and have given management the ability to assess profitability and financial returns down to the SKU level. Based on an analysis of SKU level information, the Company decided to modify its product assortment and exit certain categories of merchandise. This decision allowed the Company to expand its consumables and home categories, both of which management believes have superior financial returns. The markdowns associated with these discontinued products, all of which were taken during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, accounted for approximately $6.1 million (after tax) of the charge described above. The Company believes this action will result in a more productive assortment and a greater emphasis on the everyday consumable items that help drive repeat store traffic. The second component of the charge related to the estimated capitalized import freight costs which were incurred in connection with inbound inventories sourced from outside the United States. New information systems have improved the Companys ability to manage merchandise flow and freight costs. These improved systems have also provided better information and tools for determining the proper amount of capitalized import freight costs to be recorded on the balance sheet. Accordingly, based on this new information, the Company has revised its estimates and methodology, resulting in a $15.0 million (after tax) charge. Page 18 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The third component of the charge pertained to inventory related costs that had not been allocated to the cost of merchandise in the Companys detailed inventory stock ledger and, accordingly, were not being fully allocated to cost of goods sold. The Company identified this issue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 as a result of the conversion to the new SKU based systems, resulting in a $16.7 million (after tax) charge. The fourth and final component of the charge related to insurance reserves. At the end of fiscal 2001, the Company analyzed its insurance reserve accounts and implemented a new methodology that provided better actuarial estimates of future claims. This new methodology, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims, resulted in a $12.6 million (after tax) charge to increase the Companys insurance reserves. This charge consisted of two elements: the first related to the adjustment of reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toy Division, which resulted in $8.5 million (after tax) income from discontinued operations, and the second element of the charge was $21.1 million (after tax) to increase reserves related to continuing operations. FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,868.5 million for fiscal 2002 from $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001, an increase of $435.2 million, or 12.7%. This increase resulted primarily from a comparable stores sales increase of 7.7%, with the remaining 5.0% growth driven primarily by sales from 87 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 42 stores. The Company attributes its comparable store sales increase of 7.7% to an increase in the dollar value of the average transaction of 4.9% and an increase in the number of customer transactions of 2.8%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2002 may have resulted from several factors such as more reliable in stock levels of consumables products, more productive advertising circulars, increased television advertising spending, the successful re grand opening of 434 conversion stores since March 2001, and the introduction of furniture departments in 128 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, sales growth was broad based with positive comparable store sales increases across most major categories and strong gains in domestics, furniture, hardlines, consumables, toys, and home dcor. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 1, 2003 February 2, 2002 Comparable Store Sales 7.7 % 2.0 % Customer Transactions 2.8 % .3 % Value of the Average Transaction 4.9 % 1.7 % Page 19 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Gross Profit Gross profit increased $290.8 million, or 21.7%, in fiscal 2002 to $1,631.9 million from $1,341.1 million in fiscal 2001. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 42.2% in fiscal 2002 compared to 39.1% in the previous year. Of the 310 basis point improvement in the gross profit percentage, 180 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining 130 basis points of increase in the gross profit percentage was primarily due to improvements in initial markup due to opportunistic buying conditions across most merchandise categories, partially offset by promotional markdowns taken to clear seasonal inventory such as Christmas decorative merchandise. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $116.9 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,485.3 million from $1,368.4 million in fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased to 38.4% in fiscal 2002 from 39.9% in fiscal 2001. Of the 150 basis point improvement in the selling and administrative expense rate, 110 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves. The remaining 40 basis points of rate improvement in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to improving productivity in distribution, transportation, and store payroll, partially offset by the negative impact of increased insurance costs, as well as accelerating comparable sales on an expense base of which a large portion is fixed. The $116.9 million increase in selling and administrative spending was primarily driven by an increase in the number of stores, additional variable costs associated with the higher levels of sales (primarily store payroll, incentive compensation, distribution and transportation costs), investment in strategic repositioning initiatives, and insurance expense. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), decreased as a percentage of sales 60 basis points when compared to fiscal 2001. The reduction in warehousing and distribution costs as a percentage of sales is primarily due to productivity improvements and the leveraging of costs over a higher sales base. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, was $20.1 million for fiscal 2002 compared to $20.2 million for fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, interest expense for the year declined slightly compared to fiscal 2001. The fiscal 2002 interest primarily relates to the Companys senior notes and the amortization of debt issuance costs. The decrease in interest expense over fiscal 2001 is primarily due to lower average borrowings under the Companys senior revolving credit agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement). This decrease was partially offset by fiscal 2001 expense being favorably impacted in the first and second quarters by the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Additionally, the senior notes, which carry a higher Page 20 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) interest rate than the variable priced Revolving Credit Agreement, were not in place until the second quarter of fiscal 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2002 and 2001. FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001 from $3,277.1 million for fiscal 2000, an increase of $156.2 million, or 4.8%. This increase was attributable to sales from 78 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 33 stores, and a comparable store sales increase of 2.0%. Customer transactions increased 0.3% and the value of the average basket increased 1.7%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2001 may have resulted from several factors such as increased television advertising which raised the Companys total television coverage from 30% of net sales to 52% of net sales, the successful re grand opening of 205 conversion stores, and the introduction of furniture departments in 148 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, furniture, home dcor, seasonal, and consumables drove sales growth with positive comparable store sales increases. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 2, 2002 February 3, 2001 Comparable Store Sales 2.0 % 3.7 % Customer Transactions .3 % (2.1 %) Value of the Average Transaction 1.7 % 5.8 % Gross Profit Gross profit decreased $44.6 million, or 3.2%, in fiscal 2001 to $1,341.1 million from $1,385.7 million in fiscal 2000. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 39.1% in fiscal 2001 compared to 42.3% in the previous year. The decline in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a Page 21 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining decline in gross profit percentage was primarily due to aggressive markdowns and promotions taken to sell through seasonal merchandise and apparel. The decline was also impacted by a shift in product mix as customers increased purchases of lower margin consumable goods and reduced spending on more discretionary, higher margin items. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $168.1 million in fiscal 2001 from $1,200.3 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses were 39.9% in fiscal 2001 compared to 36.6% in fiscal 2000. The major cause of the increase as a percentage of net sales was due to a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims. The remaining selling and administrative rate increase was primarily driven by the deleveraging impact of lower comparable store sales combined with planned strategic initiatives, including increased advertising, store maintenance, and customer service investments. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), increased as a percentage of sales 50 basis points over fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily due to higher carton volume on a lower comparable sales base as well as additional overhead costs related to the new Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, decreased to $20.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $22.9 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease in interest expense reflects favorable effective interest rates, a lower average debt balance, and the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2001 and 2000. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY On May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of financial institutions, which consisted of a $358.75 million three year revolving credit facility and a $153.75 million 364 day facility, renewable annually. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced the Companys Prior Revolver which, at the time of its replacement, consisted of a $500 million revolving credit facility that was due to expire on May 6, 2002. The average interest rate under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was 3.01% and 5.41%, respectively. Also on May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Senior Note Agreement pursuant to which it completed a $204 million private placement of senior notes with maturities ranging from four to six years (Senior Notes). Page 22 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Principal maturities of long term debt for the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2003 $ 2004 $ 2005 $ 174 million 2006 $ 15 million 2007 $ 15 million The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. Both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, both the Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement were amended to exclude the non cash 2001 fourth quarter charge from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002 amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates monthly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. The Company believes that the remaining $358.75 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations, existing cash balances, and the Senior Notes, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flow from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital at February 1, 2003, was $658.3 million and net cash provided by operations was $218.2 million for the fiscal year then ended. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at February 1, 2003. At such date, the Company was contingently liable for outstanding letters of credit totaling $32.5 million and had $143.8 million of invested funds. The Company received federal tax refunds of approximately $62 million in fiscal 2002 and $73.2 million in fiscal 2001 from the utilization of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards primarily relating to the divestiture of the KB Toy Division. During fiscal 2002, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $17 million and peak borrowings of $93.5 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $34.2 million during fiscal 2002. At the point of its peak borrowing, the Company had $188.8 million of unused availability under its borrowing base formula. Page 23 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) knowledge of the underlying KB Toy business and industry, and the risks inherent in receiving no cash payments until the note matures in 2010. As of fiscal 2002, the Company recorded the interest earned and accretion of the discount utilizing the effective interest rate method and provided a full valuation reserve against such amounts as a result of its evaluation as to the recoverability of the carrying value of the notes. As of February 1, 2003, and February 2, 2002, the aggregate carrying value of these notes was $16 million. The warrant provides that the Company is entitled to purchase up to 2.5% of the common stock of the buyers parent for a stated per share price. The stock can be purchased any time prior to December 7, 2005. The note and warrant are being accounted for on the cost basis. The Company has, as part of the sale agreement, retained the responsibility for certain KB insurance claims incurred through the date of closing of the sale (December 7, 2000). During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company determined that the estimate for the related insurance reserves exceeded the expected liability. Accordingly, a portion of the insurance reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toy Division were adjusted and recorded as income from discontinued operations on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. This adjustment resulted in $8.5 million of after tax income from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2001. Non Cash 2001 Fourth Quarter Charge In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $50.4 million (after tax), or $0.44 per diluted share. The charge represented: a) costs to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain merchandise categories ($6.1 million after tax), b) adjustments to the estimated capitalized freight costs related to inbound imported inventories in response to better systems and information ($15.0 million after tax), c) adjustments to inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed stock keeping unit level (SKU) inventory management system ($16.7 million after tax), and d) changes in estimates and estimating methodology related to insurance reserves ($12.6 million after tax). These charges are included in the Companys fiscal 2001 fourth quarter financial statements. A critical element of the Companys overall business strategy has been a multi year initiative to improve its information systems, a major phase of which was completed in fiscal 2001. The new systems have given the Company the ability to track and manage inventories at the SKU level with improved visibility and data. The new systems have also provided better information on inventory balances and have given management the ability to assess profitability and financial returns down to the SKU level. Based on an analysis of SKU level information, the Company decided to modify its product assortment and exit certain categories of merchandise. This decision allowed the Company to expand its consumables and home categories, both of which management believes have superior financial returns. The markdowns associated with these discontinued products, all of which were taken during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, accounted for approximately $6.1 million (after tax) of the charge described above. The Company believes this action will result in a more productive assortment and a greater emphasis on the everyday consumable items that help drive repeat store traffic. The second component of the charge related to the estimated capitalized import freight costs which were incurred in connection with inbound inventories sourced from outside the United States. New information systems have improved the Companys ability to manage merchandise flow and freight costs. These improved systems have also provided better information and tools for determining the proper amount of capitalized import freight costs to be recorded on the balance sheet. Accordingly, based on this new information, the Company has revised its estimates and methodology, resulting in a $15.0 million (after tax) charge. Page 18 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The third component of the charge pertained to inventory related costs that had not been allocated to the cost of merchandise in the Companys detailed inventory stock ledger and, accordingly, were not being fully allocated to cost of goods sold. The Company identified this issue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 as a result of the conversion to the new SKU based systems, resulting in a $16.7 million (after tax) charge. The fourth and final component of the charge related to insurance reserves. At the end of fiscal 2001, the Company analyzed its insurance reserve accounts and implemented a new methodology that provided better actuarial estimates of future claims. This new methodology, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims, resulted in a $12.6 million (after tax) charge to increase the Companys insurance reserves. This charge consisted of two elements: the first related to the adjustment of reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toy Division, which resulted in $8.5 million (after tax) income from discontinued operations, and the second element of the charge was $21.1 million (after tax) to increase reserves related to continuing operations. FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,868.5 million for fiscal 2002 from $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001, an increase of $435.2 million, or 12.7%. This increase resulted primarily from a comparable stores sales increase of 7.7%, with the remaining 5.0% growth driven primarily by sales from 87 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 42 stores. The Company attributes its comparable store sales increase of 7.7% to an increase in the dollar value of the average transaction of 4.9% and an increase in the number of customer transactions of 2.8%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2002 may have resulted from several factors such as more reliable in stock levels of consumables products, more productive advertising circulars, increased television advertising spending, the successful re grand opening of 434 conversion stores since March 2001, and the introduction of furniture departments in 128 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, sales growth was broad based with positive comparable store sales increases across most major categories and strong gains in domestics, furniture, hardlines, consumables, toys, and home dcor. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 1, 2003 February 2, 2002 Comparable Store Sales 7.7 % 2.0 % Customer Transactions 2.8 % .3 % Value of the Average Transaction 4.9 % 1.7 % Page 19 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Gross Profit Gross profit increased $290.8 million, or 21.7%, in fiscal 2002 to $1,631.9 million from $1,341.1 million in fiscal 2001. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 42.2% in fiscal 2002 compared to 39.1% in the previous year. Of the 310 basis point improvement in the gross profit percentage, 180 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining 130 basis points of increase in the gross profit percentage was primarily due to improvements in initial markup due to opportunistic buying conditions across most merchandise categories, partially offset by promotional markdowns taken to clear seasonal inventory such as Christmas decorative merchandise. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $116.9 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,485.3 million from $1,368.4 million in fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased to 38.4% in fiscal 2002 from 39.9% in fiscal 2001. Of the 150 basis point improvement in the selling and administrative expense rate, 110 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves. The remaining 40 basis points of rate improvement in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to improving productivity in distribution, transportation, and store payroll, partially offset by the negative impact of increased insurance costs, as well as accelerating comparable sales on an expense base of which a large portion is fixed. The $116.9 million increase in selling and administrative spending was primarily driven by an increase in the number of stores, additional variable costs associated with the higher levels of sales (primarily store payroll, incentive compensation, distribution and transportation costs), investment in strategic repositioning initiatives, and insurance expense. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), decreased as a percentage of sales 60 basis points when compared to fiscal 2001. The reduction in warehousing and distribution costs as a percentage of sales is primarily due to productivity improvements and the leveraging of costs over a higher sales base. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, was $20.1 million for fiscal 2002 compared to $20.2 million for fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, interest expense for the year declined slightly compared to fiscal 2001. The fiscal 2002 interest primarily relates to the Companys senior notes and the amortization of debt issuance costs. The decrease in interest expense over fiscal 2001 is primarily due to lower average borrowings under the Companys senior revolving credit agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement). This decrease was partially offset by fiscal 2001 expense being favorably impacted in the first and second quarters by the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Additionally, the senior notes, which carry a higher Page 20 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) interest rate than the variable priced Revolving Credit Agreement, were not in place until the second quarter of fiscal 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2002 and 2001. FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001 from $3,277.1 million for fiscal 2000, an increase of $156.2 million, or 4.8%. This increase was attributable to sales from 78 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 33 stores, and a comparable store sales increase of 2.0%. Customer transactions increased 0.3% and the value of the average basket increased 1.7%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2001 may have resulted from several factors such as increased television advertising which raised the Companys total television coverage from 30% of net sales to 52% of net sales, the successful re grand opening of 205 conversion stores, and the introduction of furniture departments in 148 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, furniture, home dcor, seasonal, and consumables drove sales growth with positive comparable store sales increases. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 2, 2002 February 3, 2001 Comparable Store Sales 2.0 % 3.7 % Customer Transactions .3 % (2.1 %) Value of the Average Transaction 1.7 % 5.8 % Gross Profit Gross profit decreased $44.6 million, or 3.2%, in fiscal 2001 to $1,341.1 million from $1,385.7 million in fiscal 2000. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 39.1% in fiscal 2001 compared to 42.3% in the previous year. The decline in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a Page 21 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining decline in gross profit percentage was primarily due to aggressive markdowns and promotions taken to sell through seasonal merchandise and apparel. The decline was also impacted by a shift in product mix as customers increased purchases of lower margin consumable goods and reduced spending on more discretionary, higher margin items. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $168.1 million in fiscal 2001 from $1,200.3 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses were 39.9% in fiscal 2001 compared to 36.6% in fiscal 2000. The major cause of the increase as a percentage of net sales was due to a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims. The remaining selling and administrative rate increase was primarily driven by the deleveraging impact of lower comparable store sales combined with planned strategic initiatives, including increased advertising, store maintenance, and customer service investments. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), increased as a percentage of sales 50 basis points over fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily due to higher carton volume on a lower comparable sales base as well as additional overhead costs related to the new Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, decreased to $20.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $22.9 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease in interest expense reflects favorable effective interest rates, a lower average debt balance, and the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2001 and 2000. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY On May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of financial institutions, which consisted of a $358.75 million three year revolving credit facility and a $153.75 million 364 day facility, renewable annually. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced the Companys Prior Revolver which, at the time of its replacement, consisted of a $500 million revolving credit facility that was due to expire on May 6, 2002. The average interest rate under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was 3.01% and 5.41%, respectively. Also on May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Senior Note Agreement pursuant to which it completed a $204 million private placement of senior notes with maturities ranging from four to six years (Senior Notes). Page 22 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Principal maturities of long term debt for the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2003 $ 2004 $ 2005 $ 174 million 2006 $ 15 million 2007 $ 15 million The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. Both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, both the Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement were amended to exclude the non cash 2001 fourth quarter charge from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002 amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates monthly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. The Company believes that the remaining $358.75 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations, existing cash balances, and the Senior Notes, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flow from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital at February 1, 2003, was $658.3 million and net cash provided by operations was $218.2 million for the fiscal year then ended. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at February 1, 2003. At such date, the Company was contingently liable for outstanding letters of credit totaling $32.5 million and had $143.8 million of invested funds. The Company received federal tax refunds of approximately $62 million in fiscal 2002 and $73.2 million in fiscal 2001 from the utilization of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards primarily relating to the divestiture of the KB Toy Division. During fiscal 2002, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $17 million and peak borrowings of $93.5 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $34.2 million during fiscal 2002. At the point of its peak borrowing, the Company had $188.8 million of unused availability under its borrowing base formula. Page 23 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The third component of the charge pertained to inventory related costs that had not been allocated to the cost of merchandise in the Companys detailed inventory stock ledger and, accordingly, were not being fully allocated to cost of goods sold. The Company identified this issue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 as a result of the conversion to the new SKU based systems, resulting in a $16.7 million (after tax) charge. The fourth and final component of the charge related to insurance reserves. At the end of fiscal 2001, the Company analyzed its insurance reserve accounts and implemented a new methodology that provided better actuarial estimates of future claims. This new methodology, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims, resulted in a $12.6 million (after tax) charge to increase the Companys insurance reserves. This charge consisted of two elements: the first related to the adjustment of reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toy Division, which resulted in $8.5 million (after tax) income from discontinued operations, and the second element of the charge was $21.1 million (after tax) to increase reserves related to continuing operations. FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,868.5 million for fiscal 2002 from $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001, an increase of $435.2 million, or 12.7%. This increase resulted primarily from a comparable stores sales increase of 7.7%, with the remaining 5.0% growth driven primarily by sales from 87 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 42 stores. The Company attributes its comparable store sales increase of 7.7% to an increase in the dollar value of the average transaction of 4.9% and an increase in the number of customer transactions of 2.8%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2002 may have resulted from several factors such as more reliable in stock levels of consumables products, more productive advertising circulars, increased television advertising spending, the successful re grand opening of 434 conversion stores since March 2001, and the introduction of furniture departments in 128 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, sales growth was broad based with positive comparable store sales increases across most major categories and strong gains in domestics, furniture, hardlines, consumables, toys, and home dcor. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 1, 2003 February 2, 2002 Comparable Store Sales 7.7 % 2.0 % Customer Transactions 2.8 % .3 % Value of the Average Transaction 4.9 % 1.7 % Page 19 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Gross Profit Gross profit increased $290.8 million, or 21.7%, in fiscal 2002 to $1,631.9 million from $1,341.1 million in fiscal 2001. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 42.2% in fiscal 2002 compared to 39.1% in the previous year. Of the 310 basis point improvement in the gross profit percentage, 180 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining 130 basis points of increase in the gross profit percentage was primarily due to improvements in initial markup due to opportunistic buying conditions across most merchandise categories, partially offset by promotional markdowns taken to clear seasonal inventory such as Christmas decorative merchandise. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $116.9 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,485.3 million from $1,368.4 million in fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased to 38.4% in fiscal 2002 from 39.9% in fiscal 2001. Of the 150 basis point improvement in the selling and administrative expense rate, 110 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves. The remaining 40 basis points of rate improvement in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to improving productivity in distribution, transportation, and store payroll, partially offset by the negative impact of increased insurance costs, as well as accelerating comparable sales on an expense base of which a large portion is fixed. The $116.9 million increase in selling and administrative spending was primarily driven by an increase in the number of stores, additional variable costs associated with the higher levels of sales (primarily store payroll, incentive compensation, distribution and transportation costs), investment in strategic repositioning initiatives, and insurance expense. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), decreased as a percentage of sales 60 basis points when compared to fiscal 2001. The reduction in warehousing and distribution costs as a percentage of sales is primarily due to productivity improvements and the leveraging of costs over a higher sales base. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, was $20.1 million for fiscal 2002 compared to $20.2 million for fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, interest expense for the year declined slightly compared to fiscal 2001. The fiscal 2002 interest primarily relates to the Companys senior notes and the amortization of debt issuance costs. The decrease in interest expense over fiscal 2001 is primarily due to lower average borrowings under the Companys senior revolving credit agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement). This decrease was partially offset by fiscal 2001 expense being favorably impacted in the first and second quarters by the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Additionally, the senior notes, which carry a higher Page 20 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) interest rate than the variable priced Revolving Credit Agreement, were not in place until the second quarter of fiscal 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2002 and 2001. FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001 from $3,277.1 million for fiscal 2000, an increase of $156.2 million, or 4.8%. This increase was attributable to sales from 78 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 33 stores, and a comparable store sales increase of 2.0%. Customer transactions increased 0.3% and the value of the average basket increased 1.7%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2001 may have resulted from several factors such as increased television advertising which raised the Companys total television coverage from 30% of net sales to 52% of net sales, the successful re grand opening of 205 conversion stores, and the introduction of furniture departments in 148 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, furniture, home dcor, seasonal, and consumables drove sales growth with positive comparable store sales increases. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 2, 2002 February 3, 2001 Comparable Store Sales 2.0 % 3.7 % Customer Transactions .3 % (2.1 %) Value of the Average Transaction 1.7 % 5.8 % Gross Profit Gross profit decreased $44.6 million, or 3.2%, in fiscal 2001 to $1,341.1 million from $1,385.7 million in fiscal 2000. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 39.1% in fiscal 2001 compared to 42.3% in the previous year. The decline in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a Page 21 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining decline in gross profit percentage was primarily due to aggressive markdowns and promotions taken to sell through seasonal merchandise and apparel. The decline was also impacted by a shift in product mix as customers increased purchases of lower margin consumable goods and reduced spending on more discretionary, higher margin items. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $168.1 million in fiscal 2001 from $1,200.3 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses were 39.9% in fiscal 2001 compared to 36.6% in fiscal 2000. The major cause of the increase as a percentage of net sales was due to a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims. The remaining selling and administrative rate increase was primarily driven by the deleveraging impact of lower comparable store sales combined with planned strategic initiatives, including increased advertising, store maintenance, and customer service investments. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), increased as a percentage of sales 50 basis points over fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily due to higher carton volume on a lower comparable sales base as well as additional overhead costs related to the new Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, decreased to $20.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $22.9 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease in interest expense reflects favorable effective interest rates, a lower average debt balance, and the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2001 and 2000. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY On May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of financial institutions, which consisted of a $358.75 million three year revolving credit facility and a $153.75 million 364 day facility, renewable annually. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced the Companys Prior Revolver which, at the time of its replacement, consisted of a $500 million revolving credit facility that was due to expire on May 6, 2002. The average interest rate under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was 3.01% and 5.41%, respectively. Also on May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Senior Note Agreement pursuant to which it completed a $204 million private placement of senior notes with maturities ranging from four to six years (Senior Notes). Page 22 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Principal maturities of long term debt for the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2003 $ 2004 $ 2005 $ 174 million 2006 $ 15 million 2007 $ 15 million The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. Both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, both the Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement were amended to exclude the non cash 2001 fourth quarter charge from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002 amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates monthly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. The Company believes that the remaining $358.75 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations, existing cash balances, and the Senior Notes, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flow from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital at February 1, 2003, was $658.3 million and net cash provided by operations was $218.2 million for the fiscal year then ended. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at February 1, 2003. At such date, the Company was contingently liable for outstanding letters of credit totaling $32.5 million and had $143.8 million of invested funds. The Company received federal tax refunds of approximately $62 million in fiscal 2002 and $73.2 million in fiscal 2001 from the utilization of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards primarily relating to the divestiture of the KB Toy Division. During fiscal 2002, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $17 million and peak borrowings of $93.5 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $34.2 million during fiscal 2002. At the point of its peak borrowing, the Company had $188.8 million of unused availability under its borrowing base formula. Page 23 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Gross Profit Gross profit increased $290.8 million, or 21.7%, in fiscal 2002 to $1,631.9 million from $1,341.1 million in fiscal 2001. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 42.2% in fiscal 2002 compared to 39.1% in the previous year. Of the 310 basis point improvement in the gross profit percentage, 180 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining 130 basis points of increase in the gross profit percentage was primarily due to improvements in initial markup due to opportunistic buying conditions across most merchandise categories, partially offset by promotional markdowns taken to clear seasonal inventory such as Christmas decorative merchandise. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $116.9 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,485.3 million from $1,368.4 million in fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased to 38.4% in fiscal 2002 from 39.9% in fiscal 2001. Of the 150 basis point improvement in the selling and administrative expense rate, 110 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves. The remaining 40 basis points of rate improvement in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to improving productivity in distribution, transportation, and store payroll, partially offset by the negative impact of increased insurance costs, as well as accelerating comparable sales on an expense base of which a large portion is fixed. The $116.9 million increase in selling and administrative spending was primarily driven by an increase in the number of stores, additional variable costs associated with the higher levels of sales (primarily store payroll, incentive compensation, distribution and transportation costs), investment in strategic repositioning initiatives, and insurance expense. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), decreased as a percentage of sales 60 basis points when compared to fiscal 2001. The reduction in warehousing and distribution costs as a percentage of sales is primarily due to productivity improvements and the leveraging of costs over a higher sales base. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, was $20.1 million for fiscal 2002 compared to $20.2 million for fiscal 2001. As a percentage of net sales, interest expense for the year declined slightly compared to fiscal 2001. The fiscal 2002 interest primarily relates to the Companys senior notes and the amortization of debt issuance costs. The decrease in interest expense over fiscal 2001 is primarily due to lower average borrowings under the Companys senior revolving credit agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement). This decrease was partially offset by fiscal 2001 expense being favorably impacted in the first and second quarters by the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Additionally, the senior notes, which carry a higher Page 20 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) interest rate than the variable priced Revolving Credit Agreement, were not in place until the second quarter of fiscal 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2002 and 2001. FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001 from $3,277.1 million for fiscal 2000, an increase of $156.2 million, or 4.8%. This increase was attributable to sales from 78 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 33 stores, and a comparable store sales increase of 2.0%. Customer transactions increased 0.3% and the value of the average basket increased 1.7%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2001 may have resulted from several factors such as increased television advertising which raised the Companys total television coverage from 30% of net sales to 52% of net sales, the successful re grand opening of 205 conversion stores, and the introduction of furniture departments in 148 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, furniture, home dcor, seasonal, and consumables drove sales growth with positive comparable store sales increases. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 2, 2002 February 3, 2001 Comparable Store Sales 2.0 % 3.7 % Customer Transactions .3 % (2.1 %) Value of the Average Transaction 1.7 % 5.8 % Gross Profit Gross profit decreased $44.6 million, or 3.2%, in fiscal 2001 to $1,341.1 million from $1,385.7 million in fiscal 2000. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 39.1% in fiscal 2001 compared to 42.3% in the previous year. The decline in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a Page 21 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining decline in gross profit percentage was primarily due to aggressive markdowns and promotions taken to sell through seasonal merchandise and apparel. The decline was also impacted by a shift in product mix as customers increased purchases of lower margin consumable goods and reduced spending on more discretionary, higher margin items. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $168.1 million in fiscal 2001 from $1,200.3 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses were 39.9% in fiscal 2001 compared to 36.6% in fiscal 2000. The major cause of the increase as a percentage of net sales was due to a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims. The remaining selling and administrative rate increase was primarily driven by the deleveraging impact of lower comparable store sales combined with planned strategic initiatives, including increased advertising, store maintenance, and customer service investments. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), increased as a percentage of sales 50 basis points over fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily due to higher carton volume on a lower comparable sales base as well as additional overhead costs related to the new Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, decreased to $20.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $22.9 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease in interest expense reflects favorable effective interest rates, a lower average debt balance, and the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2001 and 2000. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY On May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of financial institutions, which consisted of a $358.75 million three year revolving credit facility and a $153.75 million 364 day facility, renewable annually. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced the Companys Prior Revolver which, at the time of its replacement, consisted of a $500 million revolving credit facility that was due to expire on May 6, 2002. The average interest rate under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was 3.01% and 5.41%, respectively. Also on May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Senior Note Agreement pursuant to which it completed a $204 million private placement of senior notes with maturities ranging from four to six years (Senior Notes). Page 22 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Principal maturities of long term debt for the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2003 $ 2004 $ 2005 $ 174 million 2006 $ 15 million 2007 $ 15 million The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. Both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, both the Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement were amended to exclude the non cash 2001 fourth quarter charge from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002 amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates monthly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. The Company believes that the remaining $358.75 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations, existing cash balances, and the Senior Notes, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flow from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital at February 1, 2003, was $658.3 million and net cash provided by operations was $218.2 million for the fiscal year then ended. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at February 1, 2003. At such date, the Company was contingently liable for outstanding letters of credit totaling $32.5 million and had $143.8 million of invested funds. The Company received federal tax refunds of approximately $62 million in fiscal 2002 and $73.2 million in fiscal 2001 from the utilization of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards primarily relating to the divestiture of the KB Toy Division. During fiscal 2002, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $17 million and peak borrowings of $93.5 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $34.2 million during fiscal 2002. At the point of its peak borrowing, the Company had $188.8 million of unused availability under its borrowing base formula. Page 23 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) interest rate than the variable priced Revolving Credit Agreement, were not in place until the second quarter of fiscal 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2002 and 2001. FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,433.3 million for fiscal 2001 from $3,277.1 million for fiscal 2000, an increase of $156.2 million, or 4.8%. This increase was attributable to sales from 78 new stores, offset in part by the closing of 33 stores, and a comparable store sales increase of 2.0%. Customer transactions increased 0.3% and the value of the average basket increased 1.7%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average transaction for fiscal 2001 may have resulted from several factors such as increased television advertising which raised the Companys total television coverage from 30% of net sales to 52% of net sales, the successful re grand opening of 205 conversion stores, and the introduction of furniture departments in 148 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, furniture, home dcor, seasonal, and consumables drove sales growth with positive comparable store sales increases. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average transaction. The following table summarizes comparable store sales as well as growth in customer transactions and in the value of the average transaction: Fiscal Year Ended February 2, 2002 February 3, 2001 Comparable Store Sales 2.0 % 3.7 % Customer Transactions .3 % (2.1 %) Value of the Average Transaction 1.7 % 5.8 % Gross Profit Gross profit decreased $44.6 million, or 3.2%, in fiscal 2001 to $1,341.1 million from $1,385.7 million in fiscal 2000. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 39.1% in fiscal 2001 compared to 42.3% in the previous year. The decline in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a non cash fourth quarter charge of $37.8 million after tax ($62.4 million before tax). This charge represented the cost to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain categories, adjustments to the estimated capitalized import freight balances, and inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multi year conversion to a Page 21 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining decline in gross profit percentage was primarily due to aggressive markdowns and promotions taken to sell through seasonal merchandise and apparel. The decline was also impacted by a shift in product mix as customers increased purchases of lower margin consumable goods and reduced spending on more discretionary, higher margin items. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $168.1 million in fiscal 2001 from $1,200.3 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses were 39.9% in fiscal 2001 compared to 36.6% in fiscal 2000. The major cause of the increase as a percentage of net sales was due to a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims. The remaining selling and administrative rate increase was primarily driven by the deleveraging impact of lower comparable store sales combined with planned strategic initiatives, including increased advertising, store maintenance, and customer service investments. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), increased as a percentage of sales 50 basis points over fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily due to higher carton volume on a lower comparable sales base as well as additional overhead costs related to the new Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, decreased to $20.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $22.9 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease in interest expense reflects favorable effective interest rates, a lower average debt balance, and the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2001 and 2000. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY On May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of financial institutions, which consisted of a $358.75 million three year revolving credit facility and a $153.75 million 364 day facility, renewable annually. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced the Companys Prior Revolver which, at the time of its replacement, consisted of a $500 million revolving credit facility that was due to expire on May 6, 2002. The average interest rate under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was 3.01% and 5.41%, respectively. Also on May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Senior Note Agreement pursuant to which it completed a $204 million private placement of senior notes with maturities ranging from four to six years (Senior Notes). Page 22 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Principal maturities of long term debt for the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2003 $ 2004 $ 2005 $ 174 million 2006 $ 15 million 2007 $ 15 million The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. Both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, both the Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement were amended to exclude the non cash 2001 fourth quarter charge from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002 amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates monthly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. The Company believes that the remaining $358.75 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations, existing cash balances, and the Senior Notes, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flow from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital at February 1, 2003, was $658.3 million and net cash provided by operations was $218.2 million for the fiscal year then ended. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at February 1, 2003. At such date, the Company was contingently liable for outstanding letters of credit totaling $32.5 million and had $143.8 million of invested funds. The Company received federal tax refunds of approximately $62 million in fiscal 2002 and $73.2 million in fiscal 2001 from the utilization of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards primarily relating to the divestiture of the KB Toy Division. During fiscal 2002, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $17 million and peak borrowings of $93.5 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $34.2 million during fiscal 2002. At the point of its peak borrowing, the Company had $188.8 million of unused availability under its borrowing base formula. Page 23 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) detailed SKU level inventory management system. The remaining decline in gross profit percentage was primarily due to aggressive markdowns and promotions taken to sell through seasonal merchandise and apparel. The decline was also impacted by a shift in product mix as customers increased purchases of lower margin consumable goods and reduced spending on more discretionary, higher margin items. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $168.1 million in fiscal 2001 from $1,200.3 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses were 39.9% in fiscal 2001 compared to 36.6% in fiscal 2000. The major cause of the increase as a percentage of net sales was due to a $21.1 million after tax ($34.9 million before tax) non cash fourth quarter charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves, combined with an upward trend in fiscal 2001 claims. The remaining selling and administrative rate increase was primarily driven by the deleveraging impact of lower comparable store sales combined with planned strategic initiatives, including increased advertising, store maintenance, and customer service investments. Warehousing and distribution costs, which are included in Selling and Administrative Expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), increased as a percentage of sales 50 basis points over fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily due to higher carton volume on a lower comparable sales base as well as additional overhead costs related to the new Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, decreased to $20.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $22.9 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease in interest expense reflects favorable effective interest rates, a lower average debt balance, and the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania distribution center. Income Taxes The effective tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in both fiscal 2001 and 2000. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY On May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of financial institutions, which consisted of a $358.75 million three year revolving credit facility and a $153.75 million 364 day facility, renewable annually. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced the Companys Prior Revolver which, at the time of its replacement, consisted of a $500 million revolving credit facility that was due to expire on May 6, 2002. The average interest rate under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was 3.01% and 5.41%, respectively. Also on May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Senior Note Agreement pursuant to which it completed a $204 million private placement of senior notes with maturities ranging from four to six years (Senior Notes). Page 22 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Principal maturities of long term debt for the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2003 $ 2004 $ 2005 $ 174 million 2006 $ 15 million 2007 $ 15 million The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. Both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, both the Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement were amended to exclude the non cash 2001 fourth quarter charge from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002 amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates monthly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. The Company believes that the remaining $358.75 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations, existing cash balances, and the Senior Notes, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flow from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital at February 1, 2003, was $658.3 million and net cash provided by operations was $218.2 million for the fiscal year then ended. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at February 1, 2003. At such date, the Company was contingently liable for outstanding letters of credit totaling $32.5 million and had $143.8 million of invested funds. The Company received federal tax refunds of approximately $62 million in fiscal 2002 and $73.2 million in fiscal 2001 from the utilization of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards primarily relating to the divestiture of the KB Toy Division. During fiscal 2002, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $17 million and peak borrowings of $93.5 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $34.2 million during fiscal 2002. At the point of its peak borrowing, the Company had $188.8 million of unused availability under its borrowing base formula. Page 23 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Principal maturities of long term debt for the next five fiscal years are as follows: 2003 $ 2004 $ 2005 $ 174 million 2006 $ 15 million 2007 $ 15 million The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. Both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, both the Revolving Credit Agreement and Senior Note Agreement were amended to exclude the non cash 2001 fourth quarter charge from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002 amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for both the Revolving Credit and Senior Note Agreements, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates monthly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. The Company believes that the remaining $358.75 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations, existing cash balances, and the Senior Notes, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flow from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital at February 1, 2003, was $658.3 million and net cash provided by operations was $218.2 million for the fiscal year then ended. The Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at February 1, 2003. At such date, the Company was contingently liable for outstanding letters of credit totaling $32.5 million and had $143.8 million of invested funds. The Company received federal tax refunds of approximately $62 million in fiscal 2002 and $73.2 million in fiscal 2001 from the utilization of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards primarily relating to the divestiture of the KB Toy Division. During fiscal 2002, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $17 million and peak borrowings of $93.5 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $34.2 million during fiscal 2002. At the point of its peak borrowing, the Company had $188.8 million of unused availability under its borrowing base formula. Page 23 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital expenditures were $102.1 million in fiscal 2002, $107.6 million in fiscal 2001, and $114.8 million in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the commencement of the construction of a new distribution center in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings, additional distribution center capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania, investments in strategic initiatives in conjunction with the Companys strategic repositioning, and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio distribution center. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2000 were primarily driven by new store openings and additional distribution center capacity. Capital expenditure requirements in 2003 are anticipated to be approximately $160 $165 million, primarily to complete the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, invest in new stores and store expansions, and remodel approximately 213 existing Big Lots stores. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis, primarily on the retail method. Certain assumptions are made to properly record inventory at the lower of cost or market, and these assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. The Companys assumptions include significant judgments and estimates made by management including merchandise markup, markdowns, shrinkage, and the aging of inventories, each of which could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as the resulting gross margins. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buydown agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Where there is an indication of impairment, the Company evaluates the fair value and future benefits of the related long lived asset, and the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows from the related asset is calculated and compared to the carrying value on the Companys books. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Page 24 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company has generated deferred tax assets or liabilities due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company records liabilities relating to income taxes utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expenses and obligations. Such assumptions include the discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels, and the expected long term rate of return on the related assets. Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns and inventory shortage, as well as cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and the other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross margins may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), warehousing and distribution costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a Page 25 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Concluded) materially different result. See the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long Term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal 2003 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse affect on the Companys financial condition. The Company continues to believe that it has, or if necessary has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations of the Company. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Page 26 
 
