Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those statements are identified as forward looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the statement. The Company wishes to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Act. This report, as well as other verbal or written statements or reports made by or on the behalf of the Company, may contain or may incorporate material by reference which includes forward looking statements within the meaning of the Act. By their nature, all forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Statements, other than those based on historical facts, which address activities, events, or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including such things as future capital expenditures (including the amount and nature thereof), business strategy, expansion and growth of the Companys business and operations, future earnings, store openings and new market entries, anticipated inventory turn, and other similar matters, as well as statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results or events, are forward looking statements, which are based upon a number of assumptions concerning future conditions that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. The words believe, anticipate, project, plan, expect, estimate, objective, forecast, goal, intend, will, and similar expressions generally identify forward looking statements. The forward looking statements are and will be based upon managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in forward looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of its knowledge of its business, actual events and results may materially differ from anticipated results described in such statements. The Companys ability to achieve the results contemplated by forward looking statements are subject to a number of factors, any one, or a combination of, which could materially affect the Companys business, financial condition, or results of operations. These factors may include, but are not limited to: the Companys ability to source and purchase merchandise on favorable terms; the ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; the Companys ability to establish effective advertising, marketing, and promotional programs; economic and weather conditions which affect buying patterns of the Companys customers; changes in consumer spending and consumer debt levels; the Companys ability to anticipate buying patterns and implement appropriate inventory strategies; continued availability of capital and financing on favorable terms; competitive pressures and pricing pressures, including competition from other retailers; the Companys ability to comply with the terms of its credit facilities (or obtain waivers for non compliance); interest rate fluctuations and changes in the Companys credit rating; the creditworthiness of the purchaser of the Companys former KB Toys business; the Companys indemnification and guarantee obligations with respect to more than 380 KB Toys store leases and other real property, some or all of which may be rejected or materially modified in connection with the pending KB Toys bankruptcy proceedings, as well as other potential liabilities arising out of the KB Toys bankruptcy; litigation risks and changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and tax laws; transportation and distribution delays or interruptions that adversely impact the Companys ability to receive and or distribute inventory; the impact on transportation costs from the driver hours of service regulations adopted by the Federal Motor Carriers Safety Administration that became effective in January 2004; the effect of fuel price fluctuations on the Companys transportation costs; interruptions in suppliers businesses; the Companys ability to achieve cost efficiencies and other benefits from various operational initiatives and 14 Table of Contents technological enhancements; the costs, interruptions, and problems associated with the implementation of, or failure to implement, new or upgraded systems and technology; the effect of international freight rates on the Companys profitability; delays and costs associated with building, opening, and modifying the Companys distribution centers; the Companys ability to secure suitable new store locations under favorable lease terms; the Companys ability to successfully enter new markets; delays associated with constructing, opening, and operating new stores; the Companys ability to attract and retain suitable employees; and other risks described from time to time in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its press releases, and in other communications. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurances that the Company has correctly and completely identified, assessed, and accounted for all factors that do or may affect its business, financial condition, or results of operations. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that it believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the Company. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the Companys business, financial condition, and results of operations. Consequently, all of the forward looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or that they will have the expected effects on the Company or its business or operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements contained in this report, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures the Company may make on related subjects in its public announcements and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. OVERVIEW The discussion and analysis presented below should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere herein. Business Operations The Company is the nations largest broadline closeout retailer. At January 31, 2004, the Company operated a total of 1,430 stores, 1,385 stores under the name Big Lots and 45 stores under the name Big Lots Furniture. The Companys goal is to build upon its leadership position in broadline closeout retailing by expanding its market presence in both existing and new markets. The Company believes that the combination of its strengths make it a low cost value retailer well positioned for continued growth. The Companys Web site is located at www.biglots.com. Wholesale operations are conducted through Big Lots Wholesale, Consolidated International, Wisconsin Toy, and with online purchasing at www.biglotswholesale.com. The contents of the Companys Web sites are not part of this report. 15 Table of Contents The following table compares components of the Consolidated Statements of Operations of the Company as a percentage of net sales. Results for fiscal years 2003 and 2001 include the impact of a net charge of $4.9 million (net of tax) and a $50.4 million (net of tax) charge, respectively (see KB Toys Matters and Litigation Charges for fiscal year 2003, and 2001 Charge for fiscal year 2001 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Fiscal Year 2003 2002 2001 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross profit 41.8 42.2 39.1 Selling and administrative expenses 38.7 38.4 39.9 Operating profit (loss) 3.1 3.8 (.8 ) Interest expense .4 .5 .6 Interest income (.0 ) (.0 ) (.0 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 2.8 3.3 (1.4 ) Income tax expense (benefit) .6 1.3 (.6 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 2.2 2.0 (.8 ) (Loss) income from discontinued operations (.2 ) .2 Net income (loss) 1.9 % 2.0 % (.6 )% The Company has historically experienced, and expects to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations, with a significant percentage of its net sales and operating profit being realized in the fourth fiscal quarter. In addition, the Companys quarterly results can be affected by the timing of new store openings and store closings, the amount of sales contributed by new and existing stores, as well as the timing of store remodels, television and circular advertising, and the timing of certain holidays. Furthermore, in anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth fiscal quarter, the Company purchases substantial amounts of inventory during the third fiscal quarter and hires a significant number of temporary employees to increase store staffing during the fourth fiscal quarter. Store Remodels and Conversions In conjunction with the Companys initiative to change its name to Big Lots, Inc., and operate under one brand name, 434 stores were converted during fiscal years 2001 and 2002, including 380 stores previously operating under the names Odd Lots, Mac Frugals, and Pic N Save, and 54 existing Big Lots stores located in conversion markets. As of the end of fiscal year 2002, all stores were operating under the Big Lots name. In connection with this conversion and remodeling process, the Company made certain improvements to the converted sites. The improvements varied by location and included, among other things, painting, lighting retrofits, new signage (interior and exterior) and advertising, new flooring, and updated restrooms. The cost of the improvements for conversion and remodeled stores was between $0.1 million and $0.2 million per store during fiscal years 2001 through 2003. The Company believes that Big Lots is its most recognizable brand name, and this change offered numerous opportunities to increase brand awareness among customers, suppliers, investors, and the general public. The Company believes the conversion also allowed it to leverage television advertising and other expenses. In August 2003, the Company finished the fiscal year 2003 remodel program by completing 211 stores. These remodels included similar improvements as those made to the conversion stores described above and, in addition, included new fixtures and a new merchandise layout. Approximately 70% of the Companys stores have either been remodeled in the past two and one half years or are new stores opened in the past five years, and are consistent with current upgraded store standards. 16 Table of Contents In fiscal year 2004, the Company plans to remodel 68 stores in 12 markets. Additionally, the Company will add a closeout swing area to another 62 stores in the same 12 markets. The closeout swing area is located at the front of the store and features the newest and most compelling brand name closeout merchandise the store has to offer. The selection can vary by store, and items normally only last a few days before selling out or moving to their natural location in the store. The Company expects store remodeling costs, on a per store basis, in fiscal year 2004 to be similar to prior year costs. Furniture and Distribution Facility Growth The Companys furniture category has grown over the last 8 years to represent 12.1% of the Companys net sales in fiscal year 2003. In an effort to further expand this categorys offering nationally, the Company expects to lease a furniture distribution facility on the West Coast in fiscal year 2004. During fiscal year 2004, the Company expects to add a net of 219 furniture departments, ending the fiscal year with furniture departments in 74% of the closeout stores, up from 61% at the close of fiscal year 2003. Additionally, the Company expects to expand existing furniture departments in approximately 147 stores where hanging apparel will be removed. Currently, approximately 416 stores have hanging apparel departments, and the Company will be exiting this category in the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2004. Finally, construction of the Companys fifth distribution facility located in Durant, Oklahoma, was substantially completed in fiscal year 2003. The facility began receiving merchandise in January 2004 and is expected to ship merchandise to 120 stores beginning in April 2004. Other Matters On August 22, 2001, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had unanimously voted to redeem the preferred stock rights issued under the Companys Rights Agreement. The redemption was a direct result of the Companys redomestication into Ohio, as approved by its shareholders at the Companys 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. At the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, a non binding shareholder proposal passed seeking the termination of the Companys Rights Agreement. The Board of Directors believed that the statutory protections offered by the Companys new state of incorporation provided adequate safeguards to permit the Board of Directors and the Companys shareholders to fully and fairly evaluate any takeover offer, whether coercive or not. Accordingly, the Board of Directors found it to be in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to redeem the preferred stock rights issued under the Companys Rights Agreement. KB TOYS MATTERS AND LITIGATION CHARGES On January 14, 2004, KB Acquisition Corporation and affiliated entities (collectively, KB) filed for bankruptcy protection pursuant to Chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code. KB acquired the KB Toys business from the Company pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of December 7, 2000, (the KB Stock Purchase Agreement). The Company has analyzed the information currently available regarding the effect of KBs bankruptcy filing on the various, continuing rights and obligations of the parties to the KB Stock Purchase Agreement, including: a) an outstanding note from Havens Corners Corporation, a subsidiary of KB Acquisition Corporation and a party to the bankruptcy proceedings (HCC), to the Company, and an accompanying warrant to acquire common stock of KB Holdings, Inc., the ultimate parent of KB (KB Holdings); b) the status of KBs indemnification obligations to the Company with respect to guarantees of KB store leases by the Company and guarantees (relating to lease and mortgage obligations) for which the Company has indemnification obligations arising out of its 1996 acquisition of the KB Toys business; and c) the status of the Companys and KBs other indemnification obligations to each other with respect to general liability claims, representations and warranties, litigation, and other payment obligations pursuant to the KB Stock Purchase Agreement. When and to the extent the Company believes that a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, the Company will record a liability. As discussed below, the Company recorded a $3.7 million charge (net of tax) in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003 related to the estimated impact of the KB bankruptcy comprised of a $10.5 million benefit (net of tax) related to the partial charge off of the HCC Note (defined below) and KB warrant and a $14.3 million (net of tax) charge related to KB store lease guarantee obligations. 17 Table of Contents In connection with the sale of the KB Toys business, the Company received $258 million in cash and a 10 year note from HCC in the aggregate principal amount of $45 million. This note bears interest, on an in kind basis, at the rate of 8% per annum (principal and interest together known as the HCC Note). The Company also received a warrant to acquire up to 2.5% of the common stock of KB Holdings for a stated price per share. At the time of the sale (the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2000), the Company evaluated the fair value of the HCC Note received as consideration in the transaction and recorded the HCC Note at its then estimated fair value of $13 million. The estimated fair value of the HCC Note was based on several factors including fair market evaluations obtained from independent financial advisors at the time of the sale, the Companys knowledge of the underlying KB Toys business and industry, and the risks inherent in receiving no cash payments until the HCC Note matured in 2010. During fiscal year 2002 and until KBs bankruptcy filing, the Company recorded the interest earned and accretion of the discount utilizing the effective interest rate method and provided necessary reserves against such amounts as a result of its evaluations of the carrying value of the HCC Note. As of February 1, 2003, and February 2, 2002, the carrying value of the HCC Note was $16 million. For tax purposes, the HCC Note was originally recorded at its face value of $45 million, and the Company incurred tax liability on the interest, which accrued but was not payable. This resulted in the HCC Note having a tax basis that was greater than the carrying value on the Companys books. The HCC Note became immediately due and payable at the time of KBs bankruptcy filing. The Company engaged an independent investment advisory firm to assist the Company in estimating the fair value of the HCC Note and warrant for both book and tax purposes. As a result, the Company charged off a portion of the HCC Note and wrote down the full value of the warrant resulting in a book value of the HCC Note of $7.3 million, and accordingly recorded a net charge (before tax) to continuing operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003 in the amount of $9.6 million. In addition, as a result of the bankruptcy filing and the partial charge off, the Company recorded a tax benefit of $20.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. A substantial portion of this tax benefit reflects the charge off of the higher tax basis of the HCC Note (see the Income Taxes Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). When the Company acquired the KB Toys business from Melville Corporation (now known as CVS New York, Inc., and together with its subsidiaries CVS) in May 1996, the Company provided, among other things, an indemnity to CVS with respect to any losses resulting from KBs failure to pay all monies due and owing under any KB lease or mortgage obligation guaranteed by CVS. While the Company controlled the KB Toys business, the Company provided guarantees with respect to a limited number of additional store leases. As part of the KB sale, and in accordance with the terms of the KB Stock Purchase Agreement, KB similarly indemnified the Company with respect to all lease and mortgage obligations, including those guaranteed by CVS and those guaranteed by the Company. To the Companys knowledge, the Company had guarantee or indemnification obligations, as of January 31, 2004, with respect to: a) approximately 384 KB store leases; b) two distribution center leases; c) KBs main office building lease; and d) a first mortgage on a distribution center located in Pittsfield, Massachusetts (the Pittsfield DC), owned by Kay Bee Toy Hobby Shops, Inc., an affiliate of KB Acquisition Corporation and a party to the bankruptcy proceedings. In connection with the bankruptcy, KB is required to continue to make lease payments with respect to all leases except those that it rejects. If KB rejects a lease that has been guaranteed by the Company or by CVS, because KB can reject its indemnification obligations to the Company, the Company could be liable for all or a portion of the lease obligations with respect to the rejected leases, subject to many factors, including the landlords duty to mitigate, the validity of the applicable guarantee and the like. On February 25, 2004, the Company announced that KB had rejected 389 store leases, of which the Company believes it has guarantee or indemnification obligations relating to approximately 90 store leases affected by KBs rejections. The Company engaged an independent real estate valuation firm to assist it in the analysis of the Companys potential liability with respect to the 90 guaranteed store leases. Based upon analysis of the information currently available, the Company recorded a charge to discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003 in the amount of $14.3 million (net of a $9.7 million tax benefit) to reflect its best estimate of this loss contingency. The Company intends to take an active role in limiting its potential liability with respect to KB store lease obligations. The Company is not aware of any additional rejections of the remaining 294 store leases guaranteed by the Company, or a rejection of the two distribution center leases or the lease on KBs main office building. It is the Companys belief that both distribution centers have been sublet by KB to unaffiliated third parties and that KB intends to retain the lease on its main office building. Nevertheless, the Company is unable to 18 Table of Contents determine at this time whether any additional liability will result from the remaining leases guaranteed by the Company or CVS that have not yet been rejected by KB. If additional leases are rejected, any related charge would be to discontinued operations. Management does not believe that such a charge would have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of continuing operations, or liquidity. On March 10, 2004, the Company announced that it had received notice of a default relating to a first mortgage on the Pittsfield DC. As a result of KBs bankruptcy filing, the mortgage holder declared an event of default and claimed that the loan had become immediately due and payable (the DC Note). The Company was informed that, as of January 14, 2004, the DC Note had an outstanding principal amount of approximately $6.3 million plus accrued interest of approximately $21,000. Additionally, the mortgage holder has claimed that a make whole premium of approximately $1.5 million is also due and payable. The Company is reviewing its rights and obligations regarding the premium. The Company engaged an independent real estate valuation firm to assist it in the analysis of the Companys potential liability with respect to the DC Note. Based upon analysis of the information currently available, the Company believes that the fair market value of the Pittsfield DC is between $6.2 million and $6.8 million. The Company intends to take an active role in limiting its potential liability with respect to the DC Note. In the event the Company incurs a liability related to the Pittsfield DC, any related charge would be to discontinued operations. Management does not believe that such a charge would have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of continuing operations, or liquidity. In addition to including KBs indemnity of the Company with respect to lease and mortgage obligations, the KB Stock Purchase Agreement contains mutual indemnifications of KB by the Company and of the Company by KB. These indemnifications relate primarily to losses arising out of general liability claims, breached or inaccurate representations or warranties, shared litigation expenses, other payment obligations, and taxes. The Company continues to assess the effect of the KB bankruptcy on such mutual indemnification obligations. However, because the KB bankruptcy is in its early stages, the Company has not made any provision for loss contingencies with respect to any non lease related indemnification obligations. At this time, Management does not believe that such a charge would have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of continuing operations, or liquidity. In another KB matter unrelated to the bankruptcy proceedings mentioned above, the Company announced on August 20, 2003, that it had reached a preliminary agreement to settle a national class action lawsuit relating to certain advertising practices of KB Toys. The Court issued a final order approving the agreement during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003. The Company contributed $2.1 million toward the settlement and accordingly, a charge of $1.2 million (net of tax) was recorded to discontinued operations in the third quarter of fiscal year 2003. During fiscal year 2003, the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) concluded its field examination of the Companys consolidated income tax returns for the fiscal year 1997 through fiscal year 2000 cycle. The consolidated income tax returns for that cycle included the KB Toys business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003, the fiscal year 1997 through fiscal year 2000 IRS examination cycle was substantially resolved when the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation found no exception to the IRS field examination report (see the Income Taxes Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). The Company has also received substantial resolution with the Appeals Division of the IRS related to a KB income tax matter for fiscal year 1996 in conjunction with the Mac Frugals Bargains Close outs, Inc. appeal (see the Income Taxes Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Discontinued operations also reflect the substantial resolution and closure of tax audit activity, the closing of the statute of limitations, and changes in the expected outcome of tax contingencies related to KB state and local non income tax matters. As a result of the substantial resolution and closure of these items, the Company has reversed previously accrued income taxes of approximately $4.7 million, and sales and use taxes of approximately $1.1 million related to discontinued operations. For fiscal year 2003, the Company has recorded, related to KB Toys matters described above, charges to discontinued operations of $9.7 million (net of tax), or $0.09 per diluted share, and a benefit to continuing operations of $10.5 million (net of tax), or $0.09 per diluted share. The KB Toys charges recorded to discontinued operations represented: a) a $14.3 million (net of tax) charge related to KB store lease guarantee obligations; b) a $5.8 million (net of tax) benefit related to the resolution and closure of KB state and local tax matters; and c) a $1.2 million (net of tax) charge related to certain advertising practices of KB Toys. In another KB matter, the Company recorded to continuing operations a $10.5 19 Table of Contents million (net of tax) benefit related to the partial charge off of the HCC Note and the write off of the KB warrant. Including the charge of $5.7 million (net of tax) for the Companys two California class action lawsuits recorded to continuing operations, KB Toys matters and litigation charges totaled $4.9 million (net of tax). The Company has, as part of the KB Stock Purchase Agreement, retained the responsibility for certain KB insurance claims incurred through the date of closing of the sale on December 7, 2000. During fiscal year 2001, the Company determined that the estimate for the related insurance reserves exceeded the expected liability. Accordingly, a portion of the insurance reserves established in connection with the sale of the KB Toys business were adjusted and recorded as income from discontinued operations on the Companys Statements of Operations. This adjustment resulted in $8.5 million (net of tax) of income from discontinued operations in fiscal year 2001. The following are the components of discontinued operations: Fiscal Year 2003 2002 2001 (In thousands) (Loss) income on disposal of KB Toys business, net of income tax (benefit) expense of $(14,691), $(4,000), and $5,423 in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. $ (9,720 ) $ $ 8,480 The Company also announced on August 20, 2003, that it reached a preliminary agreement to settle the Companys two California class action lawsuits relating to the calculation of earned overtime wages for certain former and current store managers and assistant store managers in that state. Final court approval of the proposed settlement was received February 4, 2004. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003, the Company adjusted the total related charge to $5.7 million (net of tax), $0.6 million lower than its original estimate recorded during the second quarter of fiscal year 2003. The Company does not expect this settlement to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of continuing operations, or liquidity going forward. 2001 CHARGE In fiscal year 2001, the Company recorded a charge of $50.4 million (net of tax), or $0.44 per diluted share. The charge represented: a) costs to modify the Companys product assortment and exit certain merchandise categories ($6.1 million net of tax), b) adjustments to the estimated capitalized freight costs related to inbound imported inventories in response to better systems and information ($15.0 million net of tax), c) adjustments to inventory related costs that were identified as a result of the completion of a significant multiyear conversion to a detailed stock keeping unit inventory management system ($16.7 million net of tax), and d) changes in estimates and estimating methodology related to insurance reserves ($12.6 million net of tax). These charges are included in the Companys fiscal year 2001 financial statements. FISCAL YEAR 2003 COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR 2002 Net Sales Net sales for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, increased 7.9% to $4,174.4 million compared to net sales of $3,868.6 million for fiscal year 2002. This increase resulted from a comparable store sales increase of 3.4%, with the remaining increase driven primarily by sales from new stores that opened on or after February 4, 2001, offset by store closings. The Company attributes its comparable store sales increase of 3.4% to an increase in the dollar value of the average basket of 1.7% and an increase in the number of customer transactions of 1.7%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two fiscal years as of the beginning of fiscal year 2003. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average basket for fiscal year 2003 may have resulted from several factors such as the launch of the Companys first national television 20 Table of Contents advertising campaign covering all 1,430 stores, more productive advertising circulars, the introduction of furniture departments in 157 stores over the prior year, the allocation of additional square footage to 242 furniture departments in existing stores, and improved in stock levels on everyday basic items. In terms of product categories, sales growth in fiscal year 2003 was broad based with positive comparable store sales increases across most major categories driven by gains in consumables, furniture, hardlines, and domestics, offset by declines in apparel and home dcor. The Company believes that future sales growth is dependent upon the increased number of customer transactions as well as increases in the dollar value of the average basket. The following table summarizes comparable store sales increases as well as growth in customer transactions and the value of the average basket: Fiscal Year 2003 2002 Comparable store sales 3.4 % 7.7 % Customer transactions 1.7 % 2.8 % Value of the average basket 1.7 % 4.9 % Gross Profit Gross profit increased $114.5 million, or 7.0%, in fiscal year 2003 to $1,746.4 million from $1,631.9 million in fiscal year 2002. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 41.8% in fiscal year 2003 compared to 42.2% in the previous year. The Company believes the 40 basis point decrease in the gross profit percentage was driven by a reduction of 60 basis points in the initial markup of merchandise due to a combination of better than expected sales in lower markup categories, such as consumables, and increased freight rates related to imported merchandise. Markdown reductions of 20 basis points over the previous year partially offset the decline in initial markup. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $130.7 million, or 8.8%, in fiscal year 2003 to $1,616.0 million from $1,485.3 million in fiscal year 2002. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses increased 30 basis points to 38.7% in fiscal year 2003 from 38.4% in fiscal year 2002. The 30 basis point increase in the selling and administrative expense rate was primarily attributable to a partial charge off (23 basis points) of the HCC Note and the write off of the KB warrant received at the time of the sale of the KB Toys business and a charge (22 basis points) to settle the California wage and hour class action lawsuits (see KB Toys Matters and Litigation Charges in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Excluding these items, the selling and administrative rate reduction of 15 basis points was primarily attributable to the leveraging of fixed costs over a higher sales base and a reduced bonus payout, partially offset by the impact of increased distribution and transportation costs and store payroll due to increased carton volume in departments such as consumables which experienced higher sales volume and declining carton values. Selling and administrative expenses increased over fiscal year 2002 primarily due to an increase in the number of stores, costs associated with higher levels of sales and increased carton volume; national advertising costs; a partial charge off of the HCC Note and the write off of the KB warrant; and litigation charges. The $130.7 million increase was primarily attributable to increased store payroll costs of $50.0 million, increased distribution and transportation costs of $22.6 million, increased store occupancy related costs including rent and utilities of $22.2 million, a $9.9 million increase in advertising costs, a $9.6 million partial charge off of the HCC Note and the write off of the KB warrant; and a $9.1 million charge for the California wage and hour class action lawsuits. Distribution and transportation costs, which are included in selling and administrative expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), increased slightly by 15 basis points when compared to fiscal year 2002. 21 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of obligation issuance costs, was $16.4 million for fiscal year 2003 compared to $21.0 million for fiscal year 2002. As a percentage of net sales, interest expense decreased 10 basis points from 0.5% in fiscal year 2002 compared to 0.4% in fiscal year 2003. The decrease was primarily due to the fiscal year 2003 capitalization of $3.7 million of interest related to construction costs for the new distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma. Interest expense for fiscal years 2003 and 2002 was primarily related to the $204.0 million senior notes with maturities ranging from four to six years privately placed by the Company pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement dated May 8, 2001, (Senior Notes) as well as the amortization of obligation issuance costs (see Long term Obligations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest Income Interest income increased slightly to $1.1 million in fiscal year 2003 compared to $0.8 million for fiscal year 2002. Interest income was generated by interest earned on cash equivalents and short term investments. Cash equivalents at January 31, 2004, and February 1, 2003, were $170.3 million and $143.8 million, respectively. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate of the continuing operations of the Company was 20.9% for fiscal year 2003 compared to 39.5% for fiscal year 2002. The rate decrease was primarily related to the reversal of a $15.0 million deferred tax asset valuation allowance related to the HCC Note and the reversal of $3.1 million of previously accrued federal and state taxes as the result of the substantial resolution and closure of several years of federal and state income tax examinations. The Company anticipates the fiscal year 2004 effective income tax rate to fall within a range of 38.8% to 39.5%. Discontinued Operations See KB Toys Matters and Litigation Charges in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. FISCAL YEAR 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR 2001 Net Sales Net sales increased to $3,868.6 million for fiscal year 2002 from $3,433.3 million for fiscal year 2001, an increase of $435.3 million, or 12.7%. This increase resulted primarily from a comparable store sales increase of 7.7%, with the remaining increase driven primarily by sales from new stores that opened on or after January 30, 2000, offset by store closings. The Company attributes its comparable store sales increase of 7.7% to an increase in the dollar value of the average basket of 4.9% and an increase in the number of customer transactions of 2.8%. Comparable store sales are calculated using all stores that have been open for at least two fiscal years as of the beginning of fiscal year 2002. The Company believes the increase in the number of customer transactions and the increase in the dollar value of the average basket for fiscal year 2002 may have resulted from several factors such as more reliable in stock levels of consumables products, more productive advertising circulars, increased television advertising spending, the opening of 434 conversion stores during fiscal years 2002 and 2001, and the introduction of furniture departments in 128 stores over the prior year. In terms of product categories, sales growth in fiscal year 2002 was broad based with positive comparable store sales increases across most major categories driven by gains in domestics, furniture, hardlines, consumables, toys, and home dcor, offset by a decline in seasonal merchandise. 22 Table of Contents The following table summarizes comparable store sales increases as well as growth in customer transactions and the value of the average basket: Fiscal Year 2002 2001 Comparable store sales 7.7 % 2.0 % Customer transactions 2.8 % .3 % Value of the average basket 4.9 % 1.7 % Gross Profit Gross profit increased $290.8 million, or 21.7%, in fiscal year 2002 to $1,631.9 million from $1,341.1 million in fiscal year 2001. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 42.2% in fiscal year 2002 compared to 39.1% in the previous year. Of the 310 basis point improvement in the gross profit percentage, 180 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a charge of $37.8 million (net of tax) ($62.4 million before tax) (see 2001 Charge in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). The remaining 130 basis points of increase in the gross profit percentage was primarily due to improvements in initial markup due to opportunistic buying conditions across most merchandise categories, partially offset by promotional markdowns taken to clear seasonal inventory such as Christmas decorative merchandise. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $116.9 million in fiscal year 2002 to $1,485.3 million from $1,368.4 million in fiscal year 2001. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased to 38.4% in fiscal year 2002 from 39.9% in fiscal year 2001. Of the 150 basis point improvement in the selling and administrative expense rate, 110 basis points were due to prior years results having been impacted by a $21.1 million (net of tax) ($34.9 million before tax) charge resulting from a change in estimate relating to insurance reserves. The remaining 40 basis points of rate improvement in fiscal year 2002 was primarily due to improving productivity in distribution, transportation, and store payroll, partially offset by the negative impact of increased health insurance costs, as well as accelerating comparable sales on an expense base of which a large portion is fixed. Selling and administrative expenses increased over fiscal year 2001 primarily due to an increase in the number of stores, costs associated with higher levels of sales, and investment in store remodels. The $116.9 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in store payroll of $40.8 million, increased store occupancy related costs such as rent and utilities of $24.8 million, increased incentive compensation of $17.3 million due to improved operating results, and an increase of $17.2 million in insurance expense primarily driven by health costs related to increased associate participation and medical inflation. Distribution and transportation costs, which are included in selling and administrative expenses (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), decreased as a percentage of sales 60 basis points when compared to fiscal year 2001. The reduction in distribution and transportation costs as a percentage of sales was primarily due to productivity improvements and the leveraging of costs over a higher sales base. Interest Expense Interest expense, including the amortization of obligation issuance costs, was $21.0 million for fiscal year 2002 compared to $20.5 million for fiscal year 2001. As a percentage of net sales, interest expense for fiscal year 2002 declined slightly compared to fiscal year 2001. The fiscal year 2002 interest primarily relates to the Companys Senior Notes and the amortization of obligation issuance costs. The decrease in interest expense over fiscal year 2001 was primarily due to lower average borrowings under the Companys senior revolving Credit Agreement dated May 8, 2001 (Revolving Credit Agreement). This decrease was partially offset by fiscal year 2001 expense being favorably impacted in the first and second quarters by the capitalization of $2.4 million of interest related to the Tremont, Pennsylvania, distribution facility. Additionally, the Senior Notes, which carry a higher interest rate than the variable priced Revolving Credit Agreement, were not in place until the second quarter of fiscal year 2001. 23 Table of Contents Interest Income Interest income increased to $0.8 million in fiscal year 2002 compared to $0.3 million for fiscal year 2001. Interest income was generated by interest earned on cash equivalents and short term investments. Cash equivalents at February 1, 2003, and February 2, 2002, were $143.8 million and $17.5 million, respectively. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate of the Company was 39.5% in fiscal years 2002 and 2001. Discontinued Operations See KB Toys Matters and Litigation Charges in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Revolving Credit Agreement On May 8, 2001, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of financial institutions, which consisted of a $358.75 million three year revolving credit facility and a $153.75 million 364 day facility, renewable annually. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced the Companys prior senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Prior Revolver) which, at the time of its replacement, consisted of a $500.0 million revolving credit facility that was due to expire on May 6, 2002. The average interest rate under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal years 2003 and 2002 was 2.4% and 3.0%, respectively. The Revolving Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. The Company was in compliance with its financial covenants at January 31, 2004. On October 30, 2001, the financial covenants of the Revolving Credit Agreement were amended to provide the Company with increased operating flexibility. On February 25, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was amended to exclude the fiscal year 2001 charge (see 2001 Charge in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002, amendments, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for the Revolving Credit Agreement, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. The February 25, 2002, amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement imposed certain limitations on the extent to which the Company may borrow under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Companys borrowing base fluctuates at least quarterly based on the value of the Companys inventory, as determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2002, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the applicable borrowing base factor. At January 31, 2004, the Companys borrowing base was $280.5 million. On May 8, 2002, the Companys 364 day facility expired. This facility had not been used during the prior year and, accordingly, was not renewed. On July 31, 2003, the Revolving Credit Agreement was further amended to extend the maturity one year to May 2005, and to reduce the size of the facility from $358.75 million to $300.0 million to better match the facility size with the liquidity needs of the Company and minimize facility fees. The Company believes that the $300.0 million revolving credit facility, combined with cash provided by operations and existing cash balances, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its operating and seasonal borrowing needs. 24 Table of Contents Senior Notes The Senior Notes have maturities ranging from four to six years. Principal maturities of the Senior Notes are as follows: (In thousands) 2004 $ 2005 174,000 2006 15,000 2007 15,000 Long term obligations $ 204,000 The Senior Notes currently carry a weighted average yield of 8.21% and rank pari passu with the Companys Revolving Credit Agreement. Proceeds from the issue were used to pay down the Prior Revolver. The Note Purchase Agreement and Senior Notes contain customary affirmative and negative covenants including financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain specified fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios as well as a minimum level of net worth. The Company was in compliance with its financial covenants at January 31, 2004. On February 25, 2002, the Note Purchase Agreement was amended to exclude the fiscal year 2001 charge (see 2001 Charge in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) from the fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio financial covenant calculations. As part of the February 25, 2002, amendment, the Company provided collateral, consisting principally of its inventories, as security for the Senior Notes, and agreed to certain changes in other terms. Liquidity The primary sources of liquidity for the Company have been cash flows from operations, proceeds from the Senior Notes, and as necessary, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Working capital was $704.0 million, and the Company had no direct borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement at January 31, 2004. The Companys borrowing base at January 31, 2004, was $280.5 million. The borrowing base was reduced by outstanding letters of credit totaling $44.8 million. As a result, $235.7 million was available under the Revolving Credit Agreement at January 31, 2004. The Company had invested funds of $170.3 million at January 31, 2004. During fiscal year 2003, the Company had average borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $10.8 million and peak borrowings of $76.8 million. Additionally, the Company had average letters of credit outstanding of $35.7 million during fiscal year 2003. The amortization of obligation issuance costs is included in interest expense in the statements of operations. Cash flows from operating activities were $184.9 million during fiscal year 2003 and resulted primarily from net income adjusted for depreciation and amortization totaling $172.8 million. An increase in inventories of $53.4 million over fiscal year 2002 was primarily due to increased receipts of furniture merchandise substantially offset by an increase in accounts payable of $42.1 million. Capital expenditures were $163.7 million in fiscal year 2003, $102.7 million in fiscal year 2002, and $107.6 million in fiscal year 2001. Capital expenditures in fiscal year 2003 were primarily driven by the construction of the distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma, remodeling of existing stores, and new store openings. Capital expenditures in fiscal year 2002 were primarily driven by new store openings, investments in store remodels, and the commencement of the construction of the distribution facility in Durant, Oklahoma. Capital expenditures in fiscal year 2001 were primarily driven by new store openings; additional distribution facility capacity in Montgomery, Alabama, and Tremont, Pennsylvania; investments in store conversions and remodels; and the upgrade of the warehouse management system in the Columbus, Ohio, distribution facility. Capital expenditure requirements in 2004 are anticipated to be approximately $115 to $120 million, and will consist primarily of investments in approximately 90 new stores, store expansions, the reengineering of the Columbus, Ohio, distribution facility, and the remodeling of 68 existing stores. 25 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes payments due under the Companys contractual obligations at January 31, 2004: Payments Due by Period(1) Less than More than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years Total (In thousands) Long term debt obligations (2) $ $ 189,000 $ 15,000 $ $ 204,000 Capital lease obligations Operating lease obligations (3) (4) 260,033 422,062 253,985 180,742 1,116,822 Purchase obligations (4) (5) 721,726 235,724 105,851 145,916 1,209,217 Other long term liabilities Total contractual obligations (6) $ 981,759 $ 846,786 $ 374,836 $ 326,658 $ 2,530,039 (1) The disclosure of contractual obligations in this table is based on assumptions and estimates that the Company believes to be reasonable as of the date of this report. Those assumptions and estimates may prove to be inaccurate; consequently, the amounts provided in the table may differ materially from those amounts that the Company ultimately incurs. Variables that may cause the stated amounts to vary from those actually incurred include, but are not limited to: the termination of a contractual obligation prior to its stated or anticipated expiration; fees or damages incurred as a result of the premature termination or breach of a contractual obligation; the acquisition of more or less services or goods under a contractual obligation than are anticipated by the Company as of the date of this report; fluctuations in third party fees, governmental charges or market rates that the Company is obligated to pay under contracts it has with certain vendors; and the exercise of renewal options under or the automatic renewal of contracts that provide for the same. (2) Long term debt obligations are limited to the Senior Notes. The table assumes that the Senior Notes are paid at maturity (see Long term Obligations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). (3) Operating lease obligations include, among other items, leases for the Companys retail stores, warehouse space, and offices. Many of the store lease obligations require the Company to pay for common area maintenance, real estate taxes, and insurance. The Company has made certain assumptions and estimates in order to account for its contractual obligations relative to common area maintenance, real estate taxes, and property insurance. The Company estimates that future obligations for common area maintenance, real estate taxes, and property insurance are $57.6 million at January 31, 2004. Those assumptions and estimates include, but are not limited to: extrapolation of historical data to estimate the Companys future obligations; calculation of the Companys obligations based on per square foot averages where no historical data is available for a particular leasehold; and assumptions related to certain increases over historical data where the Companys obligation is a prorated share of all lessees obligations within a particular property (see Leases in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). (4) For purposes of the operating lease and purchase obligation disclosures, the Company has assumed that it will make all payments scheduled or reasonably estimated to be made under those obligations that have a determinable expiration date, and the Company disregarded the possibility that such obligations may be prematurely terminated or extended, whether automatically by the terms of the obligation or by agreement of the Company and its vendor, due to the speculative nature of premature termination or extension. Where an operating lease or purchase obligation is subject to a month to month term or another automatically renewing term, the Company disclosed its minimum commitment under such obligation, e.g. one month in the case of a month to month obligation and the then current term in the case of another automatically renewing term, due to the uncertainty of the length of the eventual term. (5) Purchase obligations include outstanding purchase orders for retail merchandise issued in the ordinary course of the Companys business that are valued at $463.7 million, the entirety of which represents obligations due within one year of 26 Table of Contents January 31, 2004. Purchase obligations also include a commitment for future inventory purchases totaling $359.8 million at January 31, 2004. While the Company is not required to meet any periodic minimum purchase requirements under this commitment, for purposes of this tabular disclosure, the Company has included the value of the purchases that it anticipates making during each of the reported periods, as purchases will count toward its fulfillment of the aggregate obligation. The remaining $385.7 million is primarily related to distribution and transportation commitments and future advertising services. (6) The obligations disclosed in this table are exclusive of the contingent liabilities, guarantees, and indemnities related to KB Toys (see KB Toys Matters and Litigation Charges in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. The Companys accounting policies and other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America are also described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The items listed below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all the Companys accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, with no need for managements judgment in the principles application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The Company has certain critical accounting policies and accounting estimates, which are described below. Merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the average cost retail inventory method. Market is determined based on the estimated net realizable value, which generally is the merchandise selling price. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. Inventory retail values are converted to a cost basis by applying specific average cost factors for each merchandise department. Cost factors represent the average cost to retail ratio for each merchandise department based on beginning inventory and the fiscal year purchase activity. The retail inventory method requires management to make judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of markdowns to clear unproductive or slow moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation and gross profit. These assumptions are based on historical experience and current information. Factors considered in the determination of markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise, and seasonal trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise or a promotional markdown decision is made, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the last physical inventory date to the end of the fiscal year. Such estimates are based on experience and the most recent physical inventory results. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, the Company has loss prevention programs and policies that it believes will minimize shrinkage. Due to the nature of the Companys purchasing practices for closeout and deeply discounted merchandise, vendors and merchandise suppliers generally do not offer the Company incentives such as slotting fees, cooperative advertising allowances, buy down agreements, or other forms of rebates that would materially reduce its cost of sales. Property and equipment. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Service lives are principally forty years for buildings and from three to fifteen years for other property and equipment. 27 Table of Contents Impairment. The Company has long lived assets that consist primarily of property and equipment. The Company estimates useful lives on buildings and equipment using assumptions based on historical data and industry trends. Impairment is recorded if the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows. The Companys assumptions related to estimates of future cash flows are based on historical results of cash flows adjusted for management projections for future periods taking into account known conditions and planned future activities. The Companys assumptions regarding the fair value of its long lived assets are based on the discounted future cash flows. Insurance reserves. The Company is self insured for certain losses relating to general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical benefit claims, and the Company has purchased stop loss coverage in order to limit significant exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. Such amounts are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account known trends and projections of future results. Actual claims experience can impact these calculations and, to the extent that subsequent claim costs vary from estimates, future earnings could be impacted and the impact could be material. Income taxes. The Company records income tax loss contingencies for estimates of the outcome or settlement of various asserted and unasserted income tax contingencies including tax audits and administrative appeals. At any one point in time, many tax years may be in various stages of audit or appeals or could be subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. This requires a periodic identification and evaluation of significant doubtful or controversial issues both individually and collectively. The results of the audits, appeals, or expiration of the statute of limitations are reflected in the income tax contingency calculations accordingly. The Company has generated deferred tax assets due to temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has established a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the balance that is more likely than not to be realized. The effective income tax rate in any period may be materially impacted by the overall level of income (loss), the jurisdictional mix and magnitude of income (loss), changes in the expected outcome or settlement of an income tax contingency, changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, and adjustments of a deferred tax liability or asset for enacted changes in tax laws or rates. Pension liabilities. Pension and other retirement benefits, including all relevant assumptions required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, are evaluated each year. Due to the technical nature of retirement accounting, outside actuaries are used to provide assistance in calculating the estimated future obligations. Since there are many assumptions used to estimate future retirement benefits, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to pension expense and obligations. Certain actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate and expected long term rate of return, have a significant effect on the amounts reported for net periodic pension cost and the related benefit obligations. The Company reviews external data and historical trends to help determine the discount rate and expected long term rate of return. The Companys objective in selecting a discount rate is to identify the best estimate of the rate at which the benefit obligations would be settled on the measurement date. In making this estimate, the Company reviews rates of return on high quality, fixed income investments currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the benefits. This process includes a review of the bonds available on the measurement date with a quality rating of Aa or better. The discount rate used to determine the net periodic pension cost for fiscal year 2003 was 6.8%. A 0.5% increase in the discount rate would reduce the net periodic pension cost by $0.2 million. A 0.5% reduction in the discount rate would increase the net periodic pension cost by $0.5 million. To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets, the Company considered the historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the current or anticipated future allocation of the pension portfolio. This resulted in the selection of the 9.0% long term rate of return on assets for fiscal year 2003. A 1.0% increase in the expected long term rate of return would decrease the net periodic pension cost by $0.3 million. A 1.0% decrease in the expected long term rate of return would increase the net periodic pension cost by $0.3 million. The Company has reduced the expected long term rate of return on assets to 8.5% for fiscal year 2004. 28 Table of Contents Legal obligations. In the normal course of business, the Company must make continuing estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which require the use of managements judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process; however, the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be materially different from managements estimates and adjustments to income could be required. The assumptions that are used by management are based on the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company will record a liability related to legal obligations when it has determined that it is probable that the Company will be obligated to pay and the related amount can be reasonably estimated, and it will disclose the related facts in the footnotes to its financial statements, if material. If the Company determines that either an obligation is probable or reasonably possible, the Company will, if material, disclose the nature of the loss contingency and the estimated range of possible loss, or include a statement that no estimate of loss can be made. The Company makes these determinations in consultation with its outside legal advisors. Cost of sales. Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise (including related inbound freight), markdowns, and inventory shrinkage, net of cash discounts and rebates. The Company classifies purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing costs, internal transfer costs, and other distribution network costs as selling and administrative expenses. Due to this classification, the Companys gross profit rates may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include costs related to their distribution network in cost of sales. Selling and administrative expenses. The Company includes store expenses (such as payroll and occupancy costs), distribution and transportation costs, advertising, buying, depreciation, insurance, and overhead costs in selling and administrative expenses. Discontinued operations. At January 31, 2004, the reserve for discontinued operations includes managements best estimate of the Companys potential liability under its guarantee of 90 store leases which have been rejected by KB as part of its bankruptcy proceeding. Management has utilized an independent real estate valuation firm to assist in developing this estimate. Management will periodically update its estimate as information about the potential liability becomes available. If KB rejects additional leases as its bankruptcy proceeds, management will estimate the additional potential liability and record any charge as discontinued operations. In addition, the KB Stock Purchase Agreement contains mutual indemnifications of KB by the Company and of the Company by KB. Managements best estimate of any potential liability resulting from such mutual indemnification obligations are recorded as discontinued operations at January 31, 2004. Management will periodically update its estimate as information about any potential liability becomes available. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recent Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMMITMENTS Commitments are discussed in the Long term Obligations, the Commitments and Contingencies, and the Leases Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 29 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing, and cash management activities. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates in fiscal year 2004 to have a material effect on income or cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that interest rates will not materially change. The Company does not believe that a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in interest rates would have a material adverse effect on the Companys capital resources, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The Company continues to believe that it has, or, if necessary, has the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses, development of new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Additionally, management is not aware of any current trends, events, demands, commitments, or uncertainties which reasonably can be expected to have a material impact on the Companys capital resources, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 30 Table of Contents 
 
