Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) of this Form 10 K.Real EstateThe following table compares the number of our stores in operation, by segment, at the beginning and end of each of the last five fiscal years: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007U.S. Stores open at the beginning of the year1,398 1,361 1,339 1,353 1,375 Stores opened during the year92 80 52 21 7 Stores acquired during the year Stores closed during the year(39) (43) (30) (35) (29) Stores open at the end of the year1,451 1,398 1,361 1,339 1,353 Canada Stores open at the beginning of the year Stores opened during the year Stores acquired during the year89 Stores closed during the year(7) Stores open at the end of the year82 Consolidated Stores open at the beginning of the year1,398 1,361 1,339 1,353 1,375 Stores opened during the year92 80 52 21 7 Stores acquired during the year89 Stores closed during the year(46) (43) (30) (35) (29) Stores open at the end of the year1,533 1,398 1,361 1,339 1,353During 2009, the U.S. commercial real estate market softened and, as a result, we successfully negotiated a number of new store leases as the availability of space improved, rental rates eased, and our sales and profitability improved at the store level. This trend continued into 2010. In addition, during 2009 and 2010, we were able to favorably negotiate renewals for certain store leases which, prior to 2009, may have resulted in store closures. In 2011, we continued our new store expansion activities in the U.S., and also acquired 89 stores in Canada as the result of our acquisition of Liquidation World Inc. For additional information about our real estate strategy, see the discussion under the caption Operating Strategy Real Estate in the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10 K.3Table of ContentsThe following table details our U.S. stores by state at January 28, 2012:Alabama28 Maine7 Ohio108Arizona36 Maryland19 Oklahoma17Arkansas13 Massachusetts20 Oregon13California174 Michigan48 Pennsylvania70Colorado20 Minnesota7 Rhode Island1Connecticut11 Mississippi14 South Carolina34Delaware4 Missouri28 South Dakota1Florida109 Montana2 Tennessee47Georgia60 Nebraska4 Texas117Idaho6 Nevada12 Utah11Illinois34 New Hampshire7 Vermont4Indiana46 New Jersey18 Virginia37Iowa3 New Mexico12 Washington23Kansas9 New York54 West Virginia18Kentucky40 North Carolina68 Wisconsin10Louisiana23 North Dakota2 Wyoming2 Total stores1,451 Number of states48The following table details our Canadian stores by province at January 28, 2012:Alberta13 New Brunswick2 Saskatchewan6British Columbia16 Nova Scotia4 Manitoba4 Ontario37 Total stores82 Number of provinces7Of our 1,533 stores, 33% operate in four states: California, Texas, Ohio, and Florida, and net sales from stores in these states represented 36% of our 2011 net sales.AssociatesAt January 28, 2012, we had approximately 37,400 active associates comprised of 13,200 fulltime and 24,200 parttime associates. Temporary associates hired during the fall and winter holiday selling season increased the number of associates to a peak of approximately 43,000 in 2011. Approximately 65% of the associates employed throughout the year are employed on a parttime basis. We consider our relationship with our associates to be good, and we are not a party to any labor agreements. CompetitionWe operate in the highly competitive retail industry and face strong sales competition from other general merchandise, discount, food, furniture, arts and crafts, and dollar store retailers. Additionally, we compete with a number of companies for retail site locations, to attract and retain quality employees, and to acquire our broad assortment of closeout merchandise from vendors. 4Table of ContentsPurchasingAn integral part of our business is the sourcing and purchasing of quality brand name merchandise directly from manufacturers and other vendors typically at prices below those paid by traditional retailers. We believe that we have built strong relationships with many brand name vendors and we have capitalized on our purchasing power in the closeout marketplace, including our ability to pay timely and source merchandise that provides exceptional value to our customers. We have the ability to source and purchase significant quantities of a vendors closeout merchandise in specific product categories and to control distribution in accordance with vendor instructions. We believe this ability provides a high level of service and convenience to our vendors. We supplement our traditional brand name closeout purchases with various direct import and domestically sourced merchandise, which represents merchandise that our customers consistently expect us to have in our stores or merchandise that we believe offers our customers a significant value. Our sourcing channels also include bankruptcies, liquidations, and insurance claims. We expect that the unpredictability of the retail and manufacturing environments coupled with what we believe is our dominant purchasing power position will continue to support our ability to source quality closeout merchandise at competitive prices.We have a merchandising team with extensive closeout purchasing experience, which we believe has enabled us to develop successful longterm relationships with many of the largest and most recognized vendors in North America. As a result of our relationships and our experience and reputation in the closeout industry, we believe many vendors offer buying opportunities to us prior to attempting to dispose of their merchandise through other channels.Our merchandise is purchased from a broad and growing vendor base of more than 3,000 domestic and foreign vendors. In 2011, our top ten vendors accounted for approximately 15% of total purchases (at cost) while the largest vendor accounted for approximately 4% of total purchases (at cost).During 2011, we purchased approximately 26% of our merchandise directly from overseas vendors, including approximately 23% from vendors located in China. Additionally, a significant amount of our domestically purchased merchandise is manufactured abroad. As a result, a significant portion of our merchandise supply is subject to certain risks as described further in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. Warehouse and DistributionThe majority of the merchandise we sell is received and processed for retail sale and distributed to the retail locations from our seven regional distribution centers. Our U.S. segment is serviced by regional distribution centers located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Alabama, Oklahoma, and California. Our Canadian segment is serviced by regional distribution centers located in British Columbia and Ontario. While a select few of our merchandise vendors deliver merchandise directly to our stores, the large majority of our inventory is managed through our our distribution centers to facilitate the prompt and efficient distribution of merchandise to our stores in order to maximize sales and our inventory turnover rate. We selected the locations of our distribution centers in the U.S. in an effort to minimize transportation costs and the distance from distribution centers to our stores.In addition to the regional distribution centers that handle merchandise, we operate a warehouse in Ohio that distributes store fixtures and supplies and wholesale inventory for our U.S. segment. For additional information regarding our warehouses and distribution facilities and related initiatives, see the discussion under the caption Warehouse and Distribution in Item 2. Properties of this Form 10 K and the discussion under the caption Operating Strategy Cost Structure in the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10 K.Advertising and PromotionOur brand image is an important part of our marketing program. Our principal trademarks, including the Big Lots family of trademarks, have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the Canadian Intellectual Property Office. We use a variety of marketing approaches to promote our brand and retail position through television, internet, in store point of purchase, and print media. 5Table of ContentsThe centerpiece of our U.S. marketing efforts is our television campaign which combines elements of strategic branding and promotion. These same elements are also used in most of our other marketing media. Our highly targeted media placement strategy uses national cable as the foundation of our television buys which is then supplemented with commercials placed with broadcast networks in key markets. In all markets served by our U.S. stores, we design and distribute printed advertising circulars, through a combination of newspaper insertions and mailings. In 2011, we distributed multi page circulars covering 27 weeks which was consistent with our approach in 2010 and 2009. We create regional versions of these circulars to take advantage of market differences caused by product availability, climate, and customer preferences. In addition, we use in store promotional materials, including instore signage, to emphasize special bargains and significant values offered to our customers. Since the date we acquired Liquidation World Inc., our marketing efforts in Canada have been limited to in store promotional materials. Our focus in Canada has been on building inventory assortments to optimal levels and enhancing the presentation of our stores. Once these goals are accomplished, we will evaluate which marketing strategies (e.g., branding and promotional advertising) best fit our operational goals.Our customer list, which we refer to as the Buzz Club in the U.S., is an important marketing tool which allows us to communicate in a cost effective manner with our customers, including e mail delivery of our circulars. In addition to the Buzz Club, in August of 2009, we started the Buzz Club Rewards program (Rewards), which has grown rapidly from 1.2 million members at the end of 2009 to 11.5 million members at the end of 2011. Members of the Buzz Club Rewards program use a membership card when making purchases and earn discounts on future purchases when they meet certain thresholds. Buzz Club Rewards members may also receive other targeted promotions. We continue to use our website (www.biglots.com) as a key avenue to communicate with our customers through special catalogs and online advertising, attracting approximately 1.3 million unique visitors each week. Total advertising expense as a percentage of total net sales was 1.9% in 2011, 1.9% in 2010, and 2.0% in 2009.SeasonalityWe have historically experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our sales and profitability, with a larger percentage of our net sales and operating profit realized in the fourth fiscal quarter. In addition, our quarterly net sales and operating profits can be affected by the timing of new store openings and store closings, the timing of television and circular advertising, and the timing of certain holidays. We historically receive a higher proportion of merchandise, carry higher inventory levels, and incur higher outbound shipping and payroll expenses as a percentage of sales in the third fiscal quarter in anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth fiscal quarter. The fourth fiscal quarter typically includes a leveraging effect on operating results because net sales are higher and certain of our costs, such as rent and depreciation, are fixed and do not vary as sales levels escalate.The seasonality of our net sales and related merchandise inventory requirements influences our availability of and demand for cash or access to credit. We historically have drawn upon our credit facility to assist in funding our working capital requirements, which typically peak near the end of our third fiscal quarter. We historically have higher net sales, operating profits, and cash flow provided by operations in the fourth fiscal quarter which allows us to substantially repay our seasonal borrowings. In 2011, our total indebtedness (outstanding borrowings and letters of credit) peaked in early December 2011 at approximately $400 million under our $700 million unsecured credit facility entered into in July 2011 (2011 Credit Agreement). At January 28, 2012, our total indebtedness under the 2011 Credit Agreement was $121.1 million, which included $65.9 million in borrowings and $55.2 million in outstanding letters of credit. We expect that borrowings will vary throughout 2012 depending on various factors, including our seasonal need to acquire merchandise inventory prior to peak selling seasons, the timing and amount of sales to our customers, the working capital needs of our Canadian segment, and the potential impact of shares repurchased under our authorized share repurchase program. For additional information on our current share repurchase program, the 2011 Credit Agreement, and a discussion of our sources and uses of funds, see Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities and the discussion under the caption Capital Resources and Liquidity in the accompanying MD&A, in this Form 10 K. Available InformationWe make available, free of charge, through the Investor Relations section of our website (www.biglots.com) under the SEC Filings caption, our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).6Table of ContentsIn this Form 10 K, we incorporate by reference certain information from parts of our Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2012 Proxy Statement). In the Investor Relations section of our website (www.biglots.com) under the Corporate Governance and SEC Filings captions, the following information relating to our corporate governance may be found: Corporate Governance Guidelines; charters of our Board of Directors Audit, Compensation, Nominating/Corporate Governance, Strategic Planning, and Public Policy and Environmental Affairs Committees; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals; Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications related to our SEC filings; the means by which shareholders may communicate with our Board of Directors; and transactions in our securities by our directors and executive officers. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all of our associates, including our directors and our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer. The Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals applies to our Chief Executive Officer and all other Senior Financial Officers (as that term is defined therein) and contains provisions specifically applicable to the individuals serving in those positions. We intend to post amendments to and waivers from, if any, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (to the extent applicable to our directors and executive officers) and our Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals in the Investor Relations section of our website (www.biglots.com) under the Corporate Governance caption. We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary. The contents of our websites are not part of this report.Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe statements in this section describe the material risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.Our disclosure and analysis in this Form 10 K and in our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders contain some forward looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on managements plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such statements are commonly identified by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, objective, goal, project, intend, plan, believe, will, should, may, target, forecast, guidance, outlook, and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, forward looking statements include statements relating to future actions, future performance, or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results.We cannot guarantee that any forward looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potential inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated, or projected results set forth in the forward looking statements. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward looking statements.You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K filed with the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of material risks, uncertainties, and assumptions relevant to our businesses. There can be no assurances that we have correctly and completely identified, assessed, and accounted for all factors that do or may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we presently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Consequently, all of the forward looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the results or developments we anticipate will be realized or that they will have the expected effects on our business or operations. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.7Table of ContentsOur ability to achieve the results contemplated by forward looking statements is subject to a number of factors, any one, or a combination, of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. These factors may include, but are not limited to:The current economic conditions (including commodity price fluctuations, bankruptcies, and reduced access to credit) give rise to risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity including, but not limited to the following:Fluctuating commodity prices, including but not limited to diesel fuel and other fuels used to generate power by utilities, may affect our gross profit and operating profit margins.Our expectations regarding the demand for our merchandise may be inaccurate, which could cause us to under buy or over buy certain categories or departments of merchandise, which could result in customer dissatisfaction or require excessive markdowns to sell through the merchandise.The reaction of our competitors to the marketplace, including the level of liquidations occurring at bankrupt retailers, may drive our competitors, some of whom are better capitalized than us, to offer significant discounts or promotions on their merchandise, which could negatively affect our sales and profit margins.Our vendors may be negatively impacted by current economic conditions due to insufficient availability of credit to fund their operations or insufficient demand for their products, which may affect their ability to fulfill their obligations to us.A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our ability to access capital or could increase the borrowing rates we pay.If we are unable to continue to successfully execute our operating strategies in our U.S. segment, our operating performance could be significantly impacted.There is a risk that we will be unable to continue to meet or exceed our operating performance targets and goals in the future if our strategies and initiatives are unsuccessful. In 2010, we announced operating performance targets and goals as part of an updated strategic plan that we intend to use as our roadmap for the near future. That plan includes a growth phase and a continued focus on merchandising, real estate, and cost structure. Overall, for our U.S. segment, both our actual 2011 operating performance and our 2012 operating performance outlook are materially consistent with the operating performance targets outlined in the strategic plan announced in 2010 but there can be no assurance we will be able to continue to successfully execute our operating strategies. See the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10 K for additional information concerning our operating strategy. If we are unable to successfully implement our operating strategies in our Canadian segment, our operating performance could be significantly impacted.During 2011, we acquired Liquidation World Inc. as an avenue for entry into the Canadian retail market, which was not specifically included in the strategic plan announced in 2010, but fell within the growth phase goals of our overall plan. The Companys intent is to implement an operating strategy in Canada similar to that of our U.S. segment. If we are unable to successfully implement this strategy in Canada, such failure could have a material adverse affect on the consolidated operating performance and the value of our goodwill and intangibles assets associated with the Canadian segment could be negatively affected. See the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10 K for additional information concerning our operating strategy. If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive discount retail industry, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The discount retail business is highly competitive. As discussed in Item 1 of this Form 10 K, we compete for customers, employees, products, real estate, and other aspects of our business with a number of other companies. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing, and other resources than us. It is possible that increased competition or improved performance by our competitors may reduce our market share, gross margin, and operating margin, and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in other ways.8Table of ContentsChanges by vendors related to the management of their inventories may reduce the quantity and quality of brand name closeout merchandise available to us or may increase our cost to acquire brand name closeout merchandise, either of which may materially adversely affect our revenues and gross margin. The products we sell are sourced from a variety of vendors. The portion of our merchandise assortment that is pre planned and made for us consists of imported merchandise (primarily merchandise in our furniture, seasonal, and home categories along with merchandise in certain other departments like toys) or merchandise that we can re order upon demand. However, for the closeout component of our business, we do not control the supply, design, function, availability, or cost of many of the products that we offer for sale. Our ability to meet or exceed our operating performance targets for gross margin depends upon the sufficient availability of closeout merchandise that we can acquire and offer at prices that represent a value to our customers. In addition, we rely on our vendors to provide us with quality merchandise. To the extent that certain of our vendors are better able to manage their inventory levels and reduce the amount of their excess inventory, the amount of closeout merchandise available to us could be materially reduced. Shortages or disruptions in the availability of closeout merchandise of a quality acceptable to our customers and us would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales and gross margin and may result in customer dissatisfaction. We rely on vendors located in foreign countries for significant amounts of merchandise and a significant amount of our domestically purchased merchandise is manufactured abroad. Our business may be materially adversely affected by risks associated with international trade.Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in driving higher gross margin. During 2011, we purchased approximately 26% of our products directly from overseas vendors including 23% from vendors located in China. Our ability to identify qualified vendors and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside of North America. Global sourcing and foreign trade involve numerous factors and uncertainties beyond our control including increased shipping costs, increased import duties, more restrictive quotas, loss of "most favored nation" trading status, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, work stoppages, transportation delays, economic uncertainties such as inflation, foreign government regulations, political unrest, natural disasters, war, terrorism, trade restrictions (including retaliation by the United States against foreign practices), political instability, the financial stability of vendors, merchandise quality issues, and tariffs. These and other issues affecting our international vendors could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance.Disruption to our distribution network, the capacity of our distribution centers, and the timely receipt of merchandise inventory could adversely affect our operating performance.We rely on the ability to replenish depleted merchandise inventory through deliveries to our distribution centers and from the distribution centers to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea, rail and truck carriers. A decrease in the capacity of carriers and or labor strikes or shortages in the transportation industry could negatively affect our distribution network, the timely receipt of merchandise and transportation costs. In addition, long term disruptions to North American and international transportation infrastructure from wars, political unrest, terrorism, natural disasters and other significant events that lead to delays or interruptions of service could adversely affect our business. Also, a fire, earthquake, or other disaster at one of our distribution centers could disrupt our timely receiving, processing and shipment of merchandise to our stores which could adversely affect our business. As we continue to expand our operations, we may face increased or unexpected demands on distribution center operations, as well as unexpected demands on our distribution network. In addition, new store locations receiving shipments that are increasingly further away from our distribution centers will increase transportation costs, driven by rising fuel prices, and may create transportation scheduling strains.Our inability to properly manage our inventory levels and offer merchandise that our customers want may materially adversely impact our business and financial performance.We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. However, we also must seek to avoid accumulating excess inventory in order to maintain appropriate in stock levels. As stated above, we obtain approximately one quarter of our merchandise from vendors outside of North America. These foreign vendors often require lengthy advance notice of our requirements in order to be able to supply products in the quantities that we request. This usually requires us to order merchandise and enter into purchase order contracts for the purchase and manufacture of such merchandise well in advance of the time these products are offered for sale. As a result, we may experience difficulty in responding to a changing retail environment, which makes us vulnerable to changes in price and in consumer preferences. In addition, we attempt to maximize our gross margin and operating efficiency by delivering proper quantities of merchandise to our stores in a timely manner. If we do not accurately anticipate future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to replenish inventory levels, our inventory levels may not be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted.9Table of ContentsDeclines in general economic condition, consumer spending levels, and other conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for our merchandise thereby materially adversely affecting our revenues and gross margin.Our results of operations can be directly impacted by the health of the economies of the United States and Canada. Our business and financial performance may be adversely impacted by current and future economic conditions, including factors that may restrict or otherwise negatively impact consumer financing, disposable income levels, unemployment levels, energy costs, interest rates, recession, inflation, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities, and other matters that influence consumer spending. The economies of four states (Ohio, Texas, California, and Florida) are particularly important as approximately 33% of our current stores operate in these states and 36% of our 2011 net sales occurred in these states.Changes in federal or state/provincial legislation and regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on product safety, could increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating performance.We are exposed to the risk that new federal or state/provincial legislation, including new product safety laws and regulations, may negatively impact our operations and adversely affect our operating performance. Additional changes in product safety legislation or regulations may lead to product recalls and the disposal or write off of merchandise, as well as fines or penalties and reputational damage. If our merchandise, including food and consumable products, do not meet applicable governmental safety standards or our customers expectations regarding quality or safety, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. Our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements, or execute product recalls in a timely manner, could result in fines or penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause us to lose market share to our competitors. If this occurs, it may be difficult for us to regain lost sales. We may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance.From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions, including various collective or class action lawsuits that are brought against us for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not be able to accurately determine the impact on us of any future adverse outcome of such proceedings. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. In addition, regardless of the outcome, these proceedings could result in substantial cost to us and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. For a description of certain current legal proceedings, see note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.Our current insurance program may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial performance.Our insurance coverage reflects deductibles, self insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe are prudent based on the dispersion of our operations. However, there are types of losses we may incur but against which we cannot be insured or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to acts of war, employee and certain other crime and some natural disasters. If we incur these losses and they are material, our business could suffer. Certain material events may result in sizable losses for the insurance industry and adversely impact the availability of adequate insurance coverage or result in excessive premium increases. To offset negative insurance market trends, we may elect to self insure, accept higher deductibles or reduce the amount of coverage in response to these market changes. In addition, we self insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers compensation, general liability, including automobile, and group health insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these losses, including expected increases in medical and indemnity costs, could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we continue to maintain property insurance for catastrophic events, we are effectively self insured for losses up to the amount of our deductibles. If we experience a greater number of these losses than we anticipate, our financial performance could be adversely affected.10Table of ContentsA significant decline in our operating profit and taxable income may impair our ability to realize the value of our long lived assets and deferred tax assets. We are required by accounting rules to periodically assess our property and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, and deferred tax assets for impairment and recognize an impairment loss or valuation charge, if necessary. In performing these assessments in our U.S. segment, we use our historical financial performance to determine whether we have potential impairments or valuation concerns and as evidence to support our assumptions about future financial performance. In relation to our recently acquired Canadian segment, we use our estimate of future financial performance in performing these assessments as we do not believe pre acquisition performance is indicative of the future performance of the segment. If our financial performance significantly declines, it could negatively affect the results of our assessments of the recoverability of our property and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, and our deferred tax assets. There is a risk that if our future operating results significantly decline, it could impair our ability to recover the value of these assets. Impairment or valuation charges taken against property and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, and deferred tax assets could be material and could have a material adverse impact on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity (see the discussion under the caption Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10 K for additional information regarding our accounting policies for long lived assets, goodwill, and income taxes).Our inability, if any, to comply with the terms of the 2011 Credit Agreement may have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We have the ability to borrow funds under the 2011 Credit Agreement and we utilize this ability at various times depending on operating or other cash flow requirements. The 2011 Credit Agreement contains financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, limitations on indebtedness, liens, and investments, as well as the maintenance of two financial ratios a leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio. A violation of these covenants may permit the lenders to restrict our ability to further access loans and letters of credit and may require the immediate repayment of any outstanding loans. If we do not comply with these covenants, it may have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.If we are unable to maintain or upgrade our information systems and software programs or if we are unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner, our operations may be disrupted or become less efficient.We depend on a variety of information systems for the efficient functioning of our business. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that we can continue to support our business. The software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. Costs and potential interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of our existing systems could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our business.If we are unable to successfully execute our SAP for Retail system implementation, our operations may be disrupted or become less efficient.In January 2008, we announced our plans to implement SAP for Retail solutions over the next few years. New financial systems, including general ledger, accounts payable and fixed assets, were developed and tested during 2008 and 2009. The new financial systems were placed in service in the first quarter of 2010. A new core merchandising system was developed and placed in service in the first quarter of 2012. The implementation of these systems is expected to have a pervasive impact on our information systems and across a significant portion of our general office operations, including merchandising, technology, and finance. If we are unable to successfully complete the transition to SAP for Retail, it may have an adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.If we are unable to retain existing and secure suitable new store locations under favorable lease terms, our financial performance may be negatively affected.We lease almost all of our stores and a significant number of these leases expire or are up for renewal each year, as noted below in Item 2. Properties to this Form 10 K. Our strategy to improve our financial performance includes sales growth while managing the occupancy cost of each of our stores. A significant component of our sales growth strategy is to open new store locations. If the commercial real estate market tightens and we are not able to negotiate favorable new store leases and lease renewals, our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity may be negatively affected.11Table of ContentsIf we are unable to attract, train and retain highly qualified associates while also controlling our labor costs, our financial performance may be negatively affected. Our customers expect a positive shopping experience, which is driven by a high level of customer service from our associates and a quality presentation of our merchandise. To meet the needs and expectations of our customers, we must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of highly qualified associates, as we continue to grow our operations, while at the same time control labor costs. We compete with other retail businesses for many of our associates in hourly and part time positions. These positions have historically had high turnover rates, which can lead to increased training and retention costs. In addition, our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates, the impact of legislation or regulations governing labor relations or benefits, and health insurance costs. If we lose key personnel, it may have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations.We believe that we benefit substantially from the leadership and experience of our senior executives. The loss of services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse impact on our business. Competition for key personnel in the retail industry is intense and our future success will also depend on our ability to recruit, train, and retain our senior executives and other qualified personnel.Changes in accounting guidance could significantly affect our results of operations and the presentation of those results.Changes in accounting standards, including new interpretations and applications of accounting standards, may have adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The governing accounting bodies, specifically the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), have proposed numerous significant changes to current accounting standards. This proposed new guidance could significantly change the presentation of financial information and results of operations. Additionally, the new guidance may require us to make systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs. Specifically, implementing future accounting guidance related to leases and other areas impacted by the current convergence project between the FASB and IASB could require us to make significant changes to our lease management system or other accounting systems.If we are unable to secure customer, employee, and company data, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to penalties or lawsuits.The protection of our customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across our business. In addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, and or lawsuits.The price of our common shares as traded on the New York Stock Exchange may be volatile.Our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of factors beyond our control, including but not limited to, general economic and stock market conditions, risks relating to our business and industry as discussed above, strategic actions by us or our competitors, variations in our quarterly operating performance, our future sales or purchases of our common shares, and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common shares relative to other investment alternatives. The bankruptcy of our formerly owned KB Toys business may adversely affect our financial performance.In December 2000, we sold the KB Toys business to KB Acquisition Corporation. On January 14, 2004, KB Acquisition Corporation and certain affiliated entities (collectively KB I) filed for bankruptcy protection pursuant to Chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code. On August 30, 2005, in connection with the acquisition by an affiliate of Prentice Capital Management of majority ownership of KB I, KB I emerged from their January 14, 2004 bankruptcy (the KB Toys business that emerged from bankruptcy is hereinafter referred to as KB II). On December 11, 2008, KB II filed for bankruptcy protection pursuant to Chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code. Based on information we have received subsequent to the December 11, 2008 bankruptcy filing, we believe we still may have indemnification and guarantee obligations (KB II Bankruptcy Lease Obligations) with respect to 29 KB Toys store leases and a lease for a former KB corporate office. Because of uncertainty inherent in the assumptions used to estimate this liability, our estimated liability could ultimately prove to be understated and could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. For additional information regarding the KB Toys bankruptcies, see note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.12Table of ContentsWe also may be subject to a number of other factors which may, individually or in the aggregate, materially or adversely affect our business. These factors include, but are not limited to:Changes in governmental laws and regulations;Events or circumstances could occur which could create bad publicity for us or for types of merchandise offered in our stores which may negatively impact our business results including sales;Infringement of our intellectual property, including the Big Lots trademarks, could dilute our value;Our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing, and promotional programs; andOther risks described from time to time in our filings with the SEC.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.Item 2. PropertiesRetail OperationsAll of our stores are located in North America, predominantly in strip shopping centers, and have an average store size of approximately 29,900 square feet, of which an average of 21,600 square feet is selling square feet. The average cost to open a new store in a leased facility during 2011 was approximately $1.2 million, including cost of inventory. Except for 54 owned sites in our U.S. segment, all of our stores are leased. In 2011, we acquired one store property for $2.5 million. The associated store has not yet opened for operation, and therefore is excluded from our store counts at January 28, 2012. The 54 owned stores are located in the following states:State Stores OwnedArizona3California39Colorado3Florida2Louisiana1New Mexico2Ohio1Texas3 Total54Store leases generally obligate us for fixed monthly rental payments plus the payment, in most cases, of our applicable portion of real estate taxes, common area maintenance costs (CAM), and property insurance. Some leases require the payment of a percentage of sales in addition to minimum rent. Such payments generally are required only when sales exceed a specified level. Our typical store lease is for an initial minimum term of five to ten years with multiple five year renewal options. Eighty store leases have sales termination clauses which can result in our exiting a location at our option if certain sales volume results are not achieved.13Table of ContentsThe following table summarizes the number of store lease expirations in each of the next five fiscal years and the total thereafter. In addition, as stated above, many of our store leases have renewal options. The table also includes the number of leases that are scheduled to expire each year that do not have a renewal option. The information includes stores with more than one lease and leases for stores not yet open. It excludes 15 month to month leases and 54 owned locations. Fiscal Year:Expiring LeasesLeases Without Options201224739201330341201428731201522927201624135Thereafter2088Warehouse and DistributionAt January 28, 2012, we owned or leased approximately 9.4 million square feet of distribution center and warehouse space. We own and operate five regional distribution centers strategically placed across the United States in Ohio, California, Alabama, Oklahoma, and Pennsylvania. We lease and operate two regional distribution centers in Canada located in British Columbia and Ontario. The regional distribution centers in our U.S. segment utilize warehouse management technology, which enables high accuracy and efficient processing of merchandise from vendors to our retail stores. The combined output of our regional distribution centers was approximately 2.7 million cartons per week in 2011. Certain vendors deliver merchandise directly to our stores when it supports our operational goal to move merchandise from our vendors to the sales floor in the most efficient manner.The number of owned and leased distribution centers and warehouse space and the corresponding square footage of the facilities by state and province at January 28, 2012, were as follows: Square FootageState / ProvinceOwnedLeasedTotalOwnedLeasedTotal (Square footage in thousands)U.S. segment: Ohio113,5593,559California111,4231,423Alabama111,4111,411Oklahoma111,2971,297Pennsylvania111,2951,295Sub total558,9858,985Canadian segment: British Columbia11105105Ontario11261261Sub total22366366Total5278,9853669,351Corporate OfficesWe own the facility in Columbus, Ohio that serves as our general office for our U.S. associates. We lease the facility in Brantford, Ontario that serves as our general office for Big Lots Canada.14Table of ContentsItem 3. Legal ProceedingsNo response is required under Item 103 of Regulation S K. For a discussion of certain litigated matters, see note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.Item 4. Mine Safety DisclosuresNone.Supplemental Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant Our executive officers at January 28, 2012 were as follows:NameAgeOffices HeldOfficer SinceSteven S. Fishman60Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President2005Lisa M. Bachmann50Executive Vice President, Supply Chain Management and Chief Information Officer2002Joe R. Cooper54Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; President of Big Lots Canada, Inc.2000Charles W. Haubiel II46Executive Vice President, Legal and Real Estate, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary1999John C. Martin61Executive Vice President, Administration2003Douglas N. Wurl50Executive Vice President, Merchandising2011Robert C. Claxton57Senior Vice President, Marketing2005Timothy A. Johnson44Senior Vice President, Finance2004Norman J. Rankin55Senior Vice President, Big Lots Capital and Wholesale1998Robert S. Segal57Senior Vice President, General Merchandise Manager2005Steven R. Smart52Senior Vice President, General Merchandise Manager2003Paul A. Schroeder46Vice President, Controller2005Steven S. Fishman became Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President in July 2005. Before joining us, Mr. Fishman was President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Restructuring Officer of Rhodes, Inc., a furniture retailer which filed for bankruptcy on November 4, 2004; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Franks Nursery & Crafts, Inc., a lawn and garden specialty retailer which filed for bankruptcy on September 8, 2004; and President and Founder of SSF Resources, Inc., an investment and consulting firm.Lisa M. Bachmann is responsible for information technology, merchandise planning and allocation, and distribution and transportation services. Ms. Bachmann was promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2010, and assumed responsibility for distribution and transportation services. Ms. Bachman assumed the responsibility for information technology in August 2005. Ms. Bachman joined us as Senior Vice President of Merchandise Planning, Allocation and Presentation in March 2002. Prior to joining us, Ms. Bachmann was Senior Vice President of Planning and Allocation of Ames Department Stores, Inc., a discount retailer.Joe R. Cooper is responsible for our Canadian operations and our treasury, tax, investor relations, loss prevention and risk management, as well as the reporting, planning, and control functions of the business. Mr. Cooper was appointed President of Big Lots Canada, Inc. in July 2011. Mr. Cooper was promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2010, and assumed responsibility for loss prevention and risk management. Prior to that Mr. Cooper was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in February 2004. Mr. Cooper joined us as Vice President of Strategic Planning and Investor Relations in May 2000. In July 2000, he assumed responsibility for the treasury department and was appointed Vice President, Treasurer. Charles W. Haubiel II is responsible for legal and real estate affairs. He was promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2010 and assumed responsibility for real estate in January 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Haubiel was promoted to Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in November 2004. Mr. Haubiel joined us in 1997 as Senior Staff Counsel and was promoted to Director, Corporate Counsel and Assistant Secretary in 1999, and to Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in 2000. 15Table of ContentsJohn C. Martin is responsible for store operations and human resources. Mr. Martin assumed his current position of Executive Vice President, Administration in April 2011. Prior to that Mr. Martin was Executive Vice President, Merchandising, where he was responsible for merchandising. Prior to joining us in 2003, Mr. Martin was President of Garden Ridge Corporation, an arts and crafts retailer which filed for bankruptcy on February 2, 2004. Mr. Martin also served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Michaels Stores, Inc., an arts and crafts retailer, and President, Retail Stores Division of OfficeMax Incorporated, an office supply retailer.Douglas N. Wurl is responsible for merchandising. Mr. Wurl joined us in April of 2011. Prior to joining us, Mr. Wurl was the Vice President, General Merchandise Manager, Business Unit President, SHC Home Division at Sears Holding Corporation, a retailer. Mr. Wurl also served as Senior Vice President, General Merchandise Manager at Shopko Operating Co., LLC, a discount retailer.Robert C. Claxton is responsible for marketing, merchandise presentation, and sales promotion. Prior to joining us in 2005, Mr. Claxton served as General Manager and Executive Vice President of Initiative Media, an advertising and communications company, and Chief Marketing Officer and Senior Vice President of Montgomery Ward, a retailer.Timothy A. Johnson is responsible for accounting and financial control, tax, internal audit, financial planning and analysis, and investor relations. Mr. Johnson was promoted to Senior Vice President, Finance in July 2011. Prior to that Mr. Johnson was promoted to Vice President, Strategic Planning and Investor Relations in February 2004. He joined us in 2000 as Director of Strategic Planning.Norman J. Rankin is responsible for alternative product sourcing and wholesale operations. He assumed his current role in January 2008, after serving as Senior Vice President, General Merchandise Manager with responsibility for consumables and hardware. Mr. Rankin joined us in 1998 as Vice President, Consumables upon our merger with Mac Frugals Bargains Close outs, Inc., a discount retailer. In 1999, Mr. Rankin was promoted to Senior Vice President.Robert S. Segal is responsible for merchandising in the furniture, home, and seasonal categories. Mr. Segal joined us in 2004 as Vice President, Divisional Merchandise Manager, Furniture, and was promoted to Senior Vice President, General Merchandise Manager for the furniture and home categories in January 2008. He assumed responsibility for the seasonal category in March 2010. Prior to joining us, Mr. Segal served as Divisional Vice President, Housewares and Home of Shopko Operating Co., LLC, a discount retailer, from 1995 to 2004.Steven R. Smart is responsible for merchandising in the consumables, play n wear and hardlines & other categories. Mr. Smart joined us in May 2003 as Vice President, Divisional Merchandise Manager, Consumables and was promoted to his current role in March 2010. Prior to joining us, Mr. Smart served as Senior Vice President, Retail of Fleming, a wholesaler, which filed for bankruptcy in 2003.Paul A. Schroeder is responsible for internal and external financial reporting and accounting operations including payroll, accounts payable, and inventory control. Mr. Schroeder joined us as Director, Accounting Operations in April 2005, and was promoted to Vice President, Controller in September 2005. Prior to joining us, Mr. Schroeder was Director of Finance of American Signature, Inc., a furniture retailer, and held various finance positions with Limited Brands, Inc., a retailer.16Table of ContentsPart II. Other InformationItem 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesOur common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol BIG. The following table reflects the high and low sales prices per common share for our common shares as reported on the NYSE composite tape for the fiscal periods indicated: 2011 2010 High Low High LowFirst Quarter$44.44 $31.57 $41.42 $28.51Second Quarter41.42 30.83 38.92 31.27Third Quarter38.91 28.89 35.25 30.02Fourth Quarter$41.81 $35.65 $32.78 $27.82Our Board of Directors historically has authorized reinvesting available cash in capital expenditures for growth opportunities, improving the Companys information systems, and maintaining our assets. After making such investments, the Company has utilized its excess cash for share repurchase programs. We historically have not paid dividends and our Board of Directors is not currently considering any change in this policy. In the event that we change our policy, any future cash dividend payments would be determined by our Board of Directors taking into account business conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial requirements and condition, opportunities for reinvesting cash, and other factors.On December 4, 2009, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program providing for the repurchase of up to $150.0 million of our common shares. On March 2, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a $250.0 million increase to our repurchase program bringing the total authorization to $400.0 million (collectively the 2010 Repurchase Program). On May 25, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program providing for the repurchase of up to $400.0 million of our common shares ("2011 Repurchase Program"). During the 2011, we purchased 11.0 million common shares having an aggregate cost of $359.3 million with a volume weighted average price paid per share of $32.79. As a result of the repurchases during 2011, the 2010 Repurchase Program was exhausted.Our remaining repurchase authorization under the 2011 Repurchase Program was approximately $98.5 million at January 28, 2012, and is available to be utilized to repurchase shares in the open market and or in privately negotiated transactions at our discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors.The repurchased common shares were placed into treasury and may be used for general corporate purposes including the issuance of shares related to equity compensation plans.The following table sets forth information regarding our repurchase of our common shares during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011:(In thousands, except price per share data) Period(a) Total Number of Shares Purchased (b) Average Price Paid per Share(c) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(d) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or ProgramsOctober 30, 2011 November 26, 2011 $$144,737November 27, 2011 December 24, 20111,257 36.791,25798,501December 25, 2011 January 28, 201298,501 Total1,257 $36.791,257$98,50117Table of ContentsAt the close of trading on the NYSE on March 21, 2012, there were approximately 940 registered holders of record of our common shares.The following graph and table compares, for the five fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, the cumulative total shareholder return for our common shares, the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 500 Retailing Index. Measurement points are the last trading day of each of our fiscal years ended February 2, 2008, January 31, 2009, January 30, 2010, January 29, 2011 and January 28, 2012. The graph and table assume that $100 was invested on February 3, 2007, in each of our common shares, the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 500 Retailing Index and reinvestment of any dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph and table is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Indexed Returns Years Ended Base Period JanuaryJanuaryJanuaryJanuaryJanuaryJanuaryCompany / Index200720082009201020112012Big Lots, Inc.$100.00$67.35$51.73$109.27$122.38$153.85S&P 500 Index100.0098.2059.5479.2796.12101.24S&P 500 Retailing Index$100.00$81.62$50.84$79.07$100.55$114.0518Table of ContentsItem 6. Selected Financial DataThe following statements of operations and balance sheet data have been derived from our consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included herein. Fiscal Year (a) 2011 (e)201020092008 (b)2007 (c)(In thousands, except per share amounts and store counts) Net sales$5,202,269$4,952,244$4,726,772$4,645,283$4,656,302Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation expense shown separately below)3,131,8622,939,7932,807,4662,787,8542,815,959Gross margin2,070,4072,012,4511,919,3061,857,4291,840,343Selling and administrative expenses1,634,5321,576,5001,532,3561,523,8821,515,379Depreciation expense90,28078,60674,90478,62488,484Gain on sale of real estate(12,964)Operating profit345,595357,345325,010254,923236,480Interest expense(3,530)(2,573)(1,840)(5,282)(2,513)Other income (expense)(173)612175655,236Income from continuing operations before income taxes341,892355,384323,345249,706239,203Income tax expense134,657132,837121,97594,90888,023Income from continuing operations207,235222,547201,370154,798151,180Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax(171)(23)(1,001)(3,251)7,281Net income$207,064$222,524$200,369$151,547$158,461Earnings per common share basic: Continuing operations$3.03$2.87$2.47$1.91$1.49Discontinued operations(0.01)(0.04)0.07 $3.03$2.87$2.45$1.87$1.56Earnings per common share diluted: Continuing operations$2.99$2.83$2.44$1.89$1.47Discontinued operations(0.01)(0.04)0.07 $2.98$2.83$2.42$1.85$1.55Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic68,31677,59681,61981,111101,393Diluted69,41978,58182,68182,076102,542Balance sheet data: Total assets$1,641,310$1,619,599$1,669,493$1,432,458$1,443,815Working capital (d)421,836509,788580,446355,776390,766Cash and cash equivalents68,547177,539283,73334,77337,131Long term obligations under bank credit facility65,900163,700Shareholders equity$823,233$946,793$1,001,412$774,845$638,486Cash flow data: Cash provided by operating activities$318,471$315,257$392,026$211,063$307,932Cash used in investing activities$(120,712)$(114,552)$(77,937)$(88,192)$(58,764)Store data: Total gross square footage45,78042,03740,59139,88840,195Total selling square footage33,11930,21029,17628,67428,902Stores opened during the fiscal year928052217Stores acquired during the fiscal year89Stores closed during the fiscal year(46)(43)(30)(35)(29)Stores open at end of the fiscal year1,5331,3981,3611,3391,35319Table of Contents(a)All periods presented are comprised of 52 weeks.(b)We adopted the measurement date provisions of guidance under Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 715 30 35, Defined Benefit Plans Pension (Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans) in 2008, which resulted in an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss of $66 ($40 net of tax). (c)We adopted guidance under ASC 740, Income Taxes (FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of SFAS No. 109), in the first fiscal quarter of 2007, on a prospective basis.(d)For 2008, working capital included $61.7 million for current maturities under bank credit facility because the 2004 Credit Agreement terminated in 2009. (e)On July 18, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of Liquidation World Inc., whose results are included in the consolidated results since that date.Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewThe discussion and analysis presented below should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes. Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10 K for a discussion of forward looking statements and certain risk factors that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and or liquidity.Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31, which results in some fiscal years with 52 weeks and some with 53 weeks. Fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 were each comprised of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2012 will be comprised of 53 weeks.Operating Results SummaryThe following are the results from 2011 that we believe are key indicators of both our consolidated and segment operating performance when compared to 2010.Consolidated HighlightsNet sales increased $250.0 million, or 5.0%.Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased from $2.83 per share to $2.99 per share.Inventory increased by 8.3%, or $63.1 million, to $825.2 million from 2010.We acquired Liquidation World Inc.We acquired 11.0 million of our outstanding common shares for $359.3 million under the 2011 Repurchase Program.U.S. Segment HighlightsComparable store sales for stores open at least two years at the beginning of 2011 increased 0.1%.Gross margin dollars increased $33.6 million, while gross margin rate decreased 80 basis points from 40.6% to 39.8% of sales.Selling and administrative expenses increased $23.3 million. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses improved by decreasing 70 basis points to 31.1% of sales.Operating profit rate decreased 20 basis points to 7.0%.Canadian Segment HighlightsNet sales from the date of acquisition (July 18, 2012) through January 28, 2012 were $62.1 million.Operating loss was $12.2 million.20Table of ContentsThe following table compares components of our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net sales: 201120102009Net sales100.0 %100.0 %100.0 %Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation expense shown separately below)60.259.459.4Gross margin39.840.640.6Selling and administrative expenses31.431.832.4Depreciation expense1.71.61.6Gain on sale of real estate0.00.0(0.3)Operating profit6.67.26.9Interest expense(0.1)(0.1)(0.0)Other income (expense)(0.0)0.00.0Income from continuing operations before income taxes6.67.26.8Income tax expense2.62.72.6Income from continuing operations4.04.54.3Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax(0.0)(0.0)(0.0)Net income4.0 %4.5 %4.2 %See the discussion below under the captions 2011 Compared To 2010 and 2010 Compared To 2009 for additional details regarding the specific components of our operating results.Selling and administrative expenses in 2009 were increased by $4.0 million (10 basis points), pretax, due to a legal settlement agreement. In addition, the sale in 2009 of a company owned and operated store in California resulted in a pretax gain of $13.0 million (30 basis points). SeasonalityAs discussed in Item 1. Business Seasonality of this Form 10 K, our financial results fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on various factors such as timing of new or closed stores, timing and extent of advertisements and promotions, and timing of holidays. We expect the Christmas holiday selling season to continue to produce a significant portion of our sales and operating profits. If our sales performance is significantly better or worse during the Christmas holiday selling season, we would expect a more pronounced impact on our annual financial results than if our sales performance is significantly better or worse in a different season. The following table sets forth the seasonality of net sales and operating profit for 2011, 2010, and 2009 by fiscal quarter: First Second Third FourthFiscal Year 2011 Net sales as a percentage of full year23.6%22.4%21.9%32.1%Operating profit as a percentage of full year25.017.32.655.1Fiscal Year 2010 Net sales as a percentage of full year24.9%23.1%21.3%30.7%Operating profit as a percentage of full year25.217.77.549.6Fiscal Year 2009 Net sales as a percentage of full year24.1%23.0%21.9%31.0%Operating profit as a percentage of full year18.514.714.652.221Table of ContentsOperating StrategyIn 2005, Mr. Fishman joined the Company as its Chief Executive Officer and introduced our current operating strategy, the Whats Important Now Strategy (WIN Strategy). The WIN Strategy focuses on three key elements of our business: merchandising, real estate, and cost structure. The WIN Strategy was designed to increase the operating profit performance of our existing store base, which has occurred from 2007 to 2011. In 2009, driven by both the improvements in our store productivity and the softening of the commercial real estate market, we expanded our WIN Strategy to also include the pursuit of net new store growth. In 2011, our Board of Directors approved the purchase of Liquidation World Inc., a Canadian closeout retailer, with the expectation that the management team could implement the key elements of the WIN Strategy to turn around its performance. The acquisition was part of the net store growth component of the WIN Strategy. Over the past three years, we have generated approximately $1,026 million of cash of which approximately $316 million was reinvested in our business through capital expenditures or investments in our acquired subsidiary and $701 million was returned to shareholders through publicly announced share repurchase programs. In 2012, we anticipate the key elements of the WIN Strategy will remain consistent, including the net store growth phase. We anticipate that the commercial real estate market will continue to provide us with real estate opportunities at prices that are appropriate for our financial model and return on capital requirements. Given the strength of our financial performance and the availability of real estate in markets we serve, we believe we will continue to open new stores.In 2012, we anticipate:Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations to be $3.35 to $3.45, including the expected impact of a non cash, non recurring charge of $0.05 per diluted share related to a change in accounting principle associated with the implementation of our new retail inventory systems in the U.S. during the first quarter of 2012.Net sales increase in both the U.S. and Canada:U.S. comparable stores sales increase of 2% to 3% and an increase of 8% to 9% in total net sales in the U.S.Canada sales of $140 million to $150 million, a $78 million to $88 million increase from 2011, which was a partial year.Opening 90 new stores and closing 45 stores, for net growth of 45 stores or 3%, in the U.S.Cash provided by operating activities of approximately $330 million to $335 million less capital expenditures of approximately $130 million to $135 million resulting in approximately $200 million of cash available for further investment in our business.The remaining $98.5 million of share purchase authorization under the 2011 Repurchase Program may be utilized in the open market and or in privately negotiated transactions at our discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors. The following sections provide additional discussion and analysis of our WIN Strategy with respect to merchandising, real estate, and cost structure in our U.S. segment and the testing and implementation of the WIN Strategy in our Canadian segment. The 2011 Compared To 2010 section below provides additional discussion and analysis of the impact of these strategies on our financial performance and the assumptions and expectations upon which we are basing our guidance for our future results.U.S. SegmentMerchandisingFrom a merchandising perspective, our competitive positioning as the largest broadline closeout retailer in the U.S. affords us a strategic advantage when sourcing merchandise for our stores. We source our merchandise in three key ways: Manufacturers and vendors have closeout merchandise for a number of different reasons including other retailers canceling orders, other retailers going out of business, marketing or packaging changes, a new product launch that has failed, and various other reasons. In these situations, we are able to source product at a discounted cost and offer significant value to our customers. We currently have thousands of vendor relationships for closeout inventory that have been developed over many years. We believe these relationships and the size and financial strength of our company limit the opportunities for other competitors to enter our retail segment. 22Table of ContentsFor certain merchandise categories, there is not always an abundant supply of closeout inventory. In these situations, we may work with vendors to develop product, some of which is imported. Imports total approximately 25% to 30% of our merchandise sales annually. Categories with the highest concentration of imports include Seasonal, Furniture, and to a lesser extent the Home category and the toys department. Our merchandise mix also includes replenishable and private or captive label products. This type of merchandise is consistently available, and as a result, it can be offered in our stores on a regular basis. This merchandise has many of the same characteristics as our closeout merchandise but is reorderable upon demand. Our prices for replenishable and private or captive label products are generally positioned below our competition, but to a lesser extent than our closeout sourced merchandise.We offer six major merchandise categories in our store: Consumables, Furniture, Home, Seasonal, Play n Wear, and Hardlines & Other. Consumables is the largest category at 30.6% of sales in 2011 and Hardlines & Other is the smallest category at 8.3% of sales in 2011. In the third quarter of 2011, we realigned our merchandise categories to be consistent with the realignment of our merchandising team and changes to our management reporting. Prior to the third quarter of 2011, we reported sales in the former Hardlines category and the former Other category. We moved the electronics department out of the former Hardlines category and repositioned it in the former Other category, which was renamed Play n Wear. We also moved the results of certain large closeout deals that are typically acquired through our alternate product sourcing operations out of the former Other category and repositioned them in the former Hardlines category, which was renamed Hardlines & Other.In recent years, our merchandising strategies to increase sales have been predominantly focused on increasing the average transaction value. We have employed two primary methods to accomplish this goal: (1) drive more units per transaction, and (2) grow the average item retail price by offering our customers better quality merchandise, better values, and more prominent brand name products. This approach is consistent with our customer research that suggests that our core customer recognizes quality and brands and is willing to pay a higher retail price, so long as the value or cost savings is significant compared to what other retailers are offering. This strategy has resulted in fewer cartons processed by our distribution centers and stores and has achieved positive comparable store sales on an annual basis.While executing our WIN Strategy, we have made measurable progress towards our goals of growing sales per selling square foot (which increased from $146 per square foot in 2005 to $166 per square foot in 2011, for our U.S. segment) and increasing gross margin dollars (which increased from $1,732 million in 2005 to $2,046 million in 2011). From a merchandising perspective, our goal in 2012 is to continue to provide extreme value, improved quality, and expand the presence of recognizable brand name merchandise in our stores. We expect our major merchandise categories will remain the same as in prior years but the percentage of business by category may fluctuate based on customer demand and the availability of compelling deals that we are able to acquire. Strategically, we anticipate that opportunities exist to continue to grow the basket through the same successful initiatives that benefited results over the last few years. Our marketing efforts involve a mix of printed circulars, in store marketing, television, email and online advertising. Much of our marketing is based on information that we have learned about our customers, principally through customer surveys and information gathered through our rewards program. Based on this information, we believe over 70% of our core customers come to our stores without a shopping list or without a specific item or brand in mind to purchase. We believe value dominates top of mind awareness as our customers look to us for savings. In 2011, we made investments to improve our in store signage and merchandising displays, with a focus on our comparative pricing to competitors. We expect to continue to develop these efforts in 2012.We continue to market to our Buzz Club members, by offering a free online membership and alerting them to new merchandise and offerings in our stores. In 2009, we launched our Buzz Club Rewards program, which is our first true loyalty card program. After enrolling in the Buzz Club Rewards program, the customer receives a loyalty card which may be presented and scanned at the register at time of purchase. After making the required number of qualifying purchases, the Buzz Club Rewards member earns a coupon on their account for a future discount in our stores. Additionally, members may receive marketing information and other targeted promotional materials. 23Table of ContentsFrom a marketing perspective in 2012, there are four primary programs designed to continue to grow sales:First, using our printed advertising circulars and promotional pricing to create excitement surrounding the deals that we offer. The excitement created by such deals is predominantly achieved through price but the uniqueness of an item may also be a factor.Second, through the use of television commercials displayed nationwide on both national and cable networks, we will promote our brand and, from time to time, promote items or special discounts in our stores.Next, our signage initiatives that focus on value and extreme price savings are designed to continue our effort to reinforce our niche in low everyday price retailing.Finally, the use of our Buzz Club Rewards program is a key driver to furthering our focus on our core shoppers and expanding our customer base. We believe we are gaining insights about communication with this customer segment and will increase our digital communication in 2012 through weekend specials or shop early offers to enjoy early discounts. Additionally, we continue to pursue new customer sign ups at our stores in order to grow our base of members. At January 28, 2012, our Buzz Club Rewards program membership totaled 11.5 million members. From a store operations perspective, we began the company wide rollout of our Ready for Business program in 2009. The program focuses primarily on servicing our customers and creating operational efficiencies, based on certain performance criteria and standards centered on improving the consistency of visual presentation, merchandise recovery efforts, and overall store cleanliness. Ready for Business also focuses on development of our field management team and improving our training programs, which is key to our store growth strategy. As we continue to expand the number of our stores, we have been working to develop the depth of our field management team in order to internally promote and provide opportunities to qualified internal candidates who have a strong understanding of our business model. We believe our focus on standards and investments made in talent development have improved the performance of our new stores during their initial months of operation.In 2012, we have three significant training and development programs, which are either new or being tested, designed to identify and develop the management ranks within our store operations at all levels: assistant store manager, store manager, and district manager. We will continue to refine our Ready for Business standards through streamlining our communications, monitoring our field management span of control, and continuing to review our store layouts in order to enhance our customer service levels.Real EstateWe strategically chose to enter a store growth phase in 2009, as a result of improvements in our store productivity, increased profitability at a consolidated level as a result of the WIN Strategy and the softening of the real estate market. Since the beginning of 2009, we have opened 224 new stores, and closed 112 stores, which has resulted in a net increase of 112 stores, or 8%. The majority of our store openings were what we refer to as traditional stores, meaning stores in secondary locations and primarily in retail strip centers. In 2009, we began a new initiative that we refer to as A locations, which are stores with a higher occupancy cost, but that are generally located in the one of the best retail centers within a given market with either a better co tenant mix, better income demographics, or both. We had 66 "A" locations in operation at January 28, 2012.In 2012, we plan to continue our store growth efforts by maintaining the level of new store openings at approximately 90 new stores and closing approximately 45 stores, or a 3% increase to the current store base. We anticipate approximately 70 to 75 of our store openings this year will be traditional stores and approximately 15 to 20 of our store openings this year will be A location stores, based on expected market availability for our type and size of locations.As discussed in Item 2. Properties, of this Form 10 K, we have 247 store leases which will expire in 2012. During 2012, we anticipate closing approximately 45 of those locations. The majority of these closings will be the result of our choice to relocate the store to an improved location nearby. The balance of the closings will be the result of either a lack of renewal options or our belief that we can no longer generate an acceptable financial return in the location. For our remaining store locations with fiscal 2012 lease expirations, we expect to exercise our renewal option or negotiate more favorable lease renewal terms sufficient enough to continue to enable us to achieve an acceptable return on our investment. 24Table of ContentsCost StructureOur goal each year is to continue to generate expense leverage (lower expenses as a percent of net sales). We believe that several operational changes we have made, which we continue to refine, have significantly contributed to the achievement of our expense leverage goal. Some of the operational changes made include:Controlled inventory levels at our stores and regional distribution centers.Purchased and distributed merchandise to our stores in more optimal quantities and pack sizes to minimize handling in our distribution centers and stores.Timed receipt of merchandise in stores closer to the expected display dates in order to avoid excessive handling of merchandise.Increased the percentage of merchandise that arrives in our stores pre ticketed and pre packaged for efficient display and sale. Refined our staffing and payroll scheduling models in our stores.Invested in energy management systems to actively control utility costs, while reducing energy consumption.Implemented several initiatives which lowered our distribution and outbound transportation expenses, including re negotiating carrier contracts or changing carriers and expanding our back haul volumes.As a result of these operational changes and certain other initiatives in the business, our overall expenses as a percent of sales have declined by 570 basis points since 2005 (2011 expense rate of 32.8% versus 2005 expense rate of 38.5%). Canadian SegmentAs our Canadian segment is also a broadline closeout retailer, we will be implementing merchandising strategies similar to those in our U.S. segment. Accordingly, while our strategy from a merchandise mix perspective will be fairly similar with our U.S. segment, the percent mix may vary based on seasonality, availability of product, and adjustments made for local markets. We believe the merchandising categories of goods sold in our U.S. segment have been core to our success, and consumers in Canada will respond to our extreme value proposition. Additionally, many of the vendors with whom we have strong relationships in the U.S. also have Canadian operations in need of an established closeout partner; therefore, we believe we have potential access to similar merchandise offerings in order to execute this strategy. During 2012, we will be focused on: (1) continuing to increase our inventory to the appropriate levels, while developing a broad assortment of merchandise; (2) building and training our store teams; (3) assessing the real estate and cost structure elements of our new business as we prepare for new store growth currently planned to begin in 2013; and (4) executing certain test and learn activities to facilitate key strategic initiatives.Discontinued OperationsWe continue to incur an insignificant amount of costs on the 130 stores we closed in 2005 that we have classified as discontinued operations. We also report certain activity related to our prior ownership of the KB Toys business in discontinued operations. See note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of all of our discontinued operations. Share Repurchase ProgramIn December 2009, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program providing for the repurchase of up to $150.0 million of our common shares. On March 2, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a $250.0 million increase to our repurchase program bringing the total authorization to $400.0 million. During 2010, we acquired 10.5 million of our outstanding common shares for $342.2 million under the 2010 Repurchase Program. On May 25, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program providing for the repurchase of up to $400.0 million of our common shares. During 2011, we acquired 11.0 million of our outstanding common shares in the open market for approximately $359.3 million, at a volume weighted average price of $32.79. As a result of the repurchases in 2011, we exhausted our authorization under the 2010 Repurchase Program and utilized $301.5 million under the 2011 Repurchase Program.25Table of ContentsOur remaining repurchase authorization under the 2011 Repurchase Program was approximately $98.5 million at January 28, 2012, and is available to be utilized to repurchase shares in the open market and or in privately negotiated transactions at our discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors. Common shares acquired through the 2011 Repurchase Program are held in treasury at cost and are available to meet obligations under equity compensation plans and for general corporate purposes. The 2011 Repurchase Program has no scheduled termination date and will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations or, if needed, by drawing on our 2011 Credit Agreement. 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 U.S. SegmentNet SalesNet sales by merchandise category, in dollars and as a percentage of total net sales, and net sales change in dollars and percentage in 2011 compared to 2010 were as follows: 2011 2010 Change($ in thousands) Consumables$1,571,77130.6% $1,452,78329.3% $118,9888.2 %Furniture883,34117.2 829,72516.8 53,6166.5Home799,49415.5 783,86015.8 15,6342.0Play n Wear776,44515.1 811,75016.4 (35,305)(4.3)Seasonal683,49813.3 642,22013.0 41,2786.4Hardlines & Other425,6158.3 431,9068.7 (6,291)(1.5) Net sales$5,140,164100.0% $4,952,244100.0% $187,9203.8 % In the third quarter of 2011, we realigned our merchandise categories to be consistent with the realignment of our merchandising team and changes to our management reporting. Fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 sales results have been reclassified to reflect the realignment.Net sales increased $187.9 million or 3.8% to $5,140.2 million in 2011, compared to $4,952.2 million in 2010. The increase in net sales was principally due to the net addition of 53 stores since the end of 2010, which increased net sales by $179.6 million and a 0.1% increase in comparable store sales, which increased net sales by $8.3 million. Our comparable store sales are calculated by using all stores that were open for at least two fiscal years as of the beginning of the current fiscal year. The Consumables category experienced increases in nearly all departments, in particular food, as customers continue to respond to our new assortments and specialty offerings. The primary drivers of the sales increase in the Furniture category were the upholstery and mattresses departments, partially offset by a decrease in case goods as 2010 benefited from a few large closeout deals. The Seasonal category increase was driven by strong sales of Christmas trim and summer related merchandise, partially offset by a decrease in our fall seasonal departments. The Home category experienced growth in the domestics department, where new merchandising initiatives positively impacted sales throughout the majority of the year. The growth in the domestics department was partially offset by comparable store sales declines in most other departments. The decrease in the Play n Wear category was primarily driven by lower sales in toys and the apparel departments, partially offset by an increase in the electronics department. We allocated less space and reduced our assortment of toys and apparel during 2011, and allocated a portion of this space to electronics based on customer demand. The decrease in the Hardlines & Other category was driven by decreases in our tools and paint departments as less selling square footage was allocated to these departments in 2011 as compared to 2010. In addition, the Hardlines & Other category was impacted by the absence of certain drugstore closeout deals in 2011.For 2012, we expect sales to increase 8% to 9%, driven by net store growth of approximately 3%, comparable store sales growth of 2% to 3%, and the positive impact on sales of one additional week in 2012, as 2012 is a 53 week fiscal year.26Table of ContentsGross MarginGross margin dollars increased $33.6 million or 1.7% to $2,046.1 million in 2011, compared to $2,012.5 million in 2010. The increase in gross margin dollars was principally due to the increase in net sales which increased gross margin dollars by approximately $76.4 million. Partially offsetting the increase in net sales was the decrease in gross margin rate which decreased gross margin dollars by approximately $42.8 million. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased 80 basis points to 39.8% in 2011 compared to 40.6% in 2010. The gross margin rate decrease was principally due to the unfavorable merchandise mix impact caused by the strong sales of our lower margin Consumables category and electronics department, lower initial mark up on merchandise receipts, and higher shrink costs.For 2012, we expect our gross margin rate to be slightly higher than 2011, as we anticipate slightly lower levels of markdowns will be necessary to achieve our planned sales volume. Selling and Administrative ExpensesSelling and administrative expenses were $1,599.8 million in 2011, compared to $1,576.5 million in 2010. The increase of $23.3 million or 1.5% was primarily due to increases in rent expense of $14.7 million, store payroll expense of $9.3 million, advertising expense of $6.1 million, and outbound transportation expense of $4.2 million, partially offset by lower bonus expense of $17.1 million. Store payroll and store rents increased primarily due to the net increase of 53 stores compared to the end of 2010. The increase in advertising expense was driven by increased print distribution costs associated with new store growth, the roll out of new in store point of purchase presentations, and support for promotional events. The increase in outbound transportation costs was largely driven by the net increase of 53 stores along with higher diesel fuel prices. The decrease in bonus expense was directly related to lower financial performance during 2011 as compared to the targets in our 2011 operating plan and to 2010, which outperformed the targets in our 2010 operating plan.As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased by 70 basis points to 31.1% in 2011 compared to 31.8% in 2010. The decrease of 0.7% was primarily due to the effect of the increase in sales of 3.8% as selling and administrative expense dollars only increased 1.5% as discussed above. Our future selling and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales rate is dependent upon many factors including our level of net sales, our ability to implement additional efficiencies, principally in our store and distribution center operations, and fluctuating commodity prices, such as diesel fuel, which directly affects our outbound transportation cost. For 2012, we are forecasting an expense rate similar to or slightly higher than the rate achieved in 2011. Store expenses, distribution and transportation expenses, utilities, and credit card fees are expected to leverage as dollar growth in these areas is forecasted to be at a slower rate than our anticipated sales growth. Additionally, expenses are forecasted to leverage from the one additional week in 2012, which is a 53 week fiscal year. Offsetting this leverage, we believe costs will increase and deleverage in areas such as depreciation, incentive bonus expense, and share based compensation expense. Depreciation ExpenseDepreciation expense increased $9.9 million to $88.5 million in 2011 compared to $78.6 million in 2010. The increase is directly related to our new store growth, investments in systems, and capital spending to support and maintain our stores and distribution centers. Depreciation expense as a percentage of net sales increased by 10 basis points compared to 2010.For 2012, we expect capital expenditures of approximately $130 million to $135 million, which includes opening 90 new stores. Using this assumption and the run rate of depreciation on our existing property and equipment, we expect 2012 depreciation expense to be approximately $105 million, which would represent an increase from the $88.5 million of depreciation expense in 2011.Canadian SegmentWe consolidated the results of our Canadian segment from the date of acquisition (July 18, 2011) through the end of the year. Our Canadian segments net sales were $62.1 million, which exceeded our original expectations, as customers responded to fresh, new merchandise with an improved value proposition, particularly in furniture, electronics, toys, and Christmas trim. The higher than expected net sales resulted in a smaller than expected operating loss of $12.2 million. 27Table of ContentsOther Performance FactorsInterest ExpenseInterest expense increased $0.9 million to $3.5 million in 2011 compared to $2.6 million in 2010. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to prepayment fees incurred in connection with our repayment of the notes payable we assumed in the acquisition of Liquidation World Inc. We had total average borrowings (including capital leases) of $88.2 million in 2011 compared to total average borrowings of $24.0 million in 2010. Borrowings increased as a result of our execution of the 2011 Repurchase Program and the acquisition of Liquidation World Inc. Income TaxesThe effective income tax rate in 2011 and 2010 for income from continuing operations was 39.4% and 37.4%, respectively. The higher rate in 2011 is primarily due to a valuation allowance relative to the deferred tax benefit of the loss generated by our Canadian segment, the effect of U.S. income taxes on a lower pretax income base (driven by the loss generated by our Canadian segment) and a net decrease in favorable discrete income tax items. 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Net SalesNet sales by merchandise category, in dollars and as a percentage of total net sales, and net sales change in dollars and percentage from 2010 compared to 2009 were as follows:2010 2009 Change(in thousands) Consumables$1,452,78329.3% $1,456,37030.8% $(3,587)(0.2)%Furniture829,72516.8 716,78515.2 112,94015.8Play n Wear811,75016.4 806,24717.1 5,5030.7Home783,86015.8 717,74415.2 66,1169.2Seasonal642,22013.0 591,32112.5 50,8998.6Hardlines & Other431,9068.7 438,3059.2 (6,399)(1.5) Net sales$4,952,244100.0% $4,726,772100.0% $225,4724.8 %Net sales increased $225.5 million or 4.8% to $4,952.2 million in 2010 compared to $4,726.8 million in 2009. The increase in net sales was principally driven by the increase in net stores in 2010, which increased net sales by $114.3 million, and a 2.5% increase in comparable store sales, which increased net sales by $111.1 million. The average number of stores in operation throughout 2010 and 2009 was approximately 1,380 stores and 1,354 stores, respectively. The Furniture, Home, and Seasonal categories had the largest sales gains in 2010. Sales increased in all departments of the Furniture category driven by sales of new styles introduced during the year, improvement in the quality of goods, and successful promotional events targeted around certain holiday selling periods. The Home category sales increased across most of its departments with the largest gain in domestics, as we have improved the value proposition and quality of our product offerings. The Seasonal category increase was due to higher sales of Christmas, lawn & garden, and summer merchandise as customers responded to both our updated Christmas assortment and the value and newness offered in certain of our lawn & garden and summer items. The Play n Wear category sales improvement was primarily driven by the electronics department in the first half of 2010 through the sales of video games, which we began selling in the third fiscal quarter of 2009, partially offset by declining sales trends of toys. The Consumables category decrease was primarily due to lower food sales, as customers did not respond as expected to our offerings and assortment during the second half of 2010. The decrease in the Hardlines & Other category was primarily driven by the absences of certain drugstore closeout deals in 2010 that occurred in 2009.Gross MarginGross margin dollars increased $93.2 million, or 4.9%, to $2,012.5 million in 2010 compared to $1,919.3 million in 2009. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales was 40.6% in both 2010 and 2009. The primary contributor to the increased gross margin dollars was higher net sales of $225.5 million, which increased gross margin dollars by approximately $91.6 million. The gross margin rate remained flat at 40.6% in 2010 as compared to 2009. In 2010, we experienced positive trends with lower markdowns, lower shrink costs, and the impact of favorable merchandise mix, which were offset by higher inbound freight costs and lower initial markups on certain items sold during the Christmas selling season. Lower markdowns and favorable merchandise mix impact were the result of strong sales in our higher margin Seasonal and Home categories. Our lower shrink 28Table of Contentsrates were driven by positive results in our annual physical inventories. The increase in inbound freight costs was primarily driven by higher diesel fuel costs and higher domestic carrier costs. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $44.1 million, or 2.9%, to $1,576.5 million in 2010 compared to $1,532.4 million in 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher sales and a net increase of 37 stores in 2010. Compared to 2009, the largest increases were store payroll costs of $24.5 million, credit card/bank fees of $10.3 million, store rent expense of $9.1 million, and store facility and operation costs of $8.0 million. Partially offsetting these items was a decrease in advertising expenses of $4.2 million. The increase in store payroll was principally due to the incremental number of stores, store pre opening costs, and higher sales. The increase in credit card/bank fees was the result of higher rates charged by debit card network providers, which were increased at the end of the first quarter of 2010, and from increased sales. Store rents increased primarily due to the incremental number of stores. Store facility and operation costs increased due to the incremental number of stores, increased store pre opening costs (resulting from 80 store openings in 2010 as compared to 52 store openings in 2009), and increased repair costs primarily associated with our store refresh program. Advertising expense decreased primarily due to lower printing and distribution costs along with more efficient spending on our broadcast promotions. Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales were 31.8% in 2010 compared to 32.4% in 2009. The decrease of 0.6% was primarily due to the effect of the increase in sales of 4.8% as selling and administrative expense dollars only increased 2.9% as discussed above. Depreciation ExpenseDepreciation expense increased $3.7 million, or 4.9%, to $78.6 million in 2010 compared to $74.9 million for 2009. Depreciation expense as a percentage of sales was flat compared to 2009 at 160 basis points. The increase in depreciation expense was primarily related to our stores and was principally due to new store openings. During 2010, the Company opened 80 new stores, including relocations. Interest ExpenseInterest expense increased $0.8 million to $2.6 million in 2010 compared to $1.8 million in 2009. The increase in interest expense was principally due to higher average borrowings (including capital leases) of $24.0 million in 2010 compared to average borrowings of $8.6 million in 2009. The higher average borrowings was primarily driven by the timing of share repurchases under the 2010 Repurchase Program.Other Income (Expense)Other income (expense) increased $0.4 million in 2010 to $0.6 million compared to $0.2 million in 2009. The increase in interest and investment income was caused by the increase in funds available to invest in 2010 compared to 2009, partly offset by a decrease in investment yield. Our average invested amount in 2010 was $132.9 million compared to $68.9 million in 2009. In 2010, we invested primarily in deposits with financial institutions and highly liquid investments, including money market funds and variable rate demand notes. We held $126.1 million of investments at the end of 2010. Income TaxesOur effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations was 37.4% for 2010 compared to 37.7% for 2009. The lower rate in 2010 was principally due to the recognition of benefits resulting primarily from the recording of a deferred tax asset for net state credits, principally obtained during the third quarter of 2010, partially offset by (1) lower year over year tax benefits related to the settlement of uncertain tax positions and (2) the release of a valuation allowance on unrealized capital losses in 2009. Discontinued OperationsThere was minimal activity in discontinued operations in 2010 compared to a loss of $1.0 million, net of tax, in 2009. The 2009 loss from discontinued operations was primarily due to the KB II Bankruptcy Lease Obligations (see note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, we obtained assignment of a lease for the former KB II corporate office and recorded a charge of $0.7 million, net of tax, in loss from discontinued operations. The remaining $0.3 million loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, in 2009 pertained to other KB II Bankruptcy Lease Obligations. 29Table of ContentsCapital Resources and LiquidityOn July 22, 2011, we entered into the 2011 Credit Agreement. The 2011 Credit Agreement is scheduled to expire on July 22, 2016. In connection with our entry into the 2011 Credit Agreement, we paid bank fees and other expenses in the aggregate amount of $3.0 million, which are being amortized over the term of the agreement. Borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement are available for general corporate purposes, working capital, and to repay certain of our indebtedness, including amounts due under the 2009 Credit Agreement. The 2011 Credit Agreement includes a $10 million Canadian swing loan sublimit, a $30 million U.S. swing loan sublimit, a $150 million letter of credit sublimit and a $200 million Canadian revolving credit loan subfacility. The interest rates, pricing and fees under the 2011 Credit Agreement fluctuate based on our debt rating. The 2011 Credit Agreement allows us to select our interest rate for each borrowing from multiple interest rate options. The interest rate options are generally derived from the prime rate, LIBOR, or CDOR. We may prepay revolving loans made under the 2011 Credit Agreement. The 2011 Credit Agreement contains financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, limitations on indebtedness, liens and investments, as well as the maintenance of two financial ratios a leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio. A violation of any of the covenants could result in a default under the 2011 Credit Agreement that would permit the lenders to restrict our ability to further access the 2011 Credit Agreement for loans and letters of credit and require the immediate repayment of any outstanding loans under the 2011 Credit Agreement. At January 28, 2012, we were in compliance with the covenants of the 2011 Credit Agreement.We use the 2011 Credit Agreement, as necessary, to provide funds for ongoing and seasonal working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchase programs, and other expenditures. In addition, we use the 2011 Credit Agreement to provide letters of credit for various operating and regulatory requirements, a significant portion of which consists of letters of credit required as a result of our self funded insurance programs. Given the seasonality of our business, the amount of borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement may fluctuate materially depending on various factors, including our operating financial performance, the time of year, and our need to increase merchandise inventory levels prior to the peak selling season.The primary source of our liquidity is cash flows from operations and, as necessary, borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement. Our net income and, consequently, our cash provided by operations are impacted by net sales volume, seasonal sales patterns, and operating profit margins. Our net sales are typically highest during the nine week Christmas selling season in our fourth fiscal quarter. Generally, our working capital requirements peak late in our third fiscal quarter or early in our fourth fiscal quarter. We have typically funded those requirements with borrowings under our credit facility. In 2011, our total indebtedness (outstanding borrowings and letters of credit) peaked at approximately $400 million in November. At January 28, 2012, we had $65.9 million in borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement and the borrowings available under the 2011 Credit Agreement were $578.9 million, after taking into account the reduction in availability resulting from outstanding letters of credit totaling $55.2 million. We anticipate that total indebtedness under the 2011 Credit Agreement through June 15, 2012 will peak at less than $100 million, which includes outstanding letters of credit and the estimated impact of cash needs of Big Lots Canada, but excludes the impact of any potential share repurchase activity under the 2011 Repurchase Program. Working capital was $421.8 million at January 28, 2012. Whenever our liquidity position requires us to borrow funds under the 2011 Credit Agreement, we typically repay and or borrow on a daily basis. The daily activity is a net result of our liquidity position, which is generally driven by the following components of our operations: 1) cash inflows such as cash or credit card receipts collected from stores for merchandise sales and other miscellaneous deposits; and 2) cash outflows such as check clearings for the acquisition of merchandise, wire and other electronic transactions for the acquisition of merchandise, payroll and other operating expenses, income and other taxes, employee benefits, and other miscellaneous disbursements.Cash provided by operating activities increased by $3.2 million to $318.5 million in 2011 compared to $315.3 million in 2010. The increase was primarily driven by the change in our accounts payable leverage ratio, which resulted in a $14.9 million increase, and higher depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by our net income of $207.1 million in 2011, which was $15.4 million lower than our net income in 2010. At January 28, 2012, our accounts payable leverage ratio (accounts payable divided by inventory) increased to 42% from 40% at January 29, 2011, therefore driving an increase of $14.9 million. Net income in 2011 included $13.3 million of net loss generated by our Canadian segment.30Table of ContentsCash used in investing activities increased by $6.1 million to $120.7 million in 2011 compared to $114.6 million in 2010. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $23.7 million in capital expenditures to $131.3 million in 2011 compared to $107.6 million in 2010, as more stores were opened in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase was partially offset by the return of our $8.0 million deposit with an insurance carrier from a restricted account in the second quarter of 2011 that was initially deposited in the second quarter of 2010; therefore generating a $16.0 million change in cash flow from 2010 to 2011. Cash used in financing activities decreased by $0.6 million to $306.3 million in 2011 compared to $306.9 million in 2010. The primary driver of cash used in financing activities in 2011 and 2010 was our share repurchase activities. In 2011, we acquired $359.3 million of our common shares ($57.8 million under the 2010 Repurchase Program and $301.5 million under the 2011 Repurchase Program), as compared to the $342.2 million of our common shares we acquired in 2010 under the 2010 Repurchase Program. In addition, during the second quarter of 2011, we used $16.7 million to repay the outstanding notes payable we assumed in connection with our acquisition of Liquidation World Inc. In 2011 and 2010, we received proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $10.4 million and $32.5 million, respectively, which also generated excess tax benefits of $2.7 million and $13.8 million, respectively. Lastly, in 2011, we borrowed $65.9 million under the 2011 Credit Agreement to partially fund our share repurchases. Based on historical and expected financial results, we believe that we have or, if necessary, have the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing and seasonal working capital requirements, proposed capital expenditures, new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Contractual ObligationsThe following table summarizes payments due under our contractual obligations at January 28, 2012: Payments Due by Period (1) Less than More than Total1 year1 to 3 years3 to 5 years5 years(In thousands) Obligations under bank credit facility (2)$65,975$75$$65,900$Operating lease obligations (3) (4)1,208,513311,751481,978257,859156,925Capital lease obligations (4)3,1621,3401,79131Purchase obligations (4) (5)815,971713,49584,93217,544Other long term liabilities (6)48,1905,3075,39111,01726,475 Total contractual obligations (7)$2,141,811$1,031,968$574,092$352,351$183,400(1)The disclosure of contractual obligations in this table is based on assumptions and estimates that we believe to be reasonable as of the date of this report. Those assumptions and estimates may prove to be inaccurate; consequently, the amounts provided in the table may differ materially from those amounts that we ultimately incur. Variables that may cause the stated amounts to vary from the amounts actually incurred include, but are not limited to: the termination of a contractual obligation prior to its stated or anticipated expiration; fees or damages incurred as a result of the premature termination or breach of a contractual obligation; the acquisition of more or less services or goods under a contractual obligation than are anticipated by us as of the date of this report; fluctuations in third party fees, governmental charges, or market rates that we are obligated to pay under contracts we have with certain vendors; and the exercise of renewal options under, or the automatic renewal of, contracts that provide for the same.(2)Obligations under the bank credit facility consist of the borrowings outstanding under the 2011 Credit Agreement, and the associated accrued interest of $0.1 million. In addition, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $55.2 million at January 28, 2012. Approximately $51.3 million of the outstanding letters of credit represent stand by letters of credit and we do not expect to meet the conditions requiring significant cash payments on these letters of credit; accordingly, they have been excluded from this table. The remaining outstanding letters of credit represent commercial letters of credit whereby the related obligation is included in the purchase obligations. For a further discussion, see note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.31Table of Contents(3)Operating lease obligations include, among other items, leases for retail stores, warehouse space, offices, and certain computer and other business equipment. The future minimum commitments for retail store, office, and warehouse space operating leases are $927.4 million. For a further discussion of leases, see note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Many of the store lease obligations require us to pay for our applicable portion of CAM, real estate taxes, and property insurance. In connection with our store lease obligations, we estimated that future obligations for CAM, real estate taxes, and property insurance were $269.5 million at January 28, 2012. We have made certain assumptions and estimates in order to account for our contractual obligations relative to CAM, real estate taxes, and property insurance. Those assumptions and estimates include, but are not limited to: use of historical data to estimate our future obligations; calculation of our obligations based on comparable store averages where no historical data is available for a particular leasehold; and assumptions related to average expected increases over historical data. The remaining lease obligation of $11.6 million relates primarily to operating leases for computer and other business equipment, including data center related costs.(4)For purposes of the lease and purchase obligation disclosures, we have assumed that we will make all payments scheduled or reasonably estimated to be made under those obligations that have a determinable expiration date, and we disregarded the possibility that such obligations may be prematurely terminated or extended, whether automatically by the terms of the obligation or by agreement between us and the counterparty, due to the speculative nature of premature termination or extension. Where an operating lease or purchase obligation is subject to a month to month term or another automatically renewing term, we included in the table our minimum commitment under such obligation, such as one month in the case of a month to month obligation and the then current term in the case of another automatically renewing term, due to the uncertainty of future decisions to exercise options to extend or terminate any existing leases.(5)Purchase obligations include outstanding purchase orders for merchandise issued in the ordinary course of our business that are valued at $514.0 million, the entirety of which represents obligations due within one year of January 28, 2012. In addition, we have a purchase commitment for future inventory purchases totaling $80.8 million at January 28, 2012. While we are not required to meet any periodic minimum purchase requirements under this commitment, we have included, for purposes of this tabular disclosure, the value of the purchases that we anticipate making during each of the reported periods as purchases that will count toward our fulfillment of the aggregate obligation. The remaining $221.2 million of purchase obligations is primarily related to distribution and transportation, information technology, print advertising, energy procurement, and other store security, supply, and maintenance commitments.(6)Other long term liabilities include $23.8 million for expected contributions to the Pension Plan and our nonqualified, unfunded supplemental defined benefit pension plan (Supplemental Pension Plan), $20.4 million for obligations related to our nonqualified deferred compensation plan, $2.3 million for unrecognized tax benefits, and $0.6 million for closed store lease termination costs related to stores closed in 2011. Pension contributions are equal to expected benefit payments for the nonqualified plan plus expected contributions to the qualified plan using actuarial estimates and assuming that we only make the minimum required contributions (see note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information about our employee benefit plans). We have estimated the payments due by period for the nonqualified deferred compensation plan based on an average of historical distributions. We have included unrecognized tax benefits of $1.5 million for payments expected in 2012 and $0.8 million of timing related income tax uncertainties anticipated to reverse in 2012. Unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $20.2 million have been excluded from the table because we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments. Our closed store lease termination cost payments are based on contractual terms.(7)The obligations disclosed in this table are exclusive of the contingent liabilities, guarantees, and indemnities related to the KB Toys business. For further discussion, see note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.32Table of ContentsOff Balance Sheet ArrangementsFor a discussion of the KB Bankruptcy Lease Obligations, see note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Because the KB Toys business filed for bankruptcy again in December 2008 and liquidated all of its store operations, we accrued a contingent liability on our balance sheet at January 30, 2010, in the amount of $4.8 million for 31 KB Toys store leases for which we may have an indemnification or guarantee obligation and a former KB Toys corporate office lease for which we took an assignment in 2009. At January 28, 2012, our contingent liability related to this matter was $3.1 million. Because of uncertainty inherent in the assumptions used to estimate this liability, our estimated liability could ultimately prove to be understated and could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, as well as the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions creates a level of uncertainty with respect to reported or disclosed amounts in our consolidated financial statements or accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, judgments, and assumptions, including those that management considers critical to the accurate presentation and disclosure of our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates, judgments, and assumptions on historical experience, current trends, and various other factors that management believes are reasonable under the circumstances. Because of the inherent uncertainty in using estimates, judgments, and assumptions, actual results may differ from these estimates. Our significant accounting policies, including the recently adopted accounting standards and recent accounting standards future adoptions, if any, are described in note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We believe the following assumptions and estimates are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Management has reviewed these critical accounting estimates and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.Merchandise InventoriesMerchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the average cost retail inventory method. Market is determined based on the estimated net realizable value, which generally is the merchandise selling price at or near the end of the reporting period. The average cost retail inventory method requires management to make judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of markdowns to clear slow moving inventory, the estimated allowance for shrinkage, and the estimated amount of excess or obsolete inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation and prior or future gross margin. These estimates are based on historical experience and current information.When management determines the salability of merchandise inventories is diminished, markdowns for clearance activity and the related cost impact are recorded at the time the price change decision is made. Factors considered in the determination of markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, the age of merchandise, and seasonal trends. Timing of holidays within fiscal periods, weather, and customer preferences could cause material changes in the amount and timing of markdowns from year to year. The inventory allowance for shrinkage is recorded as a reduction to inventories, charged to cost of sales, and calculated as a percentage of sales for the period from the last physical inventory date to the end of the reporting period. Such estimates are based on both our current year and historical inventory results. Independent physical inventory counts are taken at each store once a year. During calendar 2012, the majority of these counts will occur between January and September. As physical inventories are completed, actual results are recorded and new go forward shrink accrual rates are established based on individual store historical results. Thus, the shrink accrual rates will be adjusted throughout the January through September inventory cycle based on actual results. At January 28, 2012, a 10% difference in our shrink reserve would have affected gross margin, operating profit and income from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $3.6 million. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, we have loss prevention programs and policies aimed at minimizing shrinkage.33Table of ContentsLong Lived AssetsOur long lived assets primarily consist of property and equipment. We perform annual impairment reviews of our long lived assets at the store level. Generally, all other property and equipment is reviewed for impairment at the enterprise level. When we perform the annual impairment reviews, we first determine which stores had impairment indicators present. We use actual historical cash flows to determine which stores had negative cash flows within the past two years. For each store with negative cash flows, we obtain future cash flow estimates based on operating performance estimates specific to each stores operations that are based on assumptions currently being used to develop our company level operating plans. If the net book value of a stores long lived assets is not recoverable through the expected future cash flows of the store, we estimate the fair value of the stores assets and recognize an impairment charge for the excess net book value of the stores long lived assets over their fair value. The fair value of store assets is estimated based on information available in the marketplace for similar assets. We recognized impairment charges of less than $0.1 million and $0.4 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. We did not recognize an impairment charge in 2011, related to our stores. We believe that our impairment charges are trending lower because we have been closing underperforming stores over the past 5 years (primarily through non renewal of leases), and our store productivity continues to improve. In our U.S. segment, we only identified one store with impairment indicators as a result of our annual store impairment tests in 2011 and that store was planned to be, and was, closed by the end of 2011. Therefore, we do not believe that varying the assumptions used to test for recoverability to estimate fair value of our long lived assets would have a material impact on the impairment charges we incurred in 2011. In our Canadian segment, we did not note any significant impairment indicators. Further, the assets were recorded at fair value upon the acquisition of Liquidation World Inc.If our future operating results decline significantly, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material (for additional discussion of this risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors A significant decline in our operating profit and taxable income may impair our ability to realize the value of our long lived assets and deferred tax assets.). In addition to our annual store impairment reviews, we evaluate our other long lived assets at each reporting period to determine whether impairment indicators are present. In 2011, we reviewed our operational needs surrounding travel and determined that we needed to replace an aircraft due in part to the repair costs and declining reliability of the aging aircraft. As a result of this decision, we both purchased a new aircraft to meet our needs and placed an older aircraft in the market as available for sale. We recorded a $2.2 million impairment charge on the held for sale aircraft, based on market conditions at the time the decision was executed.GoodwillGoodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations.On an annual basis, we must review our goodwill for potential impairment. We will conduct an impairment review which consists of preparing an estimate of the fair value of our reporting segments using an income approach and a market approach. Determining the fair value of a reporting segment involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We will base our estimates of fair value on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We will perform our annual impairment testing during our second fiscal quarter of each year.34Table of ContentsShare Based CompensationWe grant stock options and performance based non vested restricted stock to our employees under shareholder approved incentive plans. Share based compensation expense was $25.0 million, $24.6 million, and $20.3 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Future share based compensation expense for performance based non vested restricted stock is dependent upon the future number of awards, fair value of our common shares on the grant date, and the estimated vesting period. Future share based compensation expense for stock options is dependent upon the number and terms of future stock option awards and many estimates, judgments and assumptions used in arriving at the fair value of stock options. Future share based compensation expense related to performance based non vested restricted stock and stock options may vary materially from the currently amortizing awards.We estimate the fair value of our stock options using a binomial model. The binomial model takes into account estimates, assumptions, and judgments about our stock price volatility, our dividend yield rate, the risk free rate of return, the contractual term of the option, the probability that the option will be exercised prior to the end of its contractual life, and the probability of retirement of the option holder in computing the value of the option. Expected volatility is based on historical and current implied volatilities from traded options on our common shares and those of our peers. The dividend yield rate on our common shares is assumed to be zero since we have not paid dividends and have no current plans to do so. The risk free rate is based on U.S. Treasury security yields at the time of the grant. The expected life is determined from the application of the binomial model and includes assumptions such as the expected employee exercise behavior and our expected forfeiture rate, which is based on analysis of historical data. Compensation expense for performance based non vested restricted stock awards is recorded over the estimated vesting period based on the estimated achievement date of the performance criteria. An estimated target achievement date is determined at the time of the award based on historical and forecasted performance of similar measures. We monitor the achievement of the performance targets at each reporting period and make adjustments to the estimated vesting period when our models indicate that the estimated achievement date differs from the date being used to amortize expense. Any change in the estimated vesting date results in a prospective change to the related expense by charging the remaining unamortized expense over the remaining expected vesting period at the date the estimate was changed. Income TaxesThe determination of our income tax expense, refunds receivable, income taxes payable, deferred tax assets and liabilities and financial statement recognition, de recognition and or measurement of uncertain tax benefits (for positions taken or to be taken on income tax returns) requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex accounting and multi jurisdictional income tax laws.The effective income tax rate in any period may be materially impacted by the overall level of income (loss) before income taxes, the jurisdictional mix and magnitude of income (loss), changes in the income tax laws (which may be retroactive to the beginning of the fiscal year), subsequent recognition, de recognition and or measurement of an uncertain tax benefit, changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and adjustments of a deferred tax asset or liability for enacted changes in tax laws or rates. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates resulting in a final tax outcome that may be materially different from that which is reflected in our consolidated financial statements.We evaluate our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise. We consider all available positive and negative evidence including recent financial results, projected future pretax accounting income from continuing operations and tax planning strategies (when necessary). This evaluation requires us to make assumptions that require significant judgment about the forecasts of future pretax accounting income. The assumptions that we use in this evaluation are consistent with the assumptions and estimates used to develop our consolidated operating financial plans. If we determine that a portion of our deferred tax assets, which principally represent expected future deductions or benefits, are not likely to be realized, we recognize a valuation allowance for our estimate of these benefits which we believe are not likely recoverable. Additionally, changes in tax laws, apportionment of income for state and provincial tax purposes, and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets. 35Table of ContentsWe evaluate the uncertainty of income tax positions taken or to be taken on income tax returns. When a tax position meets the more likely than not threshold, we recognize economic benefits associated with the position on our consolidated financial statements. The more likely than not recognition threshold is a positive assertion that an enterprise believes it is entitled to economic benefits associated with a tax position. When a tax position does not meet the more likely than not threshold, or in the case of those positions that do meet the threshold but are measured at less than the full benefit taken on the return, we recognize tax liabilities (or de recognize tax assets, as the case may be). A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have derecognized a tax benefit, is audited and fully resolved or clarified. We adjust unrecognized tax benefits and the income tax provision in the period in which an uncertain tax position is effectively or ultimately settled, the statute of limitations expires for the relevant taxing authority to examine the tax position, or as a result of the evaluation of new information that becomes available. PensionActuarial valuations are used to calculate the estimated expenses and obligations for our Pension Plan and Supplemental Pension Plan. Inherent in the actuarial valuations are several assumptions including discount rate and expected return on plan assets. We review external data and historical trends to help determine the discount rate and expected long term rate of return. Our objective in selecting a discount rate is to identify the best estimate of the rate at which the benefit obligations would be settled on the measurement date. In making this estimate, we review rates of return on high quality, fixed income investments available at the measurement date and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the benefits. This process includes a review of the bonds available on the measurement date with a quality rating of Aa or better. The expected long term rate of return on assets is derived from detailed periodic studies, which include a review of asset allocation strategies, anticipated future long term performance of individual asset classes, risks (standard deviations) and correlations of returns among the asset classes that comprise the plans asset mix. While the studies give appropriate consideration to recent plan performance and historical returns, the assumption is primarily a long term, prospective rate of return. The weighted average discount rate used to determine the net periodic pension cost for 2011 was 5.7%. A 1.0% decrease in the discount rate would increase net periodic pension cost by $0.8 million. The long term rate of return on assets used to determine net periodic pension cost in 2011 was 8.0%. A 1.0% decrease in the expected long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the net periodic pension cost by $0.6 million.During 2011, we reclassified $1.1 million, net of tax, from other comprehensive income to expense in our consolidated statement of operations. We recognized a benefit of $0.2 million, net of tax, to other comprehensive income in 2011, which was principally driven by the recognition of $0.3 million (pretax) in settlement charges as participants elected more lump sum payments than originally estimated. At January 28, 2012, the accumulated other comprehensive income amount associated with the plans, which was principally unrealized actuarial loss, was $14.5 million loss, net of tax. During 2012, and in future periods, we expect to reclassify approximately $2.7 million from other comprehensive income to expense, assuming we achieve our estimated rate of return on pension plan investments in future periods. Additionally, in the event that we have future settlements, as occurred in 2011 and 2010, we would expect that the pretax expense related to future settlements would be between the $0.3 million and $1.8 million charges in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Insurance and Insurance Related ReservesWe are self insured for certain losses relating to property, general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical and dental benefit claims, a portion of which is funded by employees. We purchase stop loss coverage from third party insurance carriers to limit individual or aggregate loss exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities and related expenses are based on actual claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. The estimated loss accruals for claims incurred but not paid are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account historical claims payment results and known trends such as claims frequency and claims severity. Management makes estimates, judgments, and assumptions with respect to the use of these actuarially based calculations, including but not limited to, estimated health care cost trends, estimated lag time to report and pay claims, average cost per claim, network utilization rates, network discount rates, and other factors. A 10% change in our self insured liabilities at January 28, 2012 would have affected selling and administrative expenses, operating profit, and income from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $8 million.General liability and workers compensation liabilities are recorded at our estimate of their net present value, using a 4.0% discount rate, while other liabilities for insurance reserves are not discounted. A 1.0% change in the discount rate on these liabilities would have affected selling and administrative expenses, operating profit, and income from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $1.8 million.36Table of ContentsLease AccountingIn order to recognize rent expense on our leases, we evaluate many factors to identify the lease term such as the contractual term of the lease, our assumed possession date of the property, renewal option periods, and the estimated value of leasehold improvement investments that we are required to make. Based on this evaluation, our lease term is typically the minimum contractually obligated period over which we have control of the property. This term is used because although many of our leases have renewal options, we typically do not incur an economic or contractual penalty in the event of non renewal. Therefore, we typically use the initial minimum lease term for purposes of calculating straight line rent, amortizing deferred rent, and recognizing depreciation expense on our leasehold improvements. CommitmentsFor a discussion on certain of our commitments, refer to note 3, note 5, note 10, and note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskWe are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates on investments and on borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement that we make from time to time. We had borrowings of $65.9 million under the 2011 Credit Agreement at January 28, 2012. An increase of 1.0% in our variable interest rate on our investments and expected future borrowings would not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.Through the operations of Big Lots Canada, we are subject to market risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the Canadian Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. An increase or decrease of 1% in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.37Table of Contents
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewThe discussion and analysis presented below should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes. Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10 K for a discussion of forward looking statements and certain risk factors that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and or liquidity.Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31, which results in some fiscal years with 52 weeks and some with 53 weeks. Fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 were each comprised of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2012 will be comprised of 53 weeks.Operating Results SummaryThe following are the results from 2011 that we believe are key indicators of both our consolidated and segment operating performance when compared to 2010.Consolidated HighlightsNet sales increased $250.0 million, or 5.0%.Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased from $2.83 per share to $2.99 per share.Inventory increased by 8.3%, or $63.1 million, to $825.2 million from 2010.We acquired Liquidation World Inc.We acquired 11.0 million of our outstanding common shares for $359.3 million under the 2011 Repurchase Program.U.S. Segment HighlightsComparable store sales for stores open at least two years at the beginning of 2011 increased 0.1%.Gross margin dollars increased $33.6 million, while gross margin rate decreased 80 basis points from 40.6% to 39.8% of sales.Selling and administrative expenses increased $23.3 million. As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses improved by decreasing 70 basis points to 31.1% of sales.Operating profit rate decreased 20 basis points to 7.0%.Canadian Segment HighlightsNet sales from the date of acquisition (July 18, 2012) through January 28, 2012 were $62.1 million.Operating loss was $12.2 million.20Table of ContentsThe following table compares components of our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net sales: 201120102009Net sales100.0 %100.0 %100.0 %Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation expense shown separately below)60.259.459.4Gross margin39.840.640.6Selling and administrative expenses31.431.832.4Depreciation expense1.71.61.6Gain on sale of real estate0.00.0(0.3)Operating profit6.67.26.9Interest expense(0.1)(0.1)(0.0)Other income (expense)(0.0)0.00.0Income from continuing operations before income taxes6.67.26.8Income tax expense2.62.72.6Income from continuing operations4.04.54.3Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax(0.0)(0.0)(0.0)Net income4.0 %4.5 %4.2 %See the discussion below under the captions 2011 Compared To 2010 and 2010 Compared To 2009 for additional details regarding the specific components of our operating results.Selling and administrative expenses in 2009 were increased by $4.0 million (10 basis points), pretax, due to a legal settlement agreement. In addition, the sale in 2009 of a company owned and operated store in California resulted in a pretax gain of $13.0 million (30 basis points). SeasonalityAs discussed in Item 1. Business Seasonality of this Form 10 K, our financial results fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on various factors such as timing of new or closed stores, timing and extent of advertisements and promotions, and timing of holidays. We expect the Christmas holiday selling season to continue to produce a significant portion of our sales and operating profits. If our sales performance is significantly better or worse during the Christmas holiday selling season, we would expect a more pronounced impact on our annual financial results than if our sales performance is significantly better or worse in a different season. The following table sets forth the seasonality of net sales and operating profit for 2011, 2010, and 2009 by fiscal quarter: First Second Third FourthFiscal Year 2011 Net sales as a percentage of full year23.6%22.4%21.9%32.1%Operating profit as a percentage of full year25.017.32.655.1Fiscal Year 2010 Net sales as a percentage of full year24.9%23.1%21.3%30.7%Operating profit as a percentage of full year25.217.77.549.6Fiscal Year 2009 Net sales as a percentage of full year24.1%23.0%21.9%31.0%Operating profit as a percentage of full year18.514.714.652.221Table of ContentsOperating StrategyIn 2005, Mr. Fishman joined the Company as its Chief Executive Officer and introduced our current operating strategy, the Whats Important Now Strategy (WIN Strategy). The WIN Strategy focuses on three key elements of our business: merchandising, real estate, and cost structure. The WIN Strategy was designed to increase the operating profit performance of our existing store base, which has occurred from 2007 to 2011. In 2009, driven by both the improvements in our store productivity and the softening of the commercial real estate market, we expanded our WIN Strategy to also include the pursuit of net new store growth. In 2011, our Board of Directors approved the purchase of Liquidation World Inc., a Canadian closeout retailer, with the expectation that the management team could implement the key elements of the WIN Strategy to turn around its performance. The acquisition was part of the net store growth component of the WIN Strategy. Over the past three years, we have generated approximately $1,026 million of cash of which approximately $316 million was reinvested in our business through capital expenditures or investments in our acquired subsidiary and $701 million was returned to shareholders through publicly announced share repurchase programs. In 2012, we anticipate the key elements of the WIN Strategy will remain consistent, including the net store growth phase. We anticipate that the commercial real estate market will continue to provide us with real estate opportunities at prices that are appropriate for our financial model and return on capital requirements. Given the strength of our financial performance and the availability of real estate in markets we serve, we believe we will continue to open new stores.In 2012, we anticipate:Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations to be $3.35 to $3.45, including the expected impact of a non cash, non recurring charge of $0.05 per diluted share related to a change in accounting principle associated with the implementation of our new retail inventory systems in the U.S. during the first quarter of 2012.Net sales increase in both the U.S. and Canada:U.S. comparable stores sales increase of 2% to 3% and an increase of 8% to 9% in total net sales in the U.S.Canada sales of $140 million to $150 million, a $78 million to $88 million increase from 2011, which was a partial year.Opening 90 new stores and closing 45 stores, for net growth of 45 stores or 3%, in the U.S.Cash provided by operating activities of approximately $330 million to $335 million less capital expenditures of approximately $130 million to $135 million resulting in approximately $200 million of cash available for further investment in our business.The remaining $98.5 million of share purchase authorization under the 2011 Repurchase Program may be utilized in the open market and or in privately negotiated transactions at our discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors. The following sections provide additional discussion and analysis of our WIN Strategy with respect to merchandising, real estate, and cost structure in our U.S. segment and the testing and implementation of the WIN Strategy in our Canadian segment. The 2011 Compared To 2010 section below provides additional discussion and analysis of the impact of these strategies on our financial performance and the assumptions and expectations upon which we are basing our guidance for our future results.U.S. SegmentMerchandisingFrom a merchandising perspective, our competitive positioning as the largest broadline closeout retailer in the U.S. affords us a strategic advantage when sourcing merchandise for our stores. We source our merchandise in three key ways: Manufacturers and vendors have closeout merchandise for a number of different reasons including other retailers canceling orders, other retailers going out of business, marketing or packaging changes, a new product launch that has failed, and various other reasons. In these situations, we are able to source product at a discounted cost and offer significant value to our customers. We currently have thousands of vendor relationships for closeout inventory that have been developed over many years. We believe these relationships and the size and financial strength of our company limit the opportunities for other competitors to enter our retail segment. 22Table of ContentsFor certain merchandise categories, there is not always an abundant supply of closeout inventory. In these situations, we may work with vendors to develop product, some of which is imported. Imports total approximately 25% to 30% of our merchandise sales annually. Categories with the highest concentration of imports include Seasonal, Furniture, and to a lesser extent the Home category and the toys department. Our merchandise mix also includes replenishable and private or captive label products. This type of merchandise is consistently available, and as a result, it can be offered in our stores on a regular basis. This merchandise has many of the same characteristics as our closeout merchandise but is reorderable upon demand. Our prices for replenishable and private or captive label products are generally positioned below our competition, but to a lesser extent than our closeout sourced merchandise.We offer six major merchandise categories in our store: Consumables, Furniture, Home, Seasonal, Play n Wear, and Hardlines & Other. Consumables is the largest category at 30.6% of sales in 2011 and Hardlines & Other is the smallest category at 8.3% of sales in 2011. In the third quarter of 2011, we realigned our merchandise categories to be consistent with the realignment of our merchandising team and changes to our management reporting. Prior to the third quarter of 2011, we reported sales in the former Hardlines category and the former Other category. We moved the electronics department out of the former Hardlines category and repositioned it in the former Other category, which was renamed Play n Wear. We also moved the results of certain large closeout deals that are typically acquired through our alternate product sourcing operations out of the former Other category and repositioned them in the former Hardlines category, which was renamed Hardlines & Other.In recent years, our merchandising strategies to increase sales have been predominantly focused on increasing the average transaction value. We have employed two primary methods to accomplish this goal: (1) drive more units per transaction, and (2) grow the average item retail price by offering our customers better quality merchandise, better values, and more prominent brand name products. This approach is consistent with our customer research that suggests that our core customer recognizes quality and brands and is willing to pay a higher retail price, so long as the value or cost savings is significant compared to what other retailers are offering. This strategy has resulted in fewer cartons processed by our distribution centers and stores and has achieved positive comparable store sales on an annual basis.While executing our WIN Strategy, we have made measurable progress towards our goals of growing sales per selling square foot (which increased from $146 per square foot in 2005 to $166 per square foot in 2011, for our U.S. segment) and increasing gross margin dollars (which increased from $1,732 million in 2005 to $2,046 million in 2011). From a merchandising perspective, our goal in 2012 is to continue to provide extreme value, improved quality, and expand the presence of recognizable brand name merchandise in our stores. We expect our major merchandise categories will remain the same as in prior years but the percentage of business by category may fluctuate based on customer demand and the availability of compelling deals that we are able to acquire. Strategically, we anticipate that opportunities exist to continue to grow the basket through the same successful initiatives that benefited results over the last few years. Our marketing efforts involve a mix of printed circulars, in store marketing, television, email and online advertising. Much of our marketing is based on information that we have learned about our customers, principally through customer surveys and information gathered through our rewards program. Based on this information, we believe over 70% of our core customers come to our stores without a shopping list or without a specific item or brand in mind to purchase. We believe value dominates top of mind awareness as our customers look to us for savings. In 2011, we made investments to improve our in store signage and merchandising displays, with a focus on our comparative pricing to competitors. We expect to continue to develop these efforts in 2012.We continue to market to our Buzz Club members, by offering a free online membership and alerting them to new merchandise and offerings in our stores. In 2009, we launched our Buzz Club Rewards program, which is our first true loyalty card program. After enrolling in the Buzz Club Rewards program, the customer receives a loyalty card which may be presented and scanned at the register at time of purchase. After making the required number of qualifying purchases, the Buzz Club Rewards member earns a coupon on their account for a future discount in our stores. Additionally, members may receive marketing information and other targeted promotional materials. 23Table of ContentsFrom a marketing perspective in 2012, there are four primary programs designed to continue to grow sales:First, using our printed advertising circulars and promotional pricing to create excitement surrounding the deals that we offer. The excitement created by such deals is predominantly achieved through price but the uniqueness of an item may also be a factor.Second, through the use of television commercials displayed nationwide on both national and cable networks, we will promote our brand and, from time to time, promote items or special discounts in our stores.Next, our signage initiatives that focus on value and extreme price savings are designed to continue our effort to reinforce our niche in low everyday price retailing.Finally, the use of our Buzz Club Rewards program is a key driver to furthering our focus on our core shoppers and expanding our customer base. We believe we are gaining insights about communication with this customer segment and will increase our digital communication in 2012 through weekend specials or shop early offers to enjoy early discounts. Additionally, we continue to pursue new customer sign ups at our stores in order to grow our base of members. At January 28, 2012, our Buzz Club Rewards program membership totaled 11.5 million members. From a store operations perspective, we began the company wide rollout of our Ready for Business program in 2009. The program focuses primarily on servicing our customers and creating operational efficiencies, based on certain performance criteria and standards centered on improving the consistency of visual presentation, merchandise recovery efforts, and overall store cleanliness. Ready for Business also focuses on development of our field management team and improving our training programs, which is key to our store growth strategy. As we continue to expand the number of our stores, we have been working to develop the depth of our field management team in order to internally promote and provide opportunities to qualified internal candidates who have a strong understanding of our business model. We believe our focus on standards and investments made in talent development have improved the performance of our new stores during their initial months of operation.In 2012, we have three significant training and development programs, which are either new or being tested, designed to identify and develop the management ranks within our store operations at all levels: assistant store manager, store manager, and district manager. We will continue to refine our Ready for Business standards through streamlining our communications, monitoring our field management span of control, and continuing to review our store layouts in order to enhance our customer service levels.Real EstateWe strategically chose to enter a store growth phase in 2009, as a result of improvements in our store productivity, increased profitability at a consolidated level as a result of the WIN Strategy and the softening of the real estate market. Since the beginning of 2009, we have opened 224 new stores, and closed 112 stores, which has resulted in a net increase of 112 stores, or 8%. The majority of our store openings were what we refer to as traditional stores, meaning stores in secondary locations and primarily in retail strip centers. In 2009, we began a new initiative that we refer to as A locations, which are stores with a higher occupancy cost, but that are generally located in the one of the best retail centers within a given market with either a better co tenant mix, better income demographics, or both. We had 66 "A" locations in operation at January 28, 2012.In 2012, we plan to continue our store growth efforts by maintaining the level of new store openings at approximately 90 new stores and closing approximately 45 stores, or a 3% increase to the current store base. We anticipate approximately 70 to 75 of our store openings this year will be traditional stores and approximately 15 to 20 of our store openings this year will be A location stores, based on expected market availability for our type and size of locations.As discussed in Item 2. Properties, of this Form 10 K, we have 247 store leases which will expire in 2012. During 2012, we anticipate closing approximately 45 of those locations. The majority of these closings will be the result of our choice to relocate the store to an improved location nearby. The balance of the closings will be the result of either a lack of renewal options or our belief that we can no longer generate an acceptable financial return in the location. For our remaining store locations with fiscal 2012 lease expirations, we expect to exercise our renewal option or negotiate more favorable lease renewal terms sufficient enough to continue to enable us to achieve an acceptable return on our investment. 24Table of ContentsCost StructureOur goal each year is to continue to generate expense leverage (lower expenses as a percent of net sales). We believe that several operational changes we have made, which we continue to refine, have significantly contributed to the achievement of our expense leverage goal. Some of the operational changes made include:Controlled inventory levels at our stores and regional distribution centers.Purchased and distributed merchandise to our stores in more optimal quantities and pack sizes to minimize handling in our distribution centers and stores.Timed receipt of merchandise in stores closer to the expected display dates in order to avoid excessive handling of merchandise.Increased the percentage of merchandise that arrives in our stores pre ticketed and pre packaged for efficient display and sale. Refined our staffing and payroll scheduling models in our stores.Invested in energy management systems to actively control utility costs, while reducing energy consumption.Implemented several initiatives which lowered our distribution and outbound transportation expenses, including re negotiating carrier contracts or changing carriers and expanding our back haul volumes.As a result of these operational changes and certain other initiatives in the business, our overall expenses as a percent of sales have declined by 570 basis points since 2005 (2011 expense rate of 32.8% versus 2005 expense rate of 38.5%). Canadian SegmentAs our Canadian segment is also a broadline closeout retailer, we will be implementing merchandising strategies similar to those in our U.S. segment. Accordingly, while our strategy from a merchandise mix perspective will be fairly similar with our U.S. segment, the percent mix may vary based on seasonality, availability of product, and adjustments made for local markets. We believe the merchandising categories of goods sold in our U.S. segment have been core to our success, and consumers in Canada will respond to our extreme value proposition. Additionally, many of the vendors with whom we have strong relationships in the U.S. also have Canadian operations in need of an established closeout partner; therefore, we believe we have potential access to similar merchandise offerings in order to execute this strategy. During 2012, we will be focused on: (1) continuing to increase our inventory to the appropriate levels, while developing a broad assortment of merchandise; (2) building and training our store teams; (3) assessing the real estate and cost structure elements of our new business as we prepare for new store growth currently planned to begin in 2013; and (4) executing certain test and learn activities to facilitate key strategic initiatives.Discontinued OperationsWe continue to incur an insignificant amount of costs on the 130 stores we closed in 2005 that we have classified as discontinued operations. We also report certain activity related to our prior ownership of the KB Toys business in discontinued operations. See note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of all of our discontinued operations. Share Repurchase ProgramIn December 2009, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program providing for the repurchase of up to $150.0 million of our common shares. On March 2, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a $250.0 million increase to our repurchase program bringing the total authorization to $400.0 million. During 2010, we acquired 10.5 million of our outstanding common shares for $342.2 million under the 2010 Repurchase Program. On May 25, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program providing for the repurchase of up to $400.0 million of our common shares. During 2011, we acquired 11.0 million of our outstanding common shares in the open market for approximately $359.3 million, at a volume weighted average price of $32.79. As a result of the repurchases in 2011, we exhausted our authorization under the 2010 Repurchase Program and utilized $301.5 million under the 2011 Repurchase Program.25Table of ContentsOur remaining repurchase authorization under the 2011 Repurchase Program was approximately $98.5 million at January 28, 2012, and is available to be utilized to repurchase shares in the open market and or in privately negotiated transactions at our discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors. Common shares acquired through the 2011 Repurchase Program are held in treasury at cost and are available to meet obligations under equity compensation plans and for general corporate purposes. The 2011 Repurchase Program has no scheduled termination date and will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations or, if needed, by drawing on our 2011 Credit Agreement. 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 U.S. SegmentNet SalesNet sales by merchandise category, in dollars and as a percentage of total net sales, and net sales change in dollars and percentage in 2011 compared to 2010 were as follows: 2011 2010 Change($ in thousands) Consumables$1,571,77130.6% $1,452,78329.3% $118,9888.2 %Furniture883,34117.2 829,72516.8 53,6166.5Home799,49415.5 783,86015.8 15,6342.0Play n Wear776,44515.1 811,75016.4 (35,305)(4.3)Seasonal683,49813.3 642,22013.0 41,2786.4Hardlines & Other425,6158.3 431,9068.7 (6,291)(1.5) Net sales$5,140,164100.0% $4,952,244100.0% $187,9203.8 % In the third quarter of 2011, we realigned our merchandise categories to be consistent with the realignment of our merchandising team and changes to our management reporting. Fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 sales results have been reclassified to reflect the realignment.Net sales increased $187.9 million or 3.8% to $5,140.2 million in 2011, compared to $4,952.2 million in 2010. The increase in net sales was principally due to the net addition of 53 stores since the end of 2010, which increased net sales by $179.6 million and a 0.1% increase in comparable store sales, which increased net sales by $8.3 million. Our comparable store sales are calculated by using all stores that were open for at least two fiscal years as of the beginning of the current fiscal year. The Consumables category experienced increases in nearly all departments, in particular food, as customers continue to respond to our new assortments and specialty offerings. The primary drivers of the sales increase in the Furniture category were the upholstery and mattresses departments, partially offset by a decrease in case goods as 2010 benefited from a few large closeout deals. The Seasonal category increase was driven by strong sales of Christmas trim and summer related merchandise, partially offset by a decrease in our fall seasonal departments. The Home category experienced growth in the domestics department, where new merchandising initiatives positively impacted sales throughout the majority of the year. The growth in the domestics department was partially offset by comparable store sales declines in most other departments. The decrease in the Play n Wear category was primarily driven by lower sales in toys and the apparel departments, partially offset by an increase in the electronics department. We allocated less space and reduced our assortment of toys and apparel during 2011, and allocated a portion of this space to electronics based on customer demand. The decrease in the Hardlines & Other category was driven by decreases in our tools and paint departments as less selling square footage was allocated to these departments in 2011 as compared to 2010. In addition, the Hardlines & Other category was impacted by the absence of certain drugstore closeout deals in 2011.For 2012, we expect sales to increase 8% to 9%, driven by net store growth of approximately 3%, comparable store sales growth of 2% to 3%, and the positive impact on sales of one additional week in 2012, as 2012 is a 53 week fiscal year.26Table of ContentsGross MarginGross margin dollars increased $33.6 million or 1.7% to $2,046.1 million in 2011, compared to $2,012.5 million in 2010. The increase in gross margin dollars was principally due to the increase in net sales which increased gross margin dollars by approximately $76.4 million. Partially offsetting the increase in net sales was the decrease in gross margin rate which decreased gross margin dollars by approximately $42.8 million. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased 80 basis points to 39.8% in 2011 compared to 40.6% in 2010. The gross margin rate decrease was principally due to the unfavorable merchandise mix impact caused by the strong sales of our lower margin Consumables category and electronics department, lower initial mark up on merchandise receipts, and higher shrink costs.For 2012, we expect our gross margin rate to be slightly higher than 2011, as we anticipate slightly lower levels of markdowns will be necessary to achieve our planned sales volume. Selling and Administrative ExpensesSelling and administrative expenses were $1,599.8 million in 2011, compared to $1,576.5 million in 2010. The increase of $23.3 million or 1.5% was primarily due to increases in rent expense of $14.7 million, store payroll expense of $9.3 million, advertising expense of $6.1 million, and outbound transportation expense of $4.2 million, partially offset by lower bonus expense of $17.1 million. Store payroll and store rents increased primarily due to the net increase of 53 stores compared to the end of 2010. The increase in advertising expense was driven by increased print distribution costs associated with new store growth, the roll out of new in store point of purchase presentations, and support for promotional events. The increase in outbound transportation costs was largely driven by the net increase of 53 stores along with higher diesel fuel prices. The decrease in bonus expense was directly related to lower financial performance during 2011 as compared to the targets in our 2011 operating plan and to 2010, which outperformed the targets in our 2010 operating plan.As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased by 70 basis points to 31.1% in 2011 compared to 31.8% in 2010. The decrease of 0.7% was primarily due to the effect of the increase in sales of 3.8% as selling and administrative expense dollars only increased 1.5% as discussed above. Our future selling and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales rate is dependent upon many factors including our level of net sales, our ability to implement additional efficiencies, principally in our store and distribution center operations, and fluctuating commodity prices, such as diesel fuel, which directly affects our outbound transportation cost. For 2012, we are forecasting an expense rate similar to or slightly higher than the rate achieved in 2011. Store expenses, distribution and transportation expenses, utilities, and credit card fees are expected to leverage as dollar growth in these areas is forecasted to be at a slower rate than our anticipated sales growth. Additionally, expenses are forecasted to leverage from the one additional week in 2012, which is a 53 week fiscal year. Offsetting this leverage, we believe costs will increase and deleverage in areas such as depreciation, incentive bonus expense, and share based compensation expense. Depreciation ExpenseDepreciation expense increased $9.9 million to $88.5 million in 2011 compared to $78.6 million in 2010. The increase is directly related to our new store growth, investments in systems, and capital spending to support and maintain our stores and distribution centers. Depreciation expense as a percentage of net sales increased by 10 basis points compared to 2010.For 2012, we expect capital expenditures of approximately $130 million to $135 million, which includes opening 90 new stores. Using this assumption and the run rate of depreciation on our existing property and equipment, we expect 2012 depreciation expense to be approximately $105 million, which would represent an increase from the $88.5 million of depreciation expense in 2011.Canadian SegmentWe consolidated the results of our Canadian segment from the date of acquisition (July 18, 2011) through the end of the year. Our Canadian segments net sales were $62.1 million, which exceeded our original expectations, as customers responded to fresh, new merchandise with an improved value proposition, particularly in furniture, electronics, toys, and Christmas trim. The higher than expected net sales resulted in a smaller than expected operating loss of $12.2 million. 27Table of ContentsOther Performance FactorsInterest ExpenseInterest expense increased $0.9 million to $3.5 million in 2011 compared to $2.6 million in 2010. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to prepayment fees incurred in connection with our repayment of the notes payable we assumed in the acquisition of Liquidation World Inc. We had total average borrowings (including capital leases) of $88.2 million in 2011 compared to total average borrowings of $24.0 million in 2010. Borrowings increased as a result of our execution of the 2011 Repurchase Program and the acquisition of Liquidation World Inc. Income TaxesThe effective income tax rate in 2011 and 2010 for income from continuing operations was 39.4% and 37.4%, respectively. The higher rate in 2011 is primarily due to a valuation allowance relative to the deferred tax benefit of the loss generated by our Canadian segment, the effect of U.S. income taxes on a lower pretax income base (driven by the loss generated by our Canadian segment) and a net decrease in favorable discrete income tax items. 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Net SalesNet sales by merchandise category, in dollars and as a percentage of total net sales, and net sales change in dollars and percentage from 2010 compared to 2009 were as follows:2010 2009 Change(in thousands) Consumables$1,452,78329.3% $1,456,37030.8% $(3,587)(0.2)%Furniture829,72516.8 716,78515.2 112,94015.8Play n Wear811,75016.4 806,24717.1 5,5030.7Home783,86015.8 717,74415.2 66,1169.2Seasonal642,22013.0 591,32112.5 50,8998.6Hardlines & Other431,9068.7 438,3059.2 (6,399)(1.5) Net sales$4,952,244100.0% $4,726,772100.0% $225,4724.8 %Net sales increased $225.5 million or 4.8% to $4,952.2 million in 2010 compared to $4,726.8 million in 2009. The increase in net sales was principally driven by the increase in net stores in 2010, which increased net sales by $114.3 million, and a 2.5% increase in comparable store sales, which increased net sales by $111.1 million. The average number of stores in operation throughout 2010 and 2009 was approximately 1,380 stores and 1,354 stores, respectively. The Furniture, Home, and Seasonal categories had the largest sales gains in 2010. Sales increased in all departments of the Furniture category driven by sales of new styles introduced during the year, improvement in the quality of goods, and successful promotional events targeted around certain holiday selling periods. The Home category sales increased across most of its departments with the largest gain in domestics, as we have improved the value proposition and quality of our product offerings. The Seasonal category increase was due to higher sales of Christmas, lawn & garden, and summer merchandise as customers responded to both our updated Christmas assortment and the value and newness offered in certain of our lawn & garden and summer items. The Play n Wear category sales improvement was primarily driven by the electronics department in the first half of 2010 through the sales of video games, which we began selling in the third fiscal quarter of 2009, partially offset by declining sales trends of toys. The Consumables category decrease was primarily due to lower food sales, as customers did not respond as expected to our offerings and assortment during the second half of 2010. The decrease in the Hardlines & Other category was primarily driven by the absences of certain drugstore closeout deals in 2010 that occurred in 2009.Gross MarginGross margin dollars increased $93.2 million, or 4.9%, to $2,012.5 million in 2010 compared to $1,919.3 million in 2009. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales was 40.6% in both 2010 and 2009. The primary contributor to the increased gross margin dollars was higher net sales of $225.5 million, which increased gross margin dollars by approximately $91.6 million. The gross margin rate remained flat at 40.6% in 2010 as compared to 2009. In 2010, we experienced positive trends with lower markdowns, lower shrink costs, and the impact of favorable merchandise mix, which were offset by higher inbound freight costs and lower initial markups on certain items sold during the Christmas selling season. Lower markdowns and favorable merchandise mix impact were the result of strong sales in our higher margin Seasonal and Home categories. Our lower shrink 28Table of Contentsrates were driven by positive results in our annual physical inventories. The increase in inbound freight costs was primarily driven by higher diesel fuel costs and higher domestic carrier costs. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $44.1 million, or 2.9%, to $1,576.5 million in 2010 compared to $1,532.4 million in 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher sales and a net increase of 37 stores in 2010. Compared to 2009, the largest increases were store payroll costs of $24.5 million, credit card/bank fees of $10.3 million, store rent expense of $9.1 million, and store facility and operation costs of $8.0 million. Partially offsetting these items was a decrease in advertising expenses of $4.2 million. The increase in store payroll was principally due to the incremental number of stores, store pre opening costs, and higher sales. The increase in credit card/bank fees was the result of higher rates charged by debit card network providers, which were increased at the end of the first quarter of 2010, and from increased sales. Store rents increased primarily due to the incremental number of stores. Store facility and operation costs increased due to the incremental number of stores, increased store pre opening costs (resulting from 80 store openings in 2010 as compared to 52 store openings in 2009), and increased repair costs primarily associated with our store refresh program. Advertising expense decreased primarily due to lower printing and distribution costs along with more efficient spending on our broadcast promotions. Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales were 31.8% in 2010 compared to 32.4% in 2009. The decrease of 0.6% was primarily due to the effect of the increase in sales of 4.8% as selling and administrative expense dollars only increased 2.9% as discussed above. Depreciation ExpenseDepreciation expense increased $3.7 million, or 4.9%, to $78.6 million in 2010 compared to $74.9 million for 2009. Depreciation expense as a percentage of sales was flat compared to 2009 at 160 basis points. The increase in depreciation expense was primarily related to our stores and was principally due to new store openings. During 2010, the Company opened 80 new stores, including relocations. Interest ExpenseInterest expense increased $0.8 million to $2.6 million in 2010 compared to $1.8 million in 2009. The increase in interest expense was principally due to higher average borrowings (including capital leases) of $24.0 million in 2010 compared to average borrowings of $8.6 million in 2009. The higher average borrowings was primarily driven by the timing of share repurchases under the 2010 Repurchase Program.Other Income (Expense)Other income (expense) increased $0.4 million in 2010 to $0.6 million compared to $0.2 million in 2009. The increase in interest and investment income was caused by the increase in funds available to invest in 2010 compared to 2009, partly offset by a decrease in investment yield. Our average invested amount in 2010 was $132.9 million compared to $68.9 million in 2009. In 2010, we invested primarily in deposits with financial institutions and highly liquid investments, including money market funds and variable rate demand notes. We held $126.1 million of investments at the end of 2010. Income TaxesOur effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations was 37.4% for 2010 compared to 37.7% for 2009. The lower rate in 2010 was principally due to the recognition of benefits resulting primarily from the recording of a deferred tax asset for net state credits, principally obtained during the third quarter of 2010, partially offset by (1) lower year over year tax benefits related to the settlement of uncertain tax positions and (2) the release of a valuation allowance on unrealized capital losses in 2009. Discontinued OperationsThere was minimal activity in discontinued operations in 2010 compared to a loss of $1.0 million, net of tax, in 2009. The 2009 loss from discontinued operations was primarily due to the KB II Bankruptcy Lease Obligations (see note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, we obtained assignment of a lease for the former KB II corporate office and recorded a charge of $0.7 million, net of tax, in loss from discontinued operations. The remaining $0.3 million loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, in 2009 pertained to other KB II Bankruptcy Lease Obligations. 29Table of ContentsCapital Resources and LiquidityOn July 22, 2011, we entered into the 2011 Credit Agreement. The 2011 Credit Agreement is scheduled to expire on July 22, 2016. In connection with our entry into the 2011 Credit Agreement, we paid bank fees and other expenses in the aggregate amount of $3.0 million, which are being amortized over the term of the agreement. Borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement are available for general corporate purposes, working capital, and to repay certain of our indebtedness, including amounts due under the 2009 Credit Agreement. The 2011 Credit Agreement includes a $10 million Canadian swing loan sublimit, a $30 million U.S. swing loan sublimit, a $150 million letter of credit sublimit and a $200 million Canadian revolving credit loan subfacility. The interest rates, pricing and fees under the 2011 Credit Agreement fluctuate based on our debt rating. The 2011 Credit Agreement allows us to select our interest rate for each borrowing from multiple interest rate options. The interest rate options are generally derived from the prime rate, LIBOR, or CDOR. We may prepay revolving loans made under the 2011 Credit Agreement. The 2011 Credit Agreement contains financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, limitations on indebtedness, liens and investments, as well as the maintenance of two financial ratios a leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio. A violation of any of the covenants could result in a default under the 2011 Credit Agreement that would permit the lenders to restrict our ability to further access the 2011 Credit Agreement for loans and letters of credit and require the immediate repayment of any outstanding loans under the 2011 Credit Agreement. At January 28, 2012, we were in compliance with the covenants of the 2011 Credit Agreement.We use the 2011 Credit Agreement, as necessary, to provide funds for ongoing and seasonal working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchase programs, and other expenditures. In addition, we use the 2011 Credit Agreement to provide letters of credit for various operating and regulatory requirements, a significant portion of which consists of letters of credit required as a result of our self funded insurance programs. Given the seasonality of our business, the amount of borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement may fluctuate materially depending on various factors, including our operating financial performance, the time of year, and our need to increase merchandise inventory levels prior to the peak selling season.The primary source of our liquidity is cash flows from operations and, as necessary, borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement. Our net income and, consequently, our cash provided by operations are impacted by net sales volume, seasonal sales patterns, and operating profit margins. Our net sales are typically highest during the nine week Christmas selling season in our fourth fiscal quarter. Generally, our working capital requirements peak late in our third fiscal quarter or early in our fourth fiscal quarter. We have typically funded those requirements with borrowings under our credit facility. In 2011, our total indebtedness (outstanding borrowings and letters of credit) peaked at approximately $400 million in November. At January 28, 2012, we had $65.9 million in borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement and the borrowings available under the 2011 Credit Agreement were $578.9 million, after taking into account the reduction in availability resulting from outstanding letters of credit totaling $55.2 million. We anticipate that total indebtedness under the 2011 Credit Agreement through June 15, 2012 will peak at less than $100 million, which includes outstanding letters of credit and the estimated impact of cash needs of Big Lots Canada, but excludes the impact of any potential share repurchase activity under the 2011 Repurchase Program. Working capital was $421.8 million at January 28, 2012. Whenever our liquidity position requires us to borrow funds under the 2011 Credit Agreement, we typically repay and or borrow on a daily basis. The daily activity is a net result of our liquidity position, which is generally driven by the following components of our operations: 1) cash inflows such as cash or credit card receipts collected from stores for merchandise sales and other miscellaneous deposits; and 2) cash outflows such as check clearings for the acquisition of merchandise, wire and other electronic transactions for the acquisition of merchandise, payroll and other operating expenses, income and other taxes, employee benefits, and other miscellaneous disbursements.Cash provided by operating activities increased by $3.2 million to $318.5 million in 2011 compared to $315.3 million in 2010. The increase was primarily driven by the change in our accounts payable leverage ratio, which resulted in a $14.9 million increase, and higher depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by our net income of $207.1 million in 2011, which was $15.4 million lower than our net income in 2010. At January 28, 2012, our accounts payable leverage ratio (accounts payable divided by inventory) increased to 42% from 40% at January 29, 2011, therefore driving an increase of $14.9 million. Net income in 2011 included $13.3 million of net loss generated by our Canadian segment.30Table of ContentsCash used in investing activities increased by $6.1 million to $120.7 million in 2011 compared to $114.6 million in 2010. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $23.7 million in capital expenditures to $131.3 million in 2011 compared to $107.6 million in 2010, as more stores were opened in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase was partially offset by the return of our $8.0 million deposit with an insurance carrier from a restricted account in the second quarter of 2011 that was initially deposited in the second quarter of 2010; therefore generating a $16.0 million change in cash flow from 2010 to 2011. Cash used in financing activities decreased by $0.6 million to $306.3 million in 2011 compared to $306.9 million in 2010. The primary driver of cash used in financing activities in 2011 and 2010 was our share repurchase activities. In 2011, we acquired $359.3 million of our common shares ($57.8 million under the 2010 Repurchase Program and $301.5 million under the 2011 Repurchase Program), as compared to the $342.2 million of our common shares we acquired in 2010 under the 2010 Repurchase Program. In addition, during the second quarter of 2011, we used $16.7 million to repay the outstanding notes payable we assumed in connection with our acquisition of Liquidation World Inc. In 2011 and 2010, we received proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $10.4 million and $32.5 million, respectively, which also generated excess tax benefits of $2.7 million and $13.8 million, respectively. Lastly, in 2011, we borrowed $65.9 million under the 2011 Credit Agreement to partially fund our share repurchases. Based on historical and expected financial results, we believe that we have or, if necessary, have the ability to obtain, adequate resources to fund ongoing and seasonal working capital requirements, proposed capital expenditures, new projects, and currently maturing obligations. Contractual ObligationsThe following table summarizes payments due under our contractual obligations at January 28, 2012: Payments Due by Period (1) Less than More than Total1 year1 to 3 years3 to 5 years5 years(In thousands) Obligations under bank credit facility (2)$65,975$75$$65,900$Operating lease obligations (3) (4)1,208,513311,751481,978257,859156,925Capital lease obligations (4)3,1621,3401,79131Purchase obligations (4) (5)815,971713,49584,93217,544Other long term liabilities (6)48,1905,3075,39111,01726,475 Total contractual obligations (7)$2,141,811$1,031,968$574,092$352,351$183,400(1)The disclosure of contractual obligations in this table is based on assumptions and estimates that we believe to be reasonable as of the date of this report. Those assumptions and estimates may prove to be inaccurate; consequently, the amounts provided in the table may differ materially from those amounts that we ultimately incur. Variables that may cause the stated amounts to vary from the amounts actually incurred include, but are not limited to: the termination of a contractual obligation prior to its stated or anticipated expiration; fees or damages incurred as a result of the premature termination or breach of a contractual obligation; the acquisition of more or less services or goods under a contractual obligation than are anticipated by us as of the date of this report; fluctuations in third party fees, governmental charges, or market rates that we are obligated to pay under contracts we have with certain vendors; and the exercise of renewal options under, or the automatic renewal of, contracts that provide for the same.(2)Obligations under the bank credit facility consist of the borrowings outstanding under the 2011 Credit Agreement, and the associated accrued interest of $0.1 million. In addition, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $55.2 million at January 28, 2012. Approximately $51.3 million of the outstanding letters of credit represent stand by letters of credit and we do not expect to meet the conditions requiring significant cash payments on these letters of credit; accordingly, they have been excluded from this table. The remaining outstanding letters of credit represent commercial letters of credit whereby the related obligation is included in the purchase obligations. For a further discussion, see note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.31Table of Contents(3)Operating lease obligations include, among other items, leases for retail stores, warehouse space, offices, and certain computer and other business equipment. The future minimum commitments for retail store, office, and warehouse space operating leases are $927.4 million. For a further discussion of leases, see note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Many of the store lease obligations require us to pay for our applicable portion of CAM, real estate taxes, and property insurance. In connection with our store lease obligations, we estimated that future obligations for CAM, real estate taxes, and property insurance were $269.5 million at January 28, 2012. We have made certain assumptions and estimates in order to account for our contractual obligations relative to CAM, real estate taxes, and property insurance. Those assumptions and estimates include, but are not limited to: use of historical data to estimate our future obligations; calculation of our obligations based on comparable store averages where no historical data is available for a particular leasehold; and assumptions related to average expected increases over historical data. The remaining lease obligation of $11.6 million relates primarily to operating leases for computer and other business equipment, including data center related costs.(4)For purposes of the lease and purchase obligation disclosures, we have assumed that we will make all payments scheduled or reasonably estimated to be made under those obligations that have a determinable expiration date, and we disregarded the possibility that such obligations may be prematurely terminated or extended, whether automatically by the terms of the obligation or by agreement between us and the counterparty, due to the speculative nature of premature termination or extension. Where an operating lease or purchase obligation is subject to a month to month term or another automatically renewing term, we included in the table our minimum commitment under such obligation, such as one month in the case of a month to month obligation and the then current term in the case of another automatically renewing term, due to the uncertainty of future decisions to exercise options to extend or terminate any existing leases.(5)Purchase obligations include outstanding purchase orders for merchandise issued in the ordinary course of our business that are valued at $514.0 million, the entirety of which represents obligations due within one year of January 28, 2012. In addition, we have a purchase commitment for future inventory purchases totaling $80.8 million at January 28, 2012. While we are not required to meet any periodic minimum purchase requirements under this commitment, we have included, for purposes of this tabular disclosure, the value of the purchases that we anticipate making during each of the reported periods as purchases that will count toward our fulfillment of the aggregate obligation. The remaining $221.2 million of purchase obligations is primarily related to distribution and transportation, information technology, print advertising, energy procurement, and other store security, supply, and maintenance commitments.(6)Other long term liabilities include $23.8 million for expected contributions to the Pension Plan and our nonqualified, unfunded supplemental defined benefit pension plan (Supplemental Pension Plan), $20.4 million for obligations related to our nonqualified deferred compensation plan, $2.3 million for unrecognized tax benefits, and $0.6 million for closed store lease termination costs related to stores closed in 2011. Pension contributions are equal to expected benefit payments for the nonqualified plan plus expected contributions to the qualified plan using actuarial estimates and assuming that we only make the minimum required contributions (see note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information about our employee benefit plans). We have estimated the payments due by period for the nonqualified deferred compensation plan based on an average of historical distributions. We have included unrecognized tax benefits of $1.5 million for payments expected in 2012 and $0.8 million of timing related income tax uncertainties anticipated to reverse in 2012. Unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $20.2 million have been excluded from the table because we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments. Our closed store lease termination cost payments are based on contractual terms.(7)The obligations disclosed in this table are exclusive of the contingent liabilities, guarantees, and indemnities related to the KB Toys business. For further discussion, see note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.32Table of ContentsOff Balance Sheet ArrangementsFor a discussion of the KB Bankruptcy Lease Obligations, see note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Because the KB Toys business filed for bankruptcy again in December 2008 and liquidated all of its store operations, we accrued a contingent liability on our balance sheet at January 30, 2010, in the amount of $4.8 million for 31 KB Toys store leases for which we may have an indemnification or guarantee obligation and a former KB Toys corporate office lease for which we took an assignment in 2009. At January 28, 2012, our contingent liability related to this matter was $3.1 million. Because of uncertainty inherent in the assumptions used to estimate this liability, our estimated liability could ultimately prove to be understated and could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, as well as the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions creates a level of uncertainty with respect to reported or disclosed amounts in our consolidated financial statements or accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, judgments, and assumptions, including those that management considers critical to the accurate presentation and disclosure of our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates, judgments, and assumptions on historical experience, current trends, and various other factors that management believes are reasonable under the circumstances. Because of the inherent uncertainty in using estimates, judgments, and assumptions, actual results may differ from these estimates. Our significant accounting policies, including the recently adopted accounting standards and recent accounting standards future adoptions, if any, are described in note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We believe the following assumptions and estimates are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Management has reviewed these critical accounting estimates and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.Merchandise InventoriesMerchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the average cost retail inventory method. Market is determined based on the estimated net realizable value, which generally is the merchandise selling price at or near the end of the reporting period. The average cost retail inventory method requires management to make judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of markdowns to clear slow moving inventory, the estimated allowance for shrinkage, and the estimated amount of excess or obsolete inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation and prior or future gross margin. These estimates are based on historical experience and current information.When management determines the salability of merchandise inventories is diminished, markdowns for clearance activity and the related cost impact are recorded at the time the price change decision is made. Factors considered in the determination of markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, the age of merchandise, and seasonal trends. Timing of holidays within fiscal periods, weather, and customer preferences could cause material changes in the amount and timing of markdowns from year to year. The inventory allowance for shrinkage is recorded as a reduction to inventories, charged to cost of sales, and calculated as a percentage of sales for the period from the last physical inventory date to the end of the reporting period. Such estimates are based on both our current year and historical inventory results. Independent physical inventory counts are taken at each store once a year. During calendar 2012, the majority of these counts will occur between January and September. As physical inventories are completed, actual results are recorded and new go forward shrink accrual rates are established based on individual store historical results. Thus, the shrink accrual rates will be adjusted throughout the January through September inventory cycle based on actual results. At January 28, 2012, a 10% difference in our shrink reserve would have affected gross margin, operating profit and income from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $3.6 million. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, we have loss prevention programs and policies aimed at minimizing shrinkage.33Table of ContentsLong Lived AssetsOur long lived assets primarily consist of property and equipment. We perform annual impairment reviews of our long lived assets at the store level. Generally, all other property and equipment is reviewed for impairment at the enterprise level. When we perform the annual impairment reviews, we first determine which stores had impairment indicators present. We use actual historical cash flows to determine which stores had negative cash flows within the past two years. For each store with negative cash flows, we obtain future cash flow estimates based on operating performance estimates specific to each stores operations that are based on assumptions currently being used to develop our company level operating plans. If the net book value of a stores long lived assets is not recoverable through the expected future cash flows of the store, we estimate the fair value of the stores assets and recognize an impairment charge for the excess net book value of the stores long lived assets over their fair value. The fair value of store assets is estimated based on information available in the marketplace for similar assets. We recognized impairment charges of less than $0.1 million and $0.4 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. We did not recognize an impairment charge in 2011, related to our stores. We believe that our impairment charges are trending lower because we have been closing underperforming stores over the past 5 years (primarily through non renewal of leases), and our store productivity continues to improve. In our U.S. segment, we only identified one store with impairment indicators as a result of our annual store impairment tests in 2011 and that store was planned to be, and was, closed by the end of 2011. Therefore, we do not believe that varying the assumptions used to test for recoverability to estimate fair value of our long lived assets would have a material impact on the impairment charges we incurred in 2011. In our Canadian segment, we did not note any significant impairment indicators. Further, the assets were recorded at fair value upon the acquisition of Liquidation World Inc.If our future operating results decline significantly, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material (for additional discussion of this risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors A significant decline in our operating profit and taxable income may impair our ability to realize the value of our long lived assets and deferred tax assets.). In addition to our annual store impairment reviews, we evaluate our other long lived assets at each reporting period to determine whether impairment indicators are present. In 2011, we reviewed our operational needs surrounding travel and determined that we needed to replace an aircraft due in part to the repair costs and declining reliability of the aging aircraft. As a result of this decision, we both purchased a new aircraft to meet our needs and placed an older aircraft in the market as available for sale. We recorded a $2.2 million impairment charge on the held for sale aircraft, based on market conditions at the time the decision was executed.GoodwillGoodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations.On an annual basis, we must review our goodwill for potential impairment. We will conduct an impairment review which consists of preparing an estimate of the fair value of our reporting segments using an income approach and a market approach. Determining the fair value of a reporting segment involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We will base our estimates of fair value on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We will perform our annual impairment testing during our second fiscal quarter of each year.34Table of ContentsShare Based CompensationWe grant stock options and performance based non vested restricted stock to our employees under shareholder approved incentive plans. Share based compensation expense was $25.0 million, $24.6 million, and $20.3 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Future share based compensation expense for performance based non vested restricted stock is dependent upon the future number of awards, fair value of our common shares on the grant date, and the estimated vesting period. Future share based compensation expense for stock options is dependent upon the number and terms of future stock option awards and many estimates, judgments and assumptions used in arriving at the fair value of stock options. Future share based compensation expense related to performance based non vested restricted stock and stock options may vary materially from the currently amortizing awards.We estimate the fair value of our stock options using a binomial model. The binomial model takes into account estimates, assumptions, and judgments about our stock price volatility, our dividend yield rate, the risk free rate of return, the contractual term of the option, the probability that the option will be exercised prior to the end of its contractual life, and the probability of retirement of the option holder in computing the value of the option. Expected volatility is based on historical and current implied volatilities from traded options on our common shares and those of our peers. The dividend yield rate on our common shares is assumed to be zero since we have not paid dividends and have no current plans to do so. The risk free rate is based on U.S. Treasury security yields at the time of the grant. The expected life is determined from the application of the binomial model and includes assumptions such as the expected employee exercise behavior and our expected forfeiture rate, which is based on analysis of historical data. Compensation expense for performance based non vested restricted stock awards is recorded over the estimated vesting period based on the estimated achievement date of the performance criteria. An estimated target achievement date is determined at the time of the award based on historical and forecasted performance of similar measures. We monitor the achievement of the performance targets at each reporting period and make adjustments to the estimated vesting period when our models indicate that the estimated achievement date differs from the date being used to amortize expense. Any change in the estimated vesting date results in a prospective change to the related expense by charging the remaining unamortized expense over the remaining expected vesting period at the date the estimate was changed. Income TaxesThe determination of our income tax expense, refunds receivable, income taxes payable, deferred tax assets and liabilities and financial statement recognition, de recognition and or measurement of uncertain tax benefits (for positions taken or to be taken on income tax returns) requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex accounting and multi jurisdictional income tax laws.The effective income tax rate in any period may be materially impacted by the overall level of income (loss) before income taxes, the jurisdictional mix and magnitude of income (loss), changes in the income tax laws (which may be retroactive to the beginning of the fiscal year), subsequent recognition, de recognition and or measurement of an uncertain tax benefit, changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and adjustments of a deferred tax asset or liability for enacted changes in tax laws or rates. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates resulting in a final tax outcome that may be materially different from that which is reflected in our consolidated financial statements.We evaluate our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise. We consider all available positive and negative evidence including recent financial results, projected future pretax accounting income from continuing operations and tax planning strategies (when necessary). This evaluation requires us to make assumptions that require significant judgment about the forecasts of future pretax accounting income. The assumptions that we use in this evaluation are consistent with the assumptions and estimates used to develop our consolidated operating financial plans. If we determine that a portion of our deferred tax assets, which principally represent expected future deductions or benefits, are not likely to be realized, we recognize a valuation allowance for our estimate of these benefits which we believe are not likely recoverable. Additionally, changes in tax laws, apportionment of income for state and provincial tax purposes, and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets. 35Table of ContentsWe evaluate the uncertainty of income tax positions taken or to be taken on income tax returns. When a tax position meets the more likely than not threshold, we recognize economic benefits associated with the position on our consolidated financial statements. The more likely than not recognition threshold is a positive assertion that an enterprise believes it is entitled to economic benefits associated with a tax position. When a tax position does not meet the more likely than not threshold, or in the case of those positions that do meet the threshold but are measured at less than the full benefit taken on the return, we recognize tax liabilities (or de recognize tax assets, as the case may be). A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have derecognized a tax benefit, is audited and fully resolved or clarified. We adjust unrecognized tax benefits and the income tax provision in the period in which an uncertain tax position is effectively or ultimately settled, the statute of limitations expires for the relevant taxing authority to examine the tax position, or as a result of the evaluation of new information that becomes available. PensionActuarial valuations are used to calculate the estimated expenses and obligations for our Pension Plan and Supplemental Pension Plan. Inherent in the actuarial valuations are several assumptions including discount rate and expected return on plan assets. We review external data and historical trends to help determine the discount rate and expected long term rate of return. Our objective in selecting a discount rate is to identify the best estimate of the rate at which the benefit obligations would be settled on the measurement date. In making this estimate, we review rates of return on high quality, fixed income investments available at the measurement date and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the benefits. This process includes a review of the bonds available on the measurement date with a quality rating of Aa or better. The expected long term rate of return on assets is derived from detailed periodic studies, which include a review of asset allocation strategies, anticipated future long term performance of individual asset classes, risks (standard deviations) and correlations of returns among the asset classes that comprise the plans asset mix. While the studies give appropriate consideration to recent plan performance and historical returns, the assumption is primarily a long term, prospective rate of return. The weighted average discount rate used to determine the net periodic pension cost for 2011 was 5.7%. A 1.0% decrease in the discount rate would increase net periodic pension cost by $0.8 million. The long term rate of return on assets used to determine net periodic pension cost in 2011 was 8.0%. A 1.0% decrease in the expected long term rate of return on plan assets would increase the net periodic pension cost by $0.6 million.During 2011, we reclassified $1.1 million, net of tax, from other comprehensive income to expense in our consolidated statement of operations. We recognized a benefit of $0.2 million, net of tax, to other comprehensive income in 2011, which was principally driven by the recognition of $0.3 million (pretax) in settlement charges as participants elected more lump sum payments than originally estimated. At January 28, 2012, the accumulated other comprehensive income amount associated with the plans, which was principally unrealized actuarial loss, was $14.5 million loss, net of tax. During 2012, and in future periods, we expect to reclassify approximately $2.7 million from other comprehensive income to expense, assuming we achieve our estimated rate of return on pension plan investments in future periods. Additionally, in the event that we have future settlements, as occurred in 2011 and 2010, we would expect that the pretax expense related to future settlements would be between the $0.3 million and $1.8 million charges in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Insurance and Insurance Related ReservesWe are self insured for certain losses relating to property, general liability, workers compensation, and employee medical and dental benefit claims, a portion of which is funded by employees. We purchase stop loss coverage from third party insurance carriers to limit individual or aggregate loss exposure in these areas. Accrued insurance liabilities and related expenses are based on actual claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. The estimated loss accruals for claims incurred but not paid are determined by applying actuarially based calculations taking into account historical claims payment results and known trends such as claims frequency and claims severity. Management makes estimates, judgments, and assumptions with respect to the use of these actuarially based calculations, including but not limited to, estimated health care cost trends, estimated lag time to report and pay claims, average cost per claim, network utilization rates, network discount rates, and other factors. A 10% change in our self insured liabilities at January 28, 2012 would have affected selling and administrative expenses, operating profit, and income from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $8 million.General liability and workers compensation liabilities are recorded at our estimate of their net present value, using a 4.0% discount rate, while other liabilities for insurance reserves are not discounted. A 1.0% change in the discount rate on these liabilities would have affected selling and administrative expenses, operating profit, and income from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $1.8 million.36Table of ContentsLease AccountingIn order to recognize rent expense on our leases, we evaluate many factors to identify the lease term such as the contractual term of the lease, our assumed possession date of the property, renewal option periods, and the estimated value of leasehold improvement investments that we are required to make. Based on this evaluation, our lease term is typically the minimum contractually obligated period over which we have control of the property. This term is used because although many of our leases have renewal options, we typically do not incur an economic or contractual penalty in the event of non renewal. Therefore, we typically use the initial minimum lease term for purposes of calculating straight line rent, amortizing deferred rent, and recognizing depreciation expense on our leasehold improvements. CommitmentsFor a discussion on certain of our commitments, refer to note 3, note 5, note 10, and note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskWe are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates on investments and on borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreement that we make from time to time. We had borrowings of $65.9 million under the 2011 Credit Agreement at January 28, 2012. An increase of 1.0% in our variable interest rate on our investments and expected future borrowings would not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.Through the operations of Big Lots Canada, we are subject to market risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the Canadian Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. An increase or decrease of 1% in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.37Table of Contents
 
