FILE:SPG/SPG-8K-20080730162551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.03  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On July 24, 2008, the Board of Directors of Simon Property Group, Inc. (the "Company") amended Article I of the Company's By-Laws to clarify that the advance notice provisions apply to all stockholder proposals and nominations. The amendments to Article I also require any stockholder who provides advance notice of a stockholder proposal or nomination to provide additional information to the Company as part of such notice, including information as to whether the stockholder has entered into any hedging or other transaction that has the effect or intent of managing its economic risk or increasing its voting power with respect to the Company's common stock.  In addition, the amendments to Article I require the person proposed to be nominated to provide a completed questionnaire in the form completed by other nominees and an agreement by which the proposed nominee would not enter into arrangements that would impair his or her ability to act as a director.
 
This summary is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the By-Laws, as amended, a copy of which is being filed as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  July 30, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
EXECUTED 07 24 08
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED
SECTION 1.01.  ANNUAL MEETING.  Simon Property Group, Inc. (the "Corporation") shall hold an annual meeting of its stockholders to elect directors and transact any other business within its powers, at such place, on such date, and at such time as shall be set by the Board of Directors.  Except as the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Charter"), these By-Laws, or statute provides otherwise, any business may be considered at an annual meeting without the purpose of the meeting having been specified in the notice.  Failure to hold an annual meeting does not invalidate the Corporation's existence or affect any otherwise valid corporate acts.
 
SECTION 1.02. SPECIAL MEETING.  At any time in the interval between annual meetings, a special meeting of the stockholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board, or a Co-Chairman of the Board or the President or by a majority of the Board of Directors by vote at a meeting or in writing (addressed to the Secretary of the Corporation) with or without a meeting.
 
SECTION 1.03. PLACE OF MEETINGS.  Meetings of stockholders shall be held at such place in the United States as is set from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 1.04. NOTICE OF MEETINGS; WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Not less than ten nor more than 60 days before each stockholders meeting, the Secretary shall give written notice of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting and each other stockholder entitled to notice of the meeting.  The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting and, if the meeting is a special meeting or notice of the purpose is required by statute, the purpose of the meeting.  Notice is given to a stockholder when it is personally delivered to him, left at his residence or usual place of business, or mailed to him at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, each person who is entitled to notice waives notice if he or she before or after the meeting signs a waiver of the notice which is filed with the records of stockholders' meetings, or is present at the meeting in person or by proxy (except as otherwise provided by Section 229 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware).
 
SECTION 1.05. QUORUM; VOTING.  Unless any statute or the Charter provides otherwise, at a meeting of stockholders the presence in person or by proxy of stockholders entitled
 
 
to cast a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting constitutes a quorum, and the affirmative vote of a majority of all the votes cast at a meeting at which a quorum is present is sufficient to approve any matter which properly comes before the meeting, except that a plurality of all the votes cast at a meeting at which a quorum is present is sufficient to elect a director.
 
SECTION 1.06. ADJOURNMENTS.  Whether or not a quorum is present, a meeting of stockholders convened on the date for which it was called may be adjourned from time to time by a majority vote of the stockholders present in person or by proxy entitled to vote without notice other than by announcement at the meeting.  Any business which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified may be deferred and transacted at any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present.
 
SECTION 1.07. GENERAL RIGHT TO VOTE; PROXIES.  Unless the Charter provides otherwise, each outstanding share of stock, regardless of class, is entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of stockholders.  In all elections for directors, each share of stock entitled to vote may be voted for as many individuals as there are directors to be elected and for whose election the share is entitled to be voted.  A stockholder may vote the stock he or she owns of record either in person or by proxy authorized by an instrument in writing or by a transmission permitted by law.  Unless a proxy provides otherwise, it is not valid more than three years after its date.
 
SECTION 1.08. LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS.  The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every election of directors, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open at the place where the election is to be held for said ten days, to the examination of any stockholder, and shall be produced and kept at the time and place of election during the whole time thereof, and subject to the inspection of any stockholder who may be present.
 
SECTION 1.09. BUSINESS OF STOCKHOLDER MEETINGS.  At each annual meeting, the stockholders shall conduct only such business as shall have been properly brought before the meeting.  The proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting may be made only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 1.04, (b) by, or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who gives notice in accordance with notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.09 on a timely basis and who is entitled to vote at the meeting.
 
To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be in writing and delivered to or mailed to the Secretary of the Corporation and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of the first anniversary of the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation; provided,
 
however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than thirty (30) days from the date of the previous year's meeting, to be timely, notice by the stockholder must be received not later than the close of business on the later of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of such annual meeting or ten (10) calendar days following the date on which public announcement of the date of the meeting is first made.  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to any business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (ii) any material interest that such stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below) has in such business, and (iii) if the proposal or business is to be included in the Corporation's proxy statement, the text of the proposal or business (including the language of any proposed amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws); (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and each Stockholder Associated Person of such stockholder, (i) the name and address of such stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person, (ii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person as of the date such notice is given, (iii) any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares of stock) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss or to manage risk of stock price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to the shares of stock of the Corporation, and (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business; and (c) if the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person intends, or is part of a group that intends, to solicit proxies in support of such proposal, a representation to that effect.
 
Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws, the Certificate of Incorporation, or any applicable law to the contrary, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.09 and to declare that any defective proposal be disregarded.
 
For purposes of these By-Laws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14, or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
 
1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").  "Stockholder Associated Person" of any stockholder means (i) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder and (iii) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with a Stockholder Associated Person as defined in the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii).
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with the respect to the matters set forth in this Section 1.09.
 
SECTION 1.10. NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER NOMINATIONS.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 1.04, (b) by, or at the direction of, the Board of Directors, or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.10 and who is entitled to vote at the meeting.
 
To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed to the Secretary of the Corporation and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of the first anniversary of the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than thirty (30) days from the date of the previous year's meeting, to be timely, notice by the stockholder must be received not later than the close of business on the later of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of such annual meeting or ten (10) calendar days following the date on which public announcement of the date of the meeting is first made.  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined in Section 1.09 of these By-Laws) of such stockholder, (i) the name and address of such stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person, (ii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person as of the date such notice is given, and (iii) any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the stockholder and any Stockholder
 
Associated Person and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares of stock) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss or to manage risk of stock price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to the shares of stock of the Corporation; and (c) if the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person intends, or is part of a group that intends, to solicit proxies in support of such nominees, a representation to that effect.
 
To be eligible to be a nominee for election as a director of the Corporation, the person proposed to be nominated must also deliver or mail to the Secretary within ten (10) days of delivery of the notice of nomination contemplated in the preceding paragraph an executed questionnaire (in the form available from the Secretary) with respect to the background and qualification of such person to serve as a director of the Corporation and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made and an executed representation and agreement (in the form available from the Secretary) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed in the representation and agreement, and (C) if elected as a director of the Corporation, would comply with the Corporation's requirements for ownership of its shares of stock within ninety (90) days after being elected and will comply with all other applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
 
No person nominated by any stockholder shall be qualified to serve as a director unless the nomination is made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10.  Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws, the Certificate of Incorporation, or any applicable law to the contrary, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a director was nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein and to declare that any defective nomination be disregarded.
 
SECTION 1.11. CONDUCT OF VOTING.  At all meetings of stockholders, unless the voting is conducted by inspectors, the proxies and ballots shall be received, and all questions touching the qualification of voters and the validity of proxies, the acceptance or rejection of votes and procedures for the conduct of business not otherwise specified by these By-Laws, the
 
Charter or law, shall be decided or determined by the chairman of the meeting.  Unless required by law, no vote need be by ballot and voting need not be conducted by an inspector.  No candidate for election as a director at a meeting shall serve as an inspector thereat.
 
SECTION 2.01.  FUNCTION OF DIRECTORS.  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Directors.  All powers of the Corporation may be exercised by or under authority of the Board of Directors, except as conferred on or reserved to the stockholders by statute or by the Charter or By-Laws.
 
SECTION 2.02.  NUMBER OF DIRECTORS.  The Corporation shall have that number of directors as provided in paragraph (a) of Article FIFTH of the Charter.
 
SECTION 2.03.  REMOVAL OF DIRECTOR.  Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed only in accordance with the provisions of the Charter and General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
SECTION 2.04.  VACANCY ON BOARD.  Subject to the rights of the holders of any class of Preferred Stock then outstanding, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors shall be filled by a vote of the stockholders or a majority of the directors in office on the Board of Directors, and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office, or other cause shall be filled in accordance with paragraph (b) of Article FIFTH of the Charter.
 
SECTION 2.05.  REGULAR MEETINGS.  After each meeting of stockholders at which directors shall have been elected, the Board of Directors shall meet as soon as practicable for the purpose of organization and the transaction of other business.  In the event that no other time and place are specified by resolution of the Board of Directors, the President, the Chairman of the Board or a Co-Chairman of the Board, with notice in accordance with Section 2.07, the Board of Directors shall meet immediately following the close of such stockholders' meeting.  Any other regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held on such date and at any place as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 2.06.  SPECIAL MEETINGS.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, a Co-Chairman of the Board, or the President or by a majority of the Board of Directors by vote at a meeting, or in writing with or without a meeting.  A special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held on such date and at any place as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.  In the absence of designation such meeting shall be held at such place as may be designated in the call.
 
SECTION 2.07.  NOTICE OF MEETING.  Except as provided in Section 2.05, the Secretary shall give notice to each director of each regular and special meeting of the Board of Directors.  The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting.  Notice is given to a director when it is delivered personally to him, left at his residence or usual place of business, or sent by telegraph, facsimile transmission or telephone, at least 24 hours before the time of the meeting or, in the alternative by mail to his address as it shall appear on the records of the Corporation, at least 72 hours before the time of the meeting.  Unless the By-Laws or a resolution of the Board of Directors provides otherwise, the notice need not state the business to be transacted at or the purposes of any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors.  No notice of any meeting of the Board of Directors need be given to any director who attends except where a director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened, or to any director who, in writing executed and filed with the records of the meeting either before or after the holding thereof, waives such notice.  Any meeting of the Board of Directors, regular or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and no notice need be given of any such adjourned meeting other than by announcement.
 
SECTION 2.08.  ACTION BY DIRECTORS.  Unless statute or the Charter or By-Laws requires a greater proportion, the action of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present is action of the Board of Directors.  A majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  In the absence of a quorum, the directors present by majority vote and without notice other than by announcement may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall attend.  At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.  Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting, if an unanimous written consent which sets forth the action is signed by each member of the Board and filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board.
 
SECTION 2.09.  MEETING BY CONFERENCE TELEPHONE.  Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment if all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time.  Participation in a meeting by these means constitutes presence in person at a meeting.
 
SECTION 2.10.  COMPENSATION.  By resolution of the Board of Directors a fixed sum and expenses, if any, for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or of committees thereof, and other compensation for their services as such or on committees of the Board of Directors, may be paid to directors.  Directors who are employees of the Corporation need not be paid for attendance at meetings of the board or committees thereof for
 
which fees are paid to other directors.  A director who serves the Corporation in any other capacity also may receive compensation for such other services, pursuant to a resolution of the directors.
 
SECTION 2.11.  ADVISORY DIRECTORS.  The Board of Directors may by resolution appoint advisory directors to the Board, who may also serve as directors emeriti, and shall have such authority and receive such compensation and reimbursement as the Board of Directors shall provide.  Advisory directors or directors emeriti shall not have the authority to participate by vote in the transaction of business.
 
SECTION 2.12.  SURETY BONDS.  Unless required by law, no director shall be obligated to give any bond or surety or other security for the performance of any of his or her duties.
 
 
SECTION 3.01.  COMMITTEES.  In accordance with the Charter, the Board of Directors may appoint an Executive Committee, an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Nominating Committee and other committees composed of one or more directors and delegate to these committees any of the powers of the Board of Directors, except the power to declare dividends or other distributions on stock, elect directors, issue stock other than as provided in the next sentence, recommend to the stockholders any action which requires stockholder approval, amend the By-Laws, or approve any merger or share exchange which does not require stockholder approval.  If the Board of Directors has given general authorization for the issuance of stock, a committee of the Board of Directors, in accordance with a general formula or method specified by the Board of Directors by resolution or by adoption of a stock option or other plan, may fix the terms of stock subject to the terms on which any stock may be issued, including all terms and conditions required or permitted to be established or authorized by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 3.02.  COMMITTEE PROCEDURE.  Each committee may fix rules of procedure for its business.  A majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the committee.  Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of a committee may be taken without a meeting, if a unanimous written consent which sets forth the action is signed by each committee member and filed with the minutes of the committee.  The members of a committee may conduct any meeting thereof by conference telephone in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.9.
 
SECTION 4.01.  EXECUTIVE AND OTHER OFFICERS.  The Corporation shall have a President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer.  The Corporation may also have a Chairman, or Co-Chairmen, of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Operating Officer, one or more Vice-Presidents, assistant officers, and subordinate officers as may be established by the Board of Directors.  A person may hold more than one office in the Corporation except that no person may serve concurrently as both President and Vice-President of the Corporation.  The Chairman of the Board, or each of the Co-Chairmen of the Board, as the case may be, shall be a director; the other officers may be directors.
 
SECTION 4.02.  CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD.  The Chairman, or Co-Chairmen, of the Board, if elected, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he or she or they shall be present.  In general, the Chairman of the Board and a Co-Chairman of the Board shall perform all such duties as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 4.03.  VICE CHAIRMAN.  The Vice Chairman of the Board, if one be elected by the Board of Directors, shall be an officer of the Corporation.  In general, the Vice Chairman of the Board shall perform all such duties as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 4.04.  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.  The Chief Executive Officer shall be the principal executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the control of the Board of Directors and with the President, shall in general supervise and control all of the business and affairs of the Corporation.  In general, he or she shall perform such other duties usually performed by a chief executive officer of a corporation and such other duties as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, if one be elected, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board or a Co-Chairman of the Board, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he or she shall be present.
 
SECTION 4.05.  PRESIDENT.  Unless otherwise specified by the Board of Directors, the President shall be the principal operating officer of the Corporation and perform the duties customarily performed by a principal operating officer of a corporation.  If no Chief Executive Officer is appointed, he or she shall also serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.  The President may sign and execute, in the name of the Corporation, all authorized deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments, except in cases in which the signing and execution thereof shall have been expressly delegated to some other officer or agent of the Corporation.  In general, he or she shall perform such other duties usually performed by a president of
 
a corporation and such other duties as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.  Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, the President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, a Co-Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he or she shall be present.
 
SECTION 4.06.  CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER.  The Chief Operating Officer, at the request of the Chief Executive Officer or the President, or in the President's absence or during his inability to act, shall perform the duties and exercise the functions of the President, and when so acting shall have the powers of the President.  Unless otherwise specified by the Board of Directors, he or she shall perform such other duties usually performed by a chief operating officer of a corporation and such other duties as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President of the Corporation.
 
SECTION 4.07.  VICE-PRESIDENTS.  The Vice-President or Vice-Presidents, at the request of the Chief Executive Officer or the President or the Chief Operating Officer, or in the Chief Operating Officer's absence or during his inability to act, shall perform the duties and exercise the functions of the Chief Operating Officer, and when so acting shall have the powers of the Chief Operating Officer.  If there be more than one Vice-President, the Board of Directors may determine which one or more of the Vice-Presidents shall perform any of such duties or exercise any of such functions, or if such determination is not made by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President may make such determination; otherwise any of the Vice-Presidents may perform any of such duties or exercise any of such functions.  The Vice-President or Vice-Presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties, and have such additional descriptive designations in their titles (if any), as are from time to time assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President of the Corporation.
 
SECTION 4.08.  SECRETARY.  The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the stockholders, of the Board of Directors and of any committees, in books provided for the purpose; he or she shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws or as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records of the Corporation; he or she may witness any document on behalf of the Corporation, the execution of which is duly authorized, see that the corporate seal is affixed where such document is required or desired to be under its seal, and, when so affixed, may attest the same; and, in general, the Secretary shall perform all duties incident to the office of a secretary of a corporation, and such other duties as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President of the Corporation.
 
SECTION 4.09.  TREASURER.  The Treasurer shall have charge of and be responsible for all funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation, and shall deposit, or
 
cause to be deposited, in the name of the Corporation, all moneys or other valuable effects in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall, from time to time, be selected by the Board of Directors; he or she shall render to the President and to the Board of Directors, whenever requested, an account of the financial condition of the Corporation; and, in general, the Treasurer shall perform all the duties incident to the office of a treasurer of a corporation, and such other duties as are from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive officer, or the President of the Corporation.
 
SECTION 4.10.  ASSISTANT AND SUBORDINATE OFFICERS.  The assistant and subordinate officers of the Corporation are all officers below the office of Vice-President, Secretary, or Treasurer.  The assistant or subordinate officers shall have such duties as are from time to time assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President of the Corporation.
 
SECTION 4.11.  ELECTION, TENURE AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.  The Board of Directors shall elect the officers.  The Board of Directors may from time to time authorize any committee or officer to appoint assistant and subordinate officers.  Election or appointment of an officer, employee or agent shall not of itself create contract rights.  All officers shall be appointed to hold their offices, respectively, during the pleasure of the Board.  The Board of Directors (or, as to any assistant or subordinate officer, any committee or officer authorized by the Board) may remove an officer at any time.  The removal of an officer does not prejudice any of his contract rights.  The Board of Directors (or, as to any assistant or subordinate officer, any committee or officer authorized by the Board) may fill a vacancy which occurs in any office for the unexpired portion of the term.
 
SECTION 4.12.  COMPENSATION.  The Board of Directors shall have power to fix the salaries and other compensation and remuneration, of whatever kind, of all officers of the Corporation.  No officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that he or she is also a director of the Corporation.  The Board of Directors may authorize any committee or officer, upon whom the power of appointing assistant and subordinate officers may have been conferred, to fix the salaries, compensation and remuneration of such assistant and subordinate officers.
 
SECTION 5.01.  CONFERRING DIVISIONAL TITLES.  The Board of Directors may from time to time confer upon any employee of a division of the Corporation the title of President, Vice President, Treasurer or Controller of such division or any other title or titles deemed appropriate, or may authorize the Chairman of the Board, a Co-Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President to do so.  Any such titles so conferred may be discontinued
 
and withdrawn at any time by the Board of Directors, or by the Chairman of the Board, or a Co-Chairman of the Board or the President if so authorized by the Board of Directors.  Any employee of a division designated by such a divisional title shall have the powers and duties with respect to such division as shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, a Co-Chairman of the Board, or the President.
 
SECTION 5.02. EFFECT OF DIVISIONAL TITLES.  The conferring of divisional titles, as described in Section 5.01 hereof, shall not create an office of the Corporation under Article IV unless specifically designated as such by the Board of Directors; but any person who is an officer of the Corporation may also have a divisional title.
 
SECTION 6.01.  CERTIFICATES FOR STOCK; UNCERTIFICATED SHARES.  The shares of the Corporation may be represented by certificates or may be uncertificated as provided under the laws of the State of Delaware.  Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, a Co-Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or a Vice-President, and countersigned by the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, or an Assistant Treasurer.  Each stock certificate shall include on its face the name of the Corporation, the name of the stockholder or other person to whom it is issued, and the class of stock and number of shares it represents.  It shall be in such form, not inconsistent with law or with the Charter, as shall be approved by the Board of Directors or any officer or officers designated for such purpose by resolution of the Board of Directors.  Each certificate may be sealed with the actual corporate seal or a facsimile of it or in any other form and the signatures may be either manual or facsimile signatures.  A certificate is valid and may be issued whether or not an officer who signed it is still an officer when it is issued.  A certificate may not be issued until the stock represented by it is fully paid.  Notwithstanding the above, the issuance of uncertificated shares shall not affect shares already represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation.
 
SECTION 6.02.  TRANSFERS.  The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates of stock or uncertificated shares; and may appoint transfer agents and registrars thereof.  The duties of transfer agent and registrar may be combined.
 
SECTION 6.03.  RECORD DATES.  The Board of Directors may set a record date for the purpose of making any proper determination with respect to stockholders, including which stockholders are entitled to notice of a meeting, vote at a meeting, receive a dividend, or be allotted other rights.  The record date may not be prior to the close of business on the day the record date is fixed nor, subject to Section 1.06, more than 60 days before the date on which the
 
action requiring the determination will be taken; and, in the case of a meeting of stockholders, the record date shall be at least ten days before the date of the meeting.
 
SECTION 6.04. STOCK LEDGER.  The Corporation shall maintain a stock ledger which contains the name and address of each stockholder and the number of shares of stock of each class which the stockholder holds.  The stock ledger may be in written form or in any other form which can be converted within a reasonable time into written form for visual inspection.  The original or a duplicate of the stock ledger shall be kept at the offices of a transfer agent for the particular class of stock, or, if none, at the principal office in the State of Delaware or the principal executive offices of the Corporation.
 
SECTION 6.05.  LOST STOCK CERTIFICATES.  The Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine the conditions for issuing a new stock certificate or uncertificated share in place of a stock certificate which is alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, or the Board of Directors may delegate such power to any officer or officers of the Corporation.  In their discretion, the Board of Directors or such officer or officers may refuse to issue such new certificate or uncertificated share save upon the order of some court having jurisdiction in the premises.
 
SECTION 7.01.  CHECKS, DRAFTS, ETC.  All checks, drafts and orders for the payment of money, notes and other evidences of indebtedness, issued in the name of the Corporation, shall, unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice-President or an Assistant Vice-President and countersigned by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.
 
SECTION 7.02.  FISCAL YEAR.  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the twelve calendar months period ending December 31 in each year, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 7.03.  DIVIDENDS.  If declared by the Board of Directors at any meeting thereof, the Corporation may pay dividends on its shares in cash, property, or in shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, unless such dividend is contrary to law or to a restriction contained in the Charter.
 
SECTION 7.04. CONTRACTS.  To the extent permitted by applicable law, and except as otherwise prescribed by the Charter or these By-Laws with respect to certificates for shares, the Board of Directors may authorize any officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the
 
Corporation.  Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
 
SECTION 8.01. PROCEDURE.  Any indemnification, or payment of expenses, for which mandatory payments must be made under the Charter, in advance of the final disposition of any proceeding, shall be made promptly, and in any event within 60 days, upon the written request of the director or officer entitled to seek indemnification (the "Indemnified Party").  The right to indemnification and advances hereunder shall be enforceable by the Indemnified Party in any court of competent jurisdiction, if (i) the Corporation denies such request, in whole or in part, or (ii) no disposition thereof is made within 60 days.  The Indemnified Party's costs and expenses incurred in connection with successfully establishing his right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such action shall also be reimbursed by the Corporation.  It shall be a defense to any action for advance for expenses that (a) a determination has been made that the facts then known to those making the determination would preclude indemnification or (b) the Corporation has not received both (i) an undertaking as required by law to repay such advances in the event it shall ultimately be determined that the standard of conduct has not been met and (ii) a written affirmation by the Indemnified Party of such Indemnified Party's good faith belief that the standard of conduct necessary for indemnification by the Corporation has been met.
 
SECTION 8.02.  EXCLUSIVITY, ETC.  The indemnification and advance of expenses provided by the Charter and these By-Laws shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a person seeking indemnification or advance of expenses may be entitled under any law (common or statutory), or any agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or other provision that is consistent with law, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office or while employed by or acting as agent for the Corporation, shall continue in respect of all events occurring while a person was a director or officer after such person has ceased to be a director or officer, and shall inure to the benefit of the estate, heirs, executors and administrators of such person.  All rights to indemnification and advance of expenses under the Charter of the Corporation and hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director or officer of the Corporation who serves or served in such capacity at any time while this By-Law is in effect.  Nothing herein shall prevent the amendment of this By-Law, provided that no such amendment shall diminish the rights of any person hereunder with respect to events occurring or claims made before its adoption or as to claims made after its adoption in respect of events occurring before its adoption.  Any repeal or modification of this By-Law shall not in any way diminish any rights to indemnification or advance of expenses of such director or officer or the obligations of the Corporation arising hereunder with respect to events occurring, or claims made, while this By-Law or any provision hereof is in force.
 
SECTION 8.03.  SEVERABILITY; DEFINITIONS. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Article VIII shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof. The phrase "this By-Law" in this Article VIII means this Article VIII in its entirety.
 
SECTION 9.01.  BOOKS AND RECORDS.  The Corporation shall keep correct and complete books and records of its accounts and transactions and minutes of the proceedings of its stockholders and Board of Directors and of any executive or other committee when exercising any of the powers of the Board of Directors.  The books and records of a Corporation may be in written form or in any other form which can be converted within a reasonable time into written form for visual inspection.  Minutes shall be recorded in written form but may be maintained in the form of a reproduction.  The original or a certified copy of the By-Laws shall be kept at the principal office of the Corporation.
 
SECTION 9.02.  CORPORATE SEAL.  The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal, bearing the name of the Corporation, which shall be in the charge of the Secretary.  The Board of Directors may authorize one or more duplicate seals and provide for the custody thereof.  If the Corporation is required to place its corporate seal to a document, it is sufficient to meet the requirement of any law, rule, or regulation relating to a corporate seal to place the word "Seal" adjacent to the signature of the person authorized to sign the document on behalf of the Corporation.
 
SECTION 9.03.  BONDS.  The Board of Directors may require any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation to give a bond to the Corporation, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his duties, with one or more sureties and in such amount as may be satisfactory to the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 9.04. VOTING UPON SHARES IN OTHER CORPORATIONS.  Stock of other corporations or associations, registered in the name of the Corporation, may be voted by the President, a Vice-President, or a proxy appointed by either of them.  The Board of Directors, however, may by resolution appoint some other person to vote such shares, in which case such person shall be entitled to vote such shares upon the production of a certified copy of such resolution.
 
SECTION 9.05.  MAIL.  Any notice or other document which is required by these By-Laws to be mailed shall be deposited in the United States mails, postage prepaid.
 
SECTION 9.06.  EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS.  A person who holds more than
 
one office in the Corporation may not act in more than one capacity to execute, acknowledge, or verify an instrument required by law to be executed, acknowledged, or verified by more than one officer.
 
SECTION 9.07.  RELIANCE.  Each director, officer, employee and agent of the Corporation shall, in the performance of his or her duties with respect to the Corporation, be fully justified and protected with regard to any act or failure to act in reliance in good faith upon the books of account or other records of the Corporation, upon an opinion of counsel or upon reports made to the Corporation by any of its officers or employees or by the adviser, accountants, appraisers or other experts or consultants selected by the Board of Directors or officers of the Corporation, regardless of whether such counsel or expert may also be a director.
 
SECTION 9.08.  CERTAIN RIGHTS OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS.  The directors shall have no responsibility to devote their full time to the affairs of the Corporation.  Any director or officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, in his or her personal capacity or in a capacity as an affiliate, employee, or agent of any other person, or otherwise, may have business interests and engage in business activities similar to or in addition to those of or relating to the Corporation.
 
SECTION 9.09.  AMENDMENTS.  In accordance with the Charter, these By-Laws may be repealed, altered, amended or rescinded by the stockholders of the Corporation (considered for this purpose as one class) by the affirmative vote of not less than 80% of all the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors which are cast on the matter at any meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose (provided that notice of such proposed repeal, alteration, amendment or rescission is included in the notice of such meeting).


