FILE:AES/AES-8K-20021120163519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Recent Developments
Since November 12, 2002, the following events have occurred:
In addition to the notice of termination delivered to TXU Energy, AES Drax Power also delivered a demand for payment to TXU Europe, as guarantor under the Hedging Contract, for payment of all amounts then due under the Hedging Contract. In accordance with the terms of the guarantee, payment is required to be made within three business days of delivery of the demand for payment.
Forward Looking Statements
        Certain statements included in this report are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believe," "expects," "may," "intends," "will," "should," or "anticipates," or the negative forms of other variations of these terms of comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. Future results covered by the forward-looking statements may not be achieved. Forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
        Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we have identified some of these risks, uncertainties and other important factors in this report and you should also review "Item 1. Key Information  Risk Factors" in the Annual Report on Form 20-F filed by each of AES Drax Energy and AES Drax Holdings Limited for the year ended December 31, 2001, which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.
        You should also consider, among others, the following important factors:
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. We do not intend to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report, and we do not assume any responsibility to do so.


