FILE:AES/AES-8K-20021217172021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5. Other Events
             
Information Related to AES Drax Holdings Limited
             On December 13, 2002, The AES Corporation's (the "Registrant") subsidiary AES Drax Holdings Limited filed a Form 6-K announcing the information contained in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
             
Documents Executed in Connection with Bond Exchange and Bank Refinancing
             In connection with the Registrant's recently completed bond exchange and bank refinancing (each as described in the Registrant's current report on Form 8-K filed on December 13, 2002), the Registrant entered into the agreements attached to this report as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 99.2 and 99.3 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 7. Exhibits.
             Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 4.1 THE AES CORPORATION as the Company and WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as Trustee --------------------------------- Senior Indenture Dated as of December 13, 2002 ---------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS(1) ----------------- PAGE ---- ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE Section 1.01. Definitions....................................................1 Section 1.02. Other Definitions.............................................19 Section 1.03. Rules of Construction.........................................20 ARTICLE 2 THE NOTES Section 2.01. Forms Generally, Certain Issues Regarding Preconditions for Transfer and Payment......................................20 Section 2.02. Execution and Authentication..................................21 Section 2.03. Amount Unlimited..............................................21 Section 2.04. Denomination and Date of Securities; Payment of Interest......22 Section 2.05. Registrar and Paying Agent; Agents Generally..................22 Section 2.06. Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust...........................23 Section 2.07. Restrictions on Transfer and Exchange.........................23 Section 2.08. Registration, Transfer and Exchange...........................24 Section 2.09. Replacement Notes.............................................27 Section 2.10. Outstanding Notes.............................................27 Section 2.11. Temporary Notes...............................................28 Section 2.12. Cancellation..................................................28 Section 2.13. CUSIP Numbers.................................................29 Section 2.14. Defaulted Interest............................................29 ARTICLE 3 REDEMPTION Section 3.01. Optional Redemption...........................................29 Section 3.02. Mandatory Redemption Upon Receipt of Net Cash Proceeds from Certain Transactions.....................................29 Section 3.03. Additional Mandatory Redemption...............................30 Section 3.04. Notice of Redemption; Partial Redemptions.....................31 Section 3.05. Payment of Notes Called for Redemption........................32 - -------- (1) Note: The Table of Contents shall not for any purposes be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. i
Section 3.06. Exclusion of Certain Notes from Eligibility for Selection for Redemption................................................33 ARTICLE 4 COVENANTS Section 4.01. Payment of Notes..............................................33 Section 4.02. Maintenance of Office or Agency...............................34 Section 4.03. Noteholders' Lists............................................34 Section 4.04. Certificate to Trustee........................................34 Section 4.05. Reports by the Company........................................35 Section 4.06. Limitation on Liens...........................................35 Section 4.07. Equal and Ratable Liens.......................................36 Section 4.08. Restriction on Subsidiary Guarantees..........................36 Section 4.09. Limitation on Sale Leaseback Transactions.....................37 Section 4.10. Transfer of Certain Net Cash Proceeds Received by Subsidiaries..................................................37 ARTICLE 5 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION Section 5.01. When Company May Merge, Etc...................................38 Section 5.02. Successor Substituted.........................................39 ARTICLE 6 DEFAULT AND REMEDIES Section 6.01. Events of Default.............................................39 Section 6.02. Acceleration..................................................40 Section 6.03. Other Remedies................................................42 Section 6.04. Waiver of Past Defaults.......................................42 Section 6.05. Control by Majority...........................................42 Section 6.06. Limitation on Suits...........................................42 Section 6.07. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment..........................43 Section 6.08. Collection Suit by Trustee....................................43 Section 6.09. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim..............................43 Section 6.10. Application of Proceeds.......................................44 Section 6.11. Restoration of Rights and Remedies............................44 Section 6.12. Undertaking for Costs.........................................44 Section 6.13. Rights and Remedies Cumulative................................45 Section 6.14. Delay or Omission Not Waiver..................................45 ii
ARTICLE 7 TRUSTEE Section 7.01. General.......................................................45 Section 7.02. Certain Rights of Trustee.....................................45 Section 7.03. Individual Rights of Trustee..................................47 Section 7.04. Trustee's Disclaimer..........................................47 Section 7.05. Notice of Default.............................................47 Section 7.06. Compensation and Indemnity....................................47 Section 7.07. Replacement of Trustee........................................48 Section 7.08. Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc..............................49 Section 7.09. Money Held in Trust...........................................50 ARTICLE 8 SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE; UNCLAIMED MONEYS Section 8.01. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.......................50 Section 8.02. Application by Trustee of Funds Deposited for Payment of Notes......................................................51 Section 8.03. Repayment of Moneys Held by Paying Agent......................51 Section 8.04. Return of Moneys Held by Trustee and Paying Agent Unclaimed for Two Years.......................................51 Section 8.05. Defeasance and Discharge of Indenture.........................51 Section 8.06. Defeasance of Certain Obligations.............................53 Section 8.07. Reinstatement.................................................54 ARTICLE 9 AMENDMENTS, SUPPLEMENTS AND WAIVERS Section 9.01. Without Consent of Holders....................................54 Section 9.02. With Consent of Holders.......................................55 Section 9.03. Revocation and Effect of Consent..............................56 Section 9.04. Notation on or Exchange of Notes..............................57 Section 9.05. Trustee to Sign Amendments, Etc...............................57 ARTICLE 10 MISCELLANEOUS Section 10.01. Notices......................................................57 Section 10.02. Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent...........59 Section 10.03. Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion................59 Section 10.04. Evidence of Ownership........................................59 Section 10.05. Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent or Registrar..................59 Section 10.06. Payment Date Other Than a Business Day.......................60 Section 10.07. Governing Law................................................60 iii
Section 10.08. No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements................60 Section 10.09. Successors...................................................60 Section 10.10. Duplicate Originals..........................................60 Section 10.11. Separability.................................................60 Section 10.12. Table of Contents, Headings, Etc.............................60 Section 10.13. Incorporators, Stockholders, Officers and Directors of Company Exempt from Individual Liability..................60 Section 10.14. Judgment Currency............................................61 ARTICLE 11 SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS Section 11.01. Security.....................................................61 Section 11.02. Notice of Payment, Discharge or Defeasance...................63 iv
INDENTURE, dated as of December 13, 2002, between The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation, as the Company, and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, a national banking association, as Trustee. RECITALS OF THE COMPANY WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of the Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of up to such Principal amount or amounts as may from time to time be authorized of the Company's 10% Senior Secured Notes Due 2005 (the "Notes") in accordance with the terms of this Indenture; and WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done, and the Company has done all things necessary to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company as hereinafter provided; NOW, THEREFORE THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH For and in consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Notes by the Holders thereof, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders as follows: ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE Section 1.01. Definitions. "Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral" means the "Additional Collateral" referred to in the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Additional Notes" means any notes issued under the Indenture in addition to the Original Notes having the same terms in all respects as the Original Notes except that interest will accrue on the Additional Notes from the most recent date to which interest has been paid on the Notes (other than Additional Notes) or, if no interest has been paid, from the Issue Date. "Adjusted Free Cash Flow" means, as of the end of any fiscal year, an amount equal to (i) the Adjusted Parent Operating Cash Flow for such fiscal year plus (ii) the aggregate amount of Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales received by the Company and permitted to be retained by the Company under the terms of this Indenture during such fiscal year less (iii) the aggregate amount of any Investments (other than Temporary Cash Investments) made in cash by the
Company during such fiscal year, less (iv) the aggregate principal amount of Debt repaid by the Company during such fiscal year, excluding (x) Debt in respect of revolving loans and letters of credit under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities (unless the corresponding revolving credit commitments are permanently reduced in connection with such repayment), (y) Debt prepaid with the Net Cash Proceeds of Asset Sales or Covered Capital Markets Transactions and (z) repayments of Debt financed by incurring other debt less (iv) the aggregate amount for such fiscal year of Corporate Charges plus, to the extent not included in Corporate Charges for such fiscal year, payments made by the Company of dividends and interest on the Tecons and the NY Sells Loan; provided that so long as any amounts or commitments are outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, Adjusted Free Cash Flow shall have, at any time of determination, the meaning set forth at such time of determination in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. "Adjusted Parent Operating Cash Flow" means, for any period, (i) Parent Operating Cash Flow for such period less (ii) the sum of the following expenses (determined without duplication), in each case to the extent paid by the Company during such period and regardless of whether any such amount was accrued during such period: (A) income tax expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries; and (B) corporate overhead expenses. "AES Business" means a Power Supply Business or other business operated or managed (including on a joint basis with others), directly or indirectly, by the Company. "Affiliate" means (i) any Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls the Company (a "Controlling Person"), or (ii) any Person (other than the Company or a Subsidiary) which is controlled by or is under common control with a Controlling Person or (iii) as to any Person (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries), any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person. As used herein, the term "control" means possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. 2
"Agent" means any Registrar, Paying Agent, transfer agent or Authenticating Agent. "Agent Member" means a member of, or a participant in, the Depositary. "Asset Sale" means any sale, lease or other disposition (including any such transaction effected by way of merger or consolidation or any Equity Issuance by the Company's Subsidiaries) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any investment in any Subsidiary or of all the assets of a Subsidiary substantially in its entirety; provided that a disposition of such assets not excluded by the following paragraph during any fiscal year shall not constitute an Asset Sale unless and until (and only to the extent that) the aggregate Net Cash Proceeds from such disposition, when combined with all other such dispositions previously made during such fiscal year, exceeds $10,000,000. The term "Asset Sale" does not include: (i) any disposition or issuance in connection with directors' qualifying shares or investments by foreign nationals mandated by applicable law; (ii) any sale, transfer, conveyance, lease or other disposition of assets governed by Article 5; (iii) any sale of shares of preferred stock of a Subsidiary; (iv) the grant of a security interest by any Person in any assets or shares of Capital Stock securing a borrowing by, or contractual performance obligation of, such Person or any Subsidiary of such Person; (v) a sale-leaseback transaction involving substantially all of the assets of a Power Supply Business where a subsidiary sells the Power Supply Business to a person in exchange for the assumption by that Person of the debt financing the Power Supply Business and the subsidiary leases the Power Supply Business from such Person; (vi) dispositions of contract rights, development rights and resource data made in connection with the initial development of a Power Supply Business, made prior to the commencement of commercial operation of such Power Supply Business; (vii) transactions made in order to enhance the repatriation of cash proceeds in connection with any sale or other disposition in respect of the Capital Stock and/or property of any Subsidiary where such Subsidiary is organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof or any Subsidiary of the type described in Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, to the extent that the proceeds of such sale or other disposition are received by a Person subject in respect of such proceeds to the tax laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof or in order to increase the after-tax proceeds thereof available for immediate distribution; (viii) the sale of Equity Interests in a project in development or under construction the proceeds from which shall be used to fund the cost of development or construction of such project; (ix) (1) a disposition resulting from the bona fide exercise by governmental authority of its claimed or actual power of eminent domain; (2) a realization upon a security interest; (3) any cash payments not otherwise prohibited under this Indenture; (4) any sale, transfer, conveyance, lease or other disposition of an asset pursuant to the terms of any power sales agreement or 3
steam sales agreement or other agreement or contract related to the output or product of, or services rendered by, a Power Supply Business as to which a Subsidiary is the supplying party; (5) any disposition of any Equity Interest in a Power Supply Business pursuant to the terms of a joint venture agreement, shareholders agreement, supply agreement or similar arrangement that requires one shareholder to transfer its interest to another Person upon terms and in circumstances customary for the industry; (6) any disposition of assets subject to a lien transferred to the lien holder or its designee in satisfaction or settlement of the lien holder's claim; (7) sales of inventory in the ordinary course of its business and the granting of any option or other right to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire inventory in the ordinary course of its business; or (8) sales, transfers or other dispositions of assets among the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates or among the Company's Subsidiaries and Affiliates. "Attributable Debt" means the present value (discounted at the rate of 7.375% per annum compounded monthly) of the obligations for rental payments required to be paid during the remaining term of any lease of more than 12 months. "Banc of America Securities Option Agreement" means the option agreement dated December 12, 2002 between Banc of America Securities LLC and the Company. "Board of Directors" means either the Board of Directors of the Company or any committee of such Board duly authorized to act hereunder. "Board Resolution" means one or more resolutions of the Board of Directors, certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary to have been duly adopted and to be in full force and effect on the date of certification, and delivered to the Trustee. "Business Day" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in the City of New York. "BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement" means the Charge and Assignment over Shares dated December 12, 2002 between AES International Holdings II, Ltd., as Chargor, Wilmington Trust Company, as Corporate Trustee and Bruce L. Bisson, as Individual Trustee. "BVI Collateral" means the "Collateral" referred to in the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement. "Capital Commitment" means any contractual commitment or obligation under an equity contribution or other agreement the primary purpose of which is 4
for the Company to provide to an AES Business a portion of the capital required to finance construction projects, the acquisition of additional assets or capital improvements being undertaken by such AES Business. "Capital Markets Debt" means any Debt that is a security (other than syndicated commercial loans) that is eligible for resale in the United States pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act or outside the United States pursuant to Regulation S of the Securities Act or a security (other than syndicated commercial loans) that is sold or subject to resale pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act. "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participants or other equivalents (however designated, whether voting or non-voting) of, or interests in (however designated), the equity of such Person, including, without limitation, all common stock and preferred stock and partnership and joint venture interests of such Person. "Certificated Note" means a Registered Note in individual form without interest coupons. "Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking SA. "Collateral" means the Security Agreement Collateral, the Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral and the BVI Collateral. "Collateral Documents" means the Security Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement, the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement and any other agreement that creates or purports to create a Lien in favor of the Collateral Trustees (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement) for the benefit of the Secured Holders. "Collateral Trust Agreement" means the agreement dated December 12, 2002 among the Grantors referred to therein, as Grantors and the Collateral Trustees. "Collateral Trustees" means Wilmington Trust Company, as Corporate Trustee and Bruce L. Bisson, as Individual Trustee under the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act. "Company" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to Article 5 of this Indenture and thereafter means the successor. 5
"Consolidated Net Assets" means the aggregate amount of assets (less reserves and other deductible items) after deducting current liabilities, as shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries contained in the latest annual report to the stockholders of the Company and prepared in accordance with GAAP. "Consolidated Subsidiary" means, at any date with respect to any Person, any Subsidiary of such Person or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of such Person in its consolidated financial statements if such statements were prepared as of such date. "Corporate Charges" means, for any period, the sum of the following amounts (determined without duplication), in each case to the extent paid by the Company during such period and regardless of whether any such amount was accrued during such period: (A) interest expense for such period; (B) rental expense for such period; and (C) dividends paid on the Company's Redeemable Stock during such period. "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which the corporate trust business of the Trustee shall, at any particular time, be principally administered, which office is, at the date of this Indenture, located at Sixth Street and Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota. "Covered Asset Sale" means any Asset Sale other than (a) any Asset Sale of any of the Capital Stock or assets of any of the Company's Subsidiaries that guarantee the revolving credit facility and/or tranche A term loan facility under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities (the "Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Loan Guarantors"), to the extent that the Net Cash Proceeds of such Asset Sale are applied as set forth in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, to repay amounts under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities that are guaranteed by the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Loan Guarantors or (b) any Asset Sale of any of the Capital Stock or assets of the Company's Subsidiary that guarantees the tranche "C" term loan facility under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities (the "Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor"), to the extent that the Net Cash Proceeds of such Asset Sale are applied as set forth in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, to repay amounts under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities that are guaranteed by the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor; provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, to the extent that the Net Cash Proceeds referred to in clauses (a) and (b) are not applied as set forth therein, such Net Cash Proceeds shall be deemed to be, for all purposes under this Indenture, Net Cash Proceeds from a Covered Asset Sale; 6
provided further that so long as any amounts or commitments are outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, Covered Asset Sale shall have the meaning set forth in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. "Covered Capital Markets Transaction" means (i) an Equity Issuance by the Company; (ii) the incurrence of Capital Markets Debt by the Company; and (iii) the incurrence of Capital Markets Debt by a Subsidiary for the purpose of transferring the Net Cash Proceeds thereof to the Company. "Creditors' Portion" means, in respect of the Net Cash Proceeds of any Covered Asset Sale, the following: (i) with respect to the first $600,000,000 of Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales received after the Original Issue Date, 50% of such Net Cash Proceeds; (ii) with respect to the next $400,000,000 of Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales received after the Original Issue Date (after giving effect to the Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales described in clause (i)), 80% of such Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales; and (iii) with respect to all other Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales received after the Original Issue Date (after giving effect to the Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales described in clauses (i) and (ii)), 60% of such Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales. provided that so long as any amounts or commitments are outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, Creditors' Portion shall have, at any time of determination, the meaning set forth at such time of determination in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. "Debt" of any Person means at any date, without duplication, (i) all Obligations of such Person for borrowed money; (ii) all Obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments; (iii) all Obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business; (iv) all Obligations of such Person as lessee which are capitalized in accordance with GAAP; (v) all Obligations (whether contingent or non-contingent) of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts paid under a letter of credit, surety or performance bond or similar instrument; (vi) all Debt secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Debt is otherwise an obligation of such Person; (vii) all Debt of others Guaranteed by such Person; and (viii) all Redeemable Stock of such Person valued at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid 7
dividends. For purposes hereof, contingent obligations of the type described in clause (v) of this definition with respect to letters of credit not issued under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities shall not be treated as "Debt" hereunder to the extent that such obligations are cash collateralized or to the extent that the issuer of any such letter of credit is entitled to draw under any of the revolving letters of credit or other letters of credit issued under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, which by their terms require that any drawing under such letters of credit be applied only to reimburse such issuer for amounts paid by such issuer under such letter of credit. The obligations of the Company under any Capital Commitment or under any agreement, in the form of indemnity or contingent equity contribution agreement or otherwise, pursuant to which the Company agrees to protect any Person, in whole or in part, from tax liabilities, environmental liabilities, political risks, including currency convertibility and transferability risk and changes in law, or construction cost overruns shall not constitute Debt. "Default" means any Event of Default as defined in Section 6.01 and any event that is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default. "Depositary" means the depositary of each Global Note, which initially will be DTC or, as to an Offshore Global Note, a common depositary for Euroclear and Clearstream unless and until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder. "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation. "DTC Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit C. "Equity Interest" means, with respect to any Person, shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or other acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or other acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including, without limitation, partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are authorized or otherwise existing on any date of determination. "Equity Issuance" means, in respect of any Person, the issuance or sale of Equity Interests of such Person other than any such issuance to directors, officers 8
or employees pursuant to employee benefit plans in the ordinary course of business (including by way of exercise of stock option). "Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., and its successors or assigns, as operator of the Euroclear system. "Euro-Dollar Business Day" means any Business Day on which commercial banks are open for international business (including dealings in dollar deposits) in London. "Excess Asset Sale Proceeds" means the product of (a) the Creditors' Portion of all Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales received by the Company in excess of the first $600 million of Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales received by the Company, multiplied by (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is the total aggregate Principal amount of Notes outstanding on such date, and the denominator of which is the sum of (x) the aggregate Principal amount of Notes outstanding on such date, plus (y) the aggregate Senior Secured Lenders' Exposure on such date; provided that, if on the date or dates on which the first $600 million of Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales are received, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities have been repaid in full and all commitments thereunder have been terminated, then the phrase "in excess of the first $600 million of Net Cash Proceeds of Covered Asset Sales received by the Company" shall immediately and automatically be deleted from clause (a) of this definition. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Final Maturity Date" means December 12, 2005; provided, however, that if, prior to July 15, 2005, the Company's 4.50% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures have not been refinanced to mature on a date after December 12, 2005, then Final Maturity Date means July 15, 2005; provided further that if the Final Maturity Date occurs on a day that is not a Euro-Dollar Business Day, the Final Maturity Date shall occur on the next succeeding Euro-Dollar Business Day unless such Euro-Dollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case the Final Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Euro-Dollar Business Day. "Funded Debt" means indebtedness for borrowed money having a maturity of, or by its terms extendible or renewable for, a period of more than 12 months after the determination of the amount thereof. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent (except for changes concurred in by the 9
Company's independent public accountants) with the most recent audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries delivered to the Trustee; provided that, if the Company notifies the Trustee that the Company wishes to amend any covenant in Article 3 or 4 to eliminate the effect of any change in generally accepted accounting principles on the operation of such covenant, then the Company's compliance with such covenant shall be determined on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles in effect immediately before the relevant change in generally accepted accounting principles became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such covenant is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Company and the required Noteholders. "Global Note" means a Registered Note in global form without interest coupons. "Guarantee" by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such Person (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to take-or-pay or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (ii) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part); provided that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business or, for the avoidance of doubt, obligations of the Company to provide capital to an AES Business under a Capital Commitment. The term "Guarantee" used as a verb has a corresponding meaning. "Holder" or "Noteholder" means the registered holder of any Note. "Indenture" means this Indenture as originally executed and delivered or as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time by one or more indentures supplemental to this Indenture entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture. "Interest Payment Date" means each June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing with June 15, 2003. "Investment" means any investment in any Person, whether by means of share purchase, capital contribution, loan, Guarantee, time deposit or otherwise (but not including any demand deposit). 10
"Lien" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement that has the practical effect of creating a security interest, in respect of such asset. For the purposes of this Indenture, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset which it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset. "Make-Whole Amount" means, the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the date of such redemption of each dollar of Principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the redemption date) that would have been payable in respect of such dollar if such prepayment had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semi-annual basis, such Principal and interest at the Reinvestment Rate (determined on the Business Day preceding the date of such redemption) from the respective dates on which such Principal and interest would have been payable if such payment had not been made, over (ii) the aggregate Principal amount of the Notes being redeemed. "Material Subsidiary" of any Person means, as of any date, any Subsidiary of which such Person's proportionate share of such Subsidiary's total assets (after intercompany eliminations) exceeds 15 percent of the total assets of such Person on a consolidated basis. "Minimum Liquidity Level" means as of the end of any fiscal year, an amount equal to (i) the aggregate amount of cash and Temporary Cash Investments of the Company on such date and (ii) the aggregate amount of the unused revolving credit loan commitments available to be drawn under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities on such date. "Net Cash Proceeds" means (a) with respect to any Asset Sale, cash payments received (including any cash payments received by way of deferred payment of principal pursuant to a note or installment receivable or otherwise, but only as and when received (including any cash received upon sale or disposition of such note or receivable), excluding any other consideration received in the form of assumption by the acquiring Person of Debt or other obligations relating to the property disposed of in such Asset Sale or received in any other noncash form) therefrom, in each case, net of all legal, title and recording tax expenses, commissions and other fees and expenses incurred (including, without limitation, consent and waiver fees and any applicable premiums, earn-out or working interest payments or payments in lieu or in termination thereof), and all federal, state, provincial, foreign and local taxes required to be accrued as a liability under GAAP (i) as a consequence of such Asset Sale, (ii) as a result of the repayment of any Debt in any jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction where the property 11
disposed of was located or (iii) as a result of any repatriation to the United States of any proceeds of such Asset Sale, and in each case net of a reasonable reserve for the after tax-cost of any indemnification payments (fixed and contingent) attributable to seller's indemnities to the purchaser undertaken by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with such Asset Sale (but excluding any payments, which by the terms of the indemnities will not, under any circumstances, be made during the term of the Notes), and net of all payments made on any debt which is secured by such property, in accordance with the terms of any lien upon or with respect to such property or which must by its terms or by applicable law be repaid out of the proceeds from such Asset Sale, and net of all distributions and other payments made to minority interest holders in Subsidiaries or joint ventures as a result of such Asset Sale; provided that, so long as any amounts or commitments are outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the Net Cash Proceeds with respect to any Asset Sale shall mean the greater of (x) the amount determined pursuant to the foregoing definition and (y) the amount determined pursuant to the definition of Net Cash Proceeds set forth at such time of determination in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, and (b) with respect to any Covered Capital Markets Transaction, the aggregate amount of cash received from time to time on or after the Original Issue Date (whether as initial consideration or through payment or disposition of deferred consideration) by the Company and its Subsidiaries from such Covered Capital Markets Transaction after deducting therefrom (without duplication) (i) brokerage commissions, underwriting fees and discounts, legal fees, finder's fees and other similar fees and commissions, (ii) in the case of a Covered Capital Markets Transaction in the form of incurrence of Debt by a Subsidiary, the amount of any Debt of such Subsidiary that, by the terms of the agreement or instrument governing such Debt, is required to be repaid with all or a portion of the proceeds of such capital markets transaction, and (iii) any portion of the proceeds of such Covered Capital Markets Transaction required to prepay or collateralize interest, dividends or fees payable in respect of such Covered Capital Markets Transaction; provided that, with respect to both clause (a) and (b) above, for purposes of determining Net Cash Proceeds received by a Subsidiary required to be applied pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Indenture, only that portion of such Net Cash Proceeds received by the Company from such Subsidiary in accordance with Section 4.10 shall be included. "Notes" means any of the notes, as defined in the first paragraph of the recitals hereof, that are authenticated and delivered under this Indenture. "Noteholders' Ratable Share" means, in connection with the application of Adjusted Free Cash Flow pursuant to 3.02(b), a percentage equal to a fraction, the numerator of which is the aggregate Principal amount of Notes outstanding on 12
such date, and the denominator of which is the sum of (x) the aggregate Principal amount of Notes outstanding on such date, plus (y) the aggregate Senior Secured Lenders' Exposure on such date. "NY SELLS Loan" means the $300 million secured equity-linked loan due in 2004 issued by the Company's Consolidated Subsidiary, AES New York Funding LLC. "Obligation" means, with respect to any Person, any payment, performance or other obligation of such Person of any kind, including, without limitation, any liability of such Person on any claim, whether or not the right of any creditor to payment in respect of such claim is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured, and whether or not such claim is discharged, stayed or otherwise affected by any proceeding referred to in Section 6.01(f) or (g) of this Indenture. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Obligations of the Company under the Indenture include (a) the obligation to pay principal, interest, charges, expenses, fees, attorneys' fees and disbursements, indemnities and other amounts payable by the Company under the Indenture and (b) the obligation of the Company to reimburse any amount in respect of any of the foregoing that the Trustee, in its sole discretion, may elect to pay or advance on behalf of the Company. "Officer" means, with respect to the Company, the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president or chief executive officer, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer, or the secretary or any assistant secretary. "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed in the name of the Company (i) by the chairman of the board of directors, the president or chief executive officer or a vice president and (ii) by the chief financial officer, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer, or the secretary or any assistant secretary, complying with Section 10.03 and delivered to the Trustee. Each such certificate shall include (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Indenture) the statements provided in Section 10.03. "Offshore Global Note" means a Global Note representing Notes issued and sold pursuant to Regulation S. "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion signed by legal counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, satisfactory to the Trustee and complying with Section 10.03. Each such opinion shall include the statements provided in Section 10.03, if and to the extent required thereby. 13
"Ordinary Course Cash Needs" means for any Subsidiary, the cash working capital and other needs of such Subsidiary and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business (net of other sources of funds available or expected to be available to it from any source other than from the Company and its Subsidiaries), determined in good faith by the Company consistent in all material respects with past practice (subject to appropriate adjustment to the extent past practice has been modified to reflect changes in the nature of the business and operations of the Subsidiaries), including reasonably anticipated needs for repaying Debt and other obligations and making investments in its business not inconsistent in any material respect with this Indenture, provided that in determining the ordinary course needs of any Subsidiary, the Company may take into account its ordinary course of business cash management practices whereby amounts that would otherwise constitute cash balances of one or more Subsidiaries are managed by being concentrated in a single Subsidiary. "Original Issue Date" means the date on which the Original Notes are first issued under the Indenture. "Original Notes" means the Notes issued on the Original Issue Date and any Notes issued in replacement thereof. "Parent Operating Cash Flow" means, for any period, the sum of the following amounts (determined without duplication), but only to the extent received in cash by the Company from a Person during such period: (a) dividends paid to the Company by the Company's Subsidiaries during such period; (b) consulting and management fees paid to the Company for such period; (c) tax sharing payments made to the Company during such period; (d) interest and other distributions paid during such period with respect to cash and other Temporary Cash Investments other than amounts on deposit to secure contingent exposure under letters of credit issued under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; and (e) other cash payments made to the Company by the Company's Subsidiaries other than (i) returns of invested capital; (ii) payments of the principal of Debt of any such Subsidiary to the Company and (iii) payments in an amount equal to the aggregate amount released from debt service reserve accounts upon the issuance of letters of credit for the benefit of the beneficiaries of such accounts; 14
provided that Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and Covered Capital Markets Transactions received by the Company shall not be included in Parent Operating Cash Flow for any period. "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability company, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof. "Power Supply Business" means an electric power or thermal energy generation or cogeneration facility or related facilities, or an electric power transmission, distribution, fuel supply and fuel transportation facilities, or any combination thereof (all subject to relevant security, if any, under related project financing arrangements), together with its or their related power supply, thermal energy and fuel contracts as well as other contractual arrangements with customers, suppliers and contractors. "Principal" of a Note means the principal amount of, and, unless the context indicates otherwise, includes any premium payable on, the Note. "Principal Property" means any building, structure or other facility (together with the land on which it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof) used primarily for manufacturing, processing, research, warehousing or distribution owned or leased by the Company and having a net book value in excess of 2% of Consolidated Net Assets, other than any such building, structure or other facility or portion thereof which is a pollution control facility financed by state or local governmental obligations or which the principal executive officer, president and principal financial officer of the Company determine in good faith is not of material importance to the total business conducted or assets owned by the Company and its Subsidiaries as an entirety. "Redeemable Stock" means any class or series of Capital Stock of any Person that by its terms or otherwise is (i) required to be redeemed prior to the first anniversary of the Final Maturity Date, (ii) redeemable at the option of the holder of such class or series of Capital Stock at any time prior to the first anniversary of the Final Maturity Date or (iii) convertible into or exchangeable for (unless solely at the option of such person) Capital Stock referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above or Debt having a scheduled maturity prior to the first anniversary of the Final Maturity Date; provided that any Capital Stock that would not constitute Redeemable Stock but for provisions thereof giving holders thereof the right to require such person to repurchase or redeem such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of an "asset sale" or a "change of control" occurring prior to the first anniversary of the Final Maturity Date shall not constitute Redeemable Stock if such Capital Stock specifically provides that such person will not repurchase or 15
redeem any such Capital Stock pursuant to such provisions unless such repurchase or redemption is permitted under the terms of this Indenture. "Registered Note" means any Note registered on the Note Register (as defined in Section 2.05). "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date means the fifteenth calendar day preceding such Interest Payment Date. "Regulation S" means Regulation S under the Securities Act. "Regulation S Certificate" means a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto. "Reinvestment Rate" means 1.00 (one percent) plus the arithmetic mean of the yields under the respective headings "This Week" and "Last Week" published in the Statistical Release under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the date on which the Notes are first redeemable at par. If no maturity exactly corresponds to such maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to such maturity shall be calculated pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence and the Reinvestment Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight-line basis, rounding in each of such relevant periods to the nearest month. For the purpose of calculating the Reinvestment Rate, the most recent Statistical Release published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount shall be used. "Responsible Officer" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any senior trust officer, any vice president, any trust officer, any assistant trust officer, or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "Restricted Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit B hereto. "Restricted Period" means the relevant 40 day distribution compliance period as defined in Regulation S. "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act. "Rule 144A Certificate" means a written certification addressed to the Company and the Trustee to the effect that the Person making such certification (x) is acquiring such Note (or beneficial interest) for its own account or one or more accounts with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and each such account is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning 16
of Rule 144A, (y) is aware that the transfer to it or exchange, as applicable, is being made in reliance upon the exemption from the provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act provided by Rule 144A and (z) acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as it has requested pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) or has determined not to request such information. "Secured Holders" has the meaning set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Security Agreement Collateral" means the "Collateral" referred to in the Security Agreement. "Security Agreement" means the security agreement dated December12, 2002 by the Company, the other Persons listed on the signature page thereof and the Additional Grantors (as defined therein), as Grantors, to Wilmington Trust Company, as Corporate Trustee and Bruce L. Bisson, as Individual Trustee, under the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Senior Secured Credit Facilities" means the Amended and Restated Credit and Reimbursement Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 between the Company, as Borrower, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein), as Subsidiary Guarantors, Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent, Salomon Smith Barney, Inc., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner, Bank of America, N.A., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner and as Syndication Agent, Union Bank of California, N.A., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner and as Syndication Agent, the Banks listed therein, the Revolving Banks (as defined therein) and the Drax LOC Fronting Banks (as defined therein) listed therein and any related notes, guarantees, letters of credit, collateral documents, rate protection or hedging arrangement, instruments and agreements executed in connection therewith, and in each case, as amended, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced from time to time, including any agreement (i) extending or shortening the maturity of any indebtedness incurred thereunder or contemplated thereby; (ii) adding or deleting borrowers or guarantors thereunder; or (iii) otherwise altering the terms and conditions thereof. "Senior Secured Credit Facility Obligations" means all Obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, including, without limitation, interest accruing subsequent to the filing of, or which would have accrued but for the filing of, a petition for bankruptcy, whether or not such interest is an allowable claim in such bankruptcy proceeding. "Senior Secured Lenders' Exposure" means on any date the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of the loans outstanding under the Senior Secured 17
Credit Facilities, plus (ii) the aggregate amount of unused commitments under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities on such date, which amounts include without limitation the aggregate amount of (x) available amounts and (y) drawn but unpaid amounts, with respect to the letters of credit to be issued under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. "Specified Accredited Investors" means Paul T. Hanrahan, an executive officer of the Company, and the Persimmon Trust, a charitable trust established by Roger W. Sant, a director of the Company, each of which has certified that he or it is an accredited investor as defined in Rule 501 under the Securities Act. "Statistical Release" means the statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded U.S. government securities adjusted to constant maturities or, if such statistical release is not published at the time of any determination under the Indenture, then such other reasonably comparable index which shall be designated by the Company. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity of which a majority of the Capital Stock or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person. "Tax Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit E hereto. "Tecons" means Term Convertible Preferred Securities issued by the Company's wholly owned special purpose business trusts. "Temporary Cash Investment" means any Investment (having a maturity of not greater than 60 days from the date of issuance thereof) in (A)(i) direct obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, or obligations guaranteed by the United States or any agency thereof; (ii) commercial paper rated at least the Minimum CP Rating by any two of Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Fitch IBCA, Inc. and Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co., provided that one of such two Minimum CP Ratings is by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services or Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; (iii) time deposits with, including certificates of deposit issued by, any office located in the United States of any bank or trust company which is organized or licensed under the laws of the United States or any state thereof and has capital, surplus and undivided profits aggregating at least $500,000,000; (iv) medium term notes, auction rate preferred stock, asset backed securities, bonds, notes and letter of credit supported instruments, issued by any entity organized under the laws of the United States, or any state or municipality of the United States and rated in any of the three highest rated categories by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services or 18
Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; (v) repurchase agreements with respect to securities described in clause (i) above entered into with an office of a bank or trust company meeting the criteria specified in clause (iii) above; (vi) Euro-Dollar certificates of deposit issued by any bank or trust company which has capital and unimpaired surplus of not less than $500,000,000 or (vii) with respect to a Subsidiary, any category of investment designated as permissible investments under such Subsidiary's loan documentation; provided that in each case (except clause (vii)) that such Investment matures within fifteen months from the date of acquisition thereof by the Company or a Subsidiary and (B) registered investment companies that are "money market funds" within the meaning of Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940. "Trustee" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 and thereafter means such successor. "U.S. Global Note" means a Global Note that bears the Restricted Legend representing Notes issued and sold pursuant to Rule 144A. "U.S. Government Obligations" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt; provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt. Section 1.02. Other Definitions. Each of the following terms is defined in the section set forth opposite such term: Term Section ---- ------- Authenticating Agent 2.02 Event of Default 6.01 Judgment Currency 10.14 Note Register 2.05 Paying Agent 2.05 Registrar 2.05 Required Currency 10.14 special record date 2.14 19
Section 1.03. Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires: (i) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP; (ii) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular; (iii) "herein," "hereof" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; (iv) all references to Sections or Articles refer to Sections or Articles of this Indenture unless otherwise indicated; and (v) use of masculine, feminine or neuter pronouns should not be deemed a limitation, and the use of any such pronouns should be construed to include, where appropriate, the other pronouns. ARTICLE 2 THE NOTES Section 2.01. Forms Generally, Certain Issues Regarding Preconditions for Transfer and Payment. (a) Each Note and the related Trustee's certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A. The terms and provisions contained in the form of the Notes annexed as Exhibit A constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the Indenture. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, rules of or agreements with national securities exchanges to which the Company is subject, or usage. (b) Each Note will bear the Tax Legend and except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) each Note will bear the Restricted Legend. (c) If the Company determines (upon the advice of counsel and such other certifications and evidence as the Company may reasonably require) that any Note is eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or a successor provision) and that the Restricted Legend is no longer necessary or appropriate in order to ensure that subsequent transfers of the Note (or a beneficial interest therein) are effected in compliance with the Securities Act, the Company may instruct the Trustee to cancel the Note and issue to the Holder 20
thereof (or to its transferee) a new Note of like tenor and amount, registered in the name of the Holder thereof (or its transferee), that does not bear the Restricted Legend, and the Trustee will comply with such instruction. (d) By its acceptance of any Note bearing the Restricted Legend (or any beneficial interest in such a Note), each Holder thereof and each owner of a beneficial interest therein acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such Note (and any such beneficial interest) set forth in the Indenture and in the Restricted Legend and agrees that it will transfer such Note (and any such beneficial interest) only in accordance with the Indenture and such legend. Section 2.02. Execution and Authentication. Two Officers shall execute the Notes for the Company by facsimile or manual signature in the name and on behalf of the Company. If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time the Note is authenticated, the Note shall nevertheless be valid. The Trustee, at the expense of the Company, may appoint an authenticating agent (the "Authenticating Agent") to authenticate Notes. The Authenticating Agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such Authenticating Agent. A Note shall not be valid until the Trustee or Authenticating Agent manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Note. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture. In authenticating the Notes, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive prior to the first authentication of any Notes and (subject to Article 7) shall be fully protected in relying upon, unless and until such documents have been superseded or revoked: (a) any Board Resolution by or pursuant to which the form and terms of the Notes were established; (b) an Officers' Certificate setting forth the form and terms of the Notes, stating that the form and terms of the Notes have been, or will be when established in accordance with such procedures as shall be referred to therein, established in compliance with this Indenture; and (c) an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee. Section 2.03. Amount Unlimited. The aggregate principal amount of Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Company may issue Additional Notes under the Indenture from time to time. 21
Section 2.04. Denomination and Date of Securities; Payment of Interest. The Notes shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. If as a result of the exchange or redemption in part of any Notes issued hereunder any Holder is entitled to receive Notes in an aggregate principal amount that is not an integral multiple of $1,000, the principal amount of such Holder's notes shall be reduced to the nearest $1,000 and such Holder shall receive a substitute cash payment equal to the principal amount by which that Holder's Notes are reduced. The Notes shall be numbered, lettered or otherwise distinguished in such manner or in accordance with such plan as the Officers of the Company executing the same may determine, as evidenced by their execution thereof. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall bear interest from the date of the Note, and such interest and shall be payable on the Interest Payment Date. The person in whose name any Note is registered at the close of business on any Regular Record Date with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be entitled to receive the interest, if any, payable on such Interest Payment Date notwithstanding any transfer or exchange of such Note subsequent to the Regular Record Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, except if and to the extent the Company shall default in the payment of the interest due on such Interest Payment Date for such series, in which case the provisions of Section 2.14 shall apply. Section 2.05. Registrar and Paying Agent; Agents Generally. The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration, registration of transfer or for exchange (the "Registrar") and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment (the "Paying Agent"), which shall be in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York. The Company shall cause the Registrar to keep a register of the Notes and of their registration, transfer and exchange (the "Note Register"). The Company may have one or more additional Paying Agents or transfer agents with respect to the Notes. The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Agent not a party to this Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the name and address of any Agent and any change in the name or address of an Agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company may remove any Agent upon written notice to such Agent and the Trustee; provided that no such removal shall become effective until (i) the acceptance of an appointment by a successor Agent to such Agent as evidenced by an appropriate agency agreement entered into by the Company and such successor Agent and 22
delivered to the Trustee or (ii) notification to the Trustee that the Trustee shall serve as such Agent until the appointment of a successor Agent in accordance with clause (i) of this proviso. The Company or any Affiliate of the Company may act as Paying Agent or Registrar; provided that neither the Company nor an Affiliate of the Company shall act as Paying Agent in connection with the defeasance of the Notes or the discharge of this Indenture under Article 8. The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Paying Agent and Authenticating Agent. If, at any time, the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Registrar shall make available to the Trustee ten days prior to each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may reasonably request the names and addresses of the Holders as they appear in the Note Register. Section 2.06. Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust. Not later than 10:00 a.m. New York City time on each due date of any Principal or interest on any Notes, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent money in immediately available funds sufficient to pay such Principal or interest. The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that such Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders of such Notes or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of Principal of and interest on such Notes and shall promptly notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and account for any funds disbursed, and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any payment default, upon written request to a Paying Agent, require such Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money so paid over to the Trustee. If the Company or any Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it will, on or before each due date of any Principal of or interest on the Notes, segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders thereof a sum of money sufficient to pay such Principal or interest so becoming due until such sum of money shall be paid to such Holders or otherwise disposed of as provided in this Indenture, and will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of its action or failure to act as required by this Section. Section 2.07. Restrictions on Transfer and Exchange. (a) The transfer or exchange of any Note (or a beneficial interest therein) may only be made in accordance with this Section, Section 2.08 and in the case of a Global Note (or a beneficial interest therein), the applicable rules and procedures of the Depositary. The Trustee shall refuse to register any requested transfer or exchange that does not comply with the preceding sentence. 23
(b) The transfer or exchange of any Note (or a beneficial interest therein) that bears the Restricted Legend may only be made in compliance with the provisions of the Restricted Legend. (c) The transfer or exchange of a beneficial interest in an Offshore Global Note or a Certificated Note for a beneficial interest in a U.S. Global Note may only be made upon receipt by the Trustee of a duly completed Rule 144A Certificate. (d) The transfer or exchange of a beneficial interest in a U.S. Global Note or a Certificated Note for a beneficial interest in an Offshore Global Note may only be made upon receipt by the Trustee of a duly completed Regulation S Certificate. (e) During the Restricted Period, beneficial interests in an Offshore Global Note may be held through the Depositary only through Euroclear and Clearstream, and their respective direct and indirect participants. (f) The Trustee will retain copies of all certificates, opinions and other documents received in connection with the transfer or exchange of a Note (or a beneficial interest therein), and the Company will have the right to inspect and make copies thereof at any reasonable time upon written notice to the Trustee. Section 2.08. Registration, Transfer and Exchange. (a) Registered Global Form Only. The Notes will be issued in registered form only, without coupons, and the Company shall cause the Trustee to maintain a register (the "Register") of the Notes, for registering the record ownership of the Notes by the Holders and transfers and exchanges of the Notes. The Notes will be issued in global form only except for Notes to be issued (i) under the circumstances described in clause (b)(iv) of this Section and (ii) the Notes to be issued to the Specified Accredited Investors, which shall be issued as Certificated Notes. (b) Global Notes. (i) Each Global Note will be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and, so long as DTC is serving as the Depositary thereof, will bear the DTC Legend. (ii) Each Global Note will be delivered to the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary. Transfers of a Global Note (but not a beneficial interest therein) will be limited to transfers thereof in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees, except (A) as set forth in paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section and (B) transfers of portions thereof in the form of Certificated Notes may be made upon request of an Agent Member (for itself or on behalf of a beneficial owner) by written notice given to the Trustee by or on behalf of 24
the Depositary in accordance with customary procedures of the Depositary and in the compliance with this Section and Section 2.06. (iii) Agent Members will have no rights under the Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by the Depositary, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and Holder of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Depositary or its nominee may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any person (including any Agent Member and any Person that holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through an Agent Member) to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under the Indenture or the Notes, and nothing herein will impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any security. (iv) If (x) the Depositary (1) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for a Global Note and a successor depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of the notice or (2) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, (y) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Trustee has received a request from the Depositary, or (z) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Certificated Notes, the Trustee will promptly exchange each beneficial interest in the Global Note for one or more Certificated Notes in authorized denominations having an equal aggregate principal amount registered in the name of the owner of such beneficial interest, as identified to the Trustee by the Depositary, and thereupon the Global Note will be deemed canceled. Each Certificated Note issued in exchange therefor will bear the Restricted Legend. (c) Certificated Notes. Each Certificated Note will be registered in the name of the Holder thereof. (d) Transfers and Exchanges Generally. A Holder may transfer a Note (or a beneficial interest therein) to another Person or exchange a Note (or a beneficial interest therein) for another Note or Notes of any authorized denomination by presenting to the Trustee a written request therefor stating the name of the proposed transferee or requesting such an exchange, accompanied by any certification, opinion or other document required by Section 2.07. The Trustee will promptly register any such transfer or exchange that meets the requirements of this Section by noting the same in the register maintained by the Trustee for the purpose; provided that (x) no transfer or exchange will be effective until the transfer or exchange is registered in such register and (y) the Trustee will not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Note for a 25
period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed, (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except, in the case of a partial redemption, that portion of any such Note not being redeemed, or (iii) if a redemption is to occur after a Regular Record Date but on or before the corresponding Interest Payment Date, to register the transfer of or exchange any Note on or after such Regular Record Date and before the date of redemption. Prior to the registration of any transfer, the Company, the Trustee and their agents will treat the person in whose name the Note is registered as the owner and Holder thereof for all purposes (whether or not the Note is overdue), and will not be affected by notice to the contrary. From time to time the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate replacement or substitute Notes as necessary in order to permit the registration of a transfer or exchange in accordance with this Section. No service charge will be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of any Note, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or other similar governmental charge payable upon exchange pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section). (e) Procedures to Be Followed by the Trustee. (i) Global Note to Global Note. If a beneficial interest in a Global Note is transferred or exchanged for a beneficial interest in another Global Note, the Trustee will (x) record a decrease in the principal amount of the Global Note being transferred or exchanged equal to the principal amount of such transfer or exchange and (y) record a like increase in the principal amount of the other Global Note. Any beneficial interest in one Global Note that is transferred to a Person who takes delivery in the form of an interest in another Global Note, or exchanged for an interest in another Global Note, will, upon transfer or exchange, cease to be an interest in such Global Note and become an interest in the other Global Note and, accordingly, will thereafter be subject to all transfer and exchange restrictions, if any, and other procedures applicable to beneficial interests in such other Global Note for as long as it remains such an interest. (ii) Certificated Note to Global Note. If a Certificated Note is transferred or exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Global Note, the Trustee will (x) cancel such Certificated Note, (y) record an increase in the principal amount of such Global Note equal to the principal amount of such transfer or exchange and (z) in the event that such transfer or exchange involves less than the entire principal amount of the canceled Certificated Note, deliver to the Holder thereof one or more new Certificated Notes in authorized denominations having an aggregate principal amount equal to the untransferred or unexchanged portion of the canceled Certificated Note, registered in the name of the Holder thereof. 26
(iii) Certificated Note to Certificated Note. If a Certificated Note is transferred or exchanged for another Certificated Note, the Trustee will (x) cancel the Certificated Note being transferred or exchanged, (y) deliver one or more new Certificated Notes in authorized denominations having an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such transfer or exchange to the transferee (in the case of a transfer) or the Holder of the canceled Certificated Note (in the case of an exchange), registered in the name of such transferee or Holder, as applicable, and (z) if such transfer or exchange involves less than the entire principal amount of the canceled Certificated Note, will deliver to the Holder thereof one or more new Certificated Notes in authorized denominations having an aggregate principal amount equal to the untransferred or unexchanged portion of the canceled Certificated Note, registered in the name of the Holder thereof. Section 2.09. Replacement Notes. If a defaced or mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or if a Holder claims that its Note has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Note of such tenor and principal amount bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. If required by the Trustee or the Company, an indemnity bond must be furnished that is sufficient in the judgment of both the Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Trustee and any Agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced. The Company may charge such Holder for its expenses and the expenses of the Trustee (including without limitation attorneys' fees and expenses) in replacing a Note. In case any such mutilated, defaced, lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken Note has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may pay such Note instead of issuing a new Note in replacement thereof. Every replacement Note is an additional obligation of the Company and shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. To the extent permitted by law, the foregoing provisions of this Section are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Notes. Section 2.10. Outstanding Notes. Notes outstanding at any time are all Notes that have been authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section as not outstanding. If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.09, it ceases to be outstanding unless and until the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to them that the replaced Note is held by a holder in due course. 27
If the Paying Agent (other than the Company or an Affiliate of the Company) holds on the maturity date or any redemption date or date for repurchase of the Notes money sufficient to pay Notes payable or to be redeemed or repurchased on that date, then on and after that date such Notes cease to be outstanding and interest on them shall cease to accrue. A Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or one of its Affiliates holds such Note, provided, however, that, in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the outstanding Notes have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Notes owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Notes as to which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has received written notice to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Any Notes so owned which are pledged by the Company, or by any Affiliate of the Company, as security for loans or other obligations, otherwise than to another such Affiliate of the Company, shall be deemed to be outstanding, if the pledgee is entitled pursuant to the terms of its pledge agreement and is free to exercise in its or his discretion the right to vote such Notes, uncontrolled by the Company or by any such Affiliate. Section 2.11. Temporary Notes. Until definitive Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Notes. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of definitive Notes but may have insertions, substitutions, omissions and other variations determined to be appropriate by the Officers executing the temporary Notes, as evidenced by their execution of such temporary Notes. If temporary Notes are issued, the Company will cause definitive Notes to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Notes, the temporary Notes shall be exchangeable for definitive Notes of such tenor upon surrender of such temporary Notes at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 4.02, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Notes the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Notes of such tenor and authorized denominations. Until so exchanged, the temporary Notes shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Notes. Section 2.12. Cancellation. The Company at any time may deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Notes previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Notes previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold. The Registrar, any transfer agent and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes 28
surrendered to them for transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee shall retain, cancel and destroy all Notes surrendered for transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation and shall deliver a certificate of destruction to the Company. The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes it has paid in full or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation. Section 2.13. CUSIP Numbers. The Company in issuing the Notes may use "CUSIP" and "CINS" numbers, and the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers or CINS numbers, as the case may be, in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders and no representation shall be made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption or exchange. Section 2.14. Defaulted Interest. If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay, or shall deposit with the Paying Agent money in immediately available funds sufficient to pay, the defaulted interest plus (to the extent lawful) any interest payable on the defaulted interest to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, which shall mean the 15th day next preceding the date fixed by the Company for the payment of defaulted interest, whether or not such day is a Business Day. At least 15 days before such special record date, the Company shall mail to each Holder and to the Trustee a notice that states the special record date, the payment date and the amount of defaulted interest to be paid. ARTICLE 3 REDEMPTION Section 3.01. Optional Redemption. At any time and from time to time, the Company may redeem the Notes in whole or in part at a redemption price equal to (a) the sum of (i) 100% of the Principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date plus (ii) a Make-Whole Amount, if any, if redeemed on or prior to December 15, 2004; or (b) 100% of the Principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, if redeemed after December 15, 2004; provided that if the date fixed for redemption is June 15 or December 15, then the interest payable on such date shall be paid to the holder of record on the next preceding June 15 or December 15. Section 3.02. Mandatory Redemption Upon Receipt of Net Cash Proceeds from Certain Transactions. (a) Within 90 days of the Company's receipt of any Excess Asset Sale Proceeds, the Company will use such Excess Asset Sale Proceeds to redeem the Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption; provided that the Company shall not be obligated to redeem any Notes pursuant to this Section 3.02(a) unless the Excess Asset Sale Proceeds exceeds $10 million 29
and upon completion of any redemption pursuant to this Section 3.02(a), the Excess Asset Sale Proceeds under this Indenture will be reset to zero. (b) Within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, so long as the Minimum Liquidity Level on the last day of such fiscal year is greater than $400 million, the Company will redeem, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption, an aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes equal to the lesser of the Noteholders' Ratable Share of (A) 75% of Adjusted Free Cash Flow for such fiscal year and (B) the maximum amount of Adjusted Free Cash Flow for such fiscal year so that the Minimum Liquidity Level on the last day of such fiscal year after giving effect to any mandatory redemption required to be made pursuant to this Section 3.02(b) and any prepayment made to the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities with a portion of the Company's Adjusted Free Cash Flow would not be less than $400 million; provided that the Company shall not be obligated to redeem the Notes pursuant to this Section 3.02(b) unless the Adjusted Free Cash Flow for such fiscal year (together with any carryover amount described in the next sentence) exceeds $10 million. To the extent that the Company is not required to redeem any Notes as a result of the immediately preceding proviso, such amount of Notes that otherwise would have been redeemed shall be carried forward and on the next date on which the Company is required to redeem any Notes pursuant to this Section 3.02(b), the amount of Notes required to be redeemed by the Company shall be increased by such amount. (c) Within 90 days after the Company's receipt of any Net Cash Proceeds of a Covered Capital Markets Transaction, the Company will use 50% of such Net Cash Proceeds to redeem the Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption; provided that the Company shall not be required to redeem the Notes as set forth in this Section 3.02(c) (i) unless on the date that the Covered Capital Markets Transaction is consummated, the amount outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities is zero and all commitments to extend credit thereunder have been terminated and (ii) unless the Net Cash Proceeds from all Covered Capital Markets Transactions subject to this Section 3.02(c) exceed $10 million. Upon completion of any redemption of the Notes pursuant to this Section 3.02(c), the Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Capital Markets Transactions under this Indenture will be reset to zero. Section 3.03. Additional Mandatory Redemption. On November 25, 2004, the Company shall redeem, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, Notes with an aggregate principal amount equal to (i) 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes issued on the Original Issue Date less (ii) the 30
aggregate principal amount of Notes redeemed on or prior to November 25, 2004 pursuant to Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of this Indenture. Section 3.04. Notice of Redemption; Partial Redemptions. Notice of redemption to the Holders of the Notes to be redeemed as a whole or in part shall be given by mailing notice of such redemption by first class mail, postage prepaid, at least 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption to such Holders of the Notes at their last addresses as they shall appear upon the Note Register. Any notice which is mailed or published in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives the notice. Failure to give notice by mail, or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Note designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Note. The notice of redemption to each such Holder shall specify the principal amount of each Note held by such Holder to be redeemed, the CUSIP numbers of the Notes to be redeemed, the date fixed for redemption, the redemption price, the place or places of payment, that payment will be made upon presentation and surrender of such Notes, that interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in such notice and that on and after said date interest thereon or on the portions thereof to be redeemed will cease to accrue. In case any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed and shall state that on and after the date fixed for redemption, upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes and tenor in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued. The notice of redemption of Notes to be redeemed at the option of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company. On or before 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the redemption date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in this Section, the Company will deposit with the Trustee or with one or more Paying Agents (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, set aside, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.06) an amount of money sufficient to redeem on the redemption date all the Notes so called for redemption at the appropriate redemption price, together with accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption. If all of the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the Company will deliver to the Trustee at least 10 days prior to the last date on which notice of redemption may be given to Holders pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 3.04 (or such shorter period as shall be acceptable to the Trustee) an Officers' Certificate stating that all such Notes are to be redeemed. If less than all the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the Company will deliver to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the last date on which notice of redemption may be given to Holders pursuant to 31
the first paragraph of this Section 3.04 (or such shorter period as shall be acceptable to the Trustee) an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed. In case of a redemption at the election of the Company prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee, prior to the giving of any notice of redemption to Holders pursuant to this Section, an Officers' Certificate stating that such redemption is not prohibited by such restriction. If less than all the Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select, pro rata, by lot or in such manner as it shall deem appropriate and fair, Notes to be redeemed in whole or in part. Notes may be redeemed in part in multiples equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Notes or any multiple thereof. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Notes selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Notes shall relate, in the case of any Note redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Note which has been or is to be redeemed. Section 3.05. Payment of Notes Called for Redemption. If notice of redemption has been given as above provided, the Notes or portions of Notes specified in such notice shall become due and payable on the date and at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption, and on and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Notes at the redemption price, together with interest accrued to such date) interest on the Notes or portions of Notes so called for redemption shall cease to accrue, and, except as provided in Section 7.09 and Section 8.02, such Notes shall cease from and after the date fixed for redemption to be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture, and the Holders thereof shall have no right in respect of such Notes except the right to receive the redemption price thereof and unpaid interest to the date fixed for redemption. On presentation and surrender of such Notes at a place of payment specified in said notice, said Notes or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and redeemed by the Company at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued thereon to the date fixed for redemption; provided that payment of interest becoming due on or prior to the date fixed for redemption, shall be payable to the Holders of such Notes registered as such on the relevant record date subject to the terms and provisions of Section 2.01 and Section 2.14 hereof. If any Note called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal shall, until paid or duly provided for, bear interest from the date fixed for redemption at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of an Original Issue Discount Note) borne by such Note. 32
Upon presentation of any Note redeemed in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to or on the order of the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Note or Notes of such tenor, of authorized denominations, in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Note so presented. Section 3.06. Exclusion of Certain Notes from Eligibility for Selection for Redemption. Notes shall be excluded from eligibility for selection for redemption if they are identified by registration and certificate number in a written statement signed by an authorized officer of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at least 40 days prior to the last date on which notice of redemption may be given as being owned of record and beneficially by, and not pledged or hypothecated by, either (a) the Company or (b) an entity specifically identified in such written statement as directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company. ARTICLE 4 COVENANTS Section 4.01. Payment of Notes. The Company shall pay the Principal of and interest on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes and this Indenture. The interest on the Notes shall be payable only to the Holders thereof and at the option of the Company may be paid by mailing checks for such interest payable to or upon the written order of such Holders at their last addresses as they appear on the Note Register of the Company. Notwithstanding any provisions of this Indenture and the Notes to the contrary, if the Company and a Holder of any Note so agree, payments of interest on, and any portion of the Principal of, such Holder's Note (other than interest payable at maturity or on any redemption or repayment date or the final payment of Principal on such Note) shall be made by the Paying Agent, upon receipt from the Company of immediately available funds by 11:00 A.M., New York City time (or such other time as may be agreed to between the Company and the Paying Agent), directly to the Holder of such Note (by Federal funds wire transfer or otherwise) if the Holder has delivered written instructions to the Trustee 15 days prior to such payment date requesting that such payment will be so made and designating the bank account to which such payments shall be so made and in the case of payments of Principal, surrenders the same to the Trustee in exchange for a Note or Notes aggregating the same principal amount as the unredeemed principal amount of the Notes surrendered. The Trustee shall be entitled to rely on the last instruction delivered by the Holder pursuant to this Section 4.01 unless a new instruction is delivered 15 days prior to a payment date. The Company will indemnify and hold each of the Trustee and any Paying Agent harmless against any loss, liability or expense (including attorneys' fees) resulting from any act or 33
omission to act on the part of the Company or any such Holder in connection with any such agreement or from making any payment in accordance with any such agreement. The Company shall pay interest on overdue Principal, and interest on overdue installments of interest, to the extent lawful, at the rate per annum specified in the Notes. Section 4.02. Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange or for presentation for payment and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Company hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee's Agent, located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, as such office or agency of the Company. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 10.01. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. Section 4.03. Noteholders' Lists. The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the holders of the Notes (a) semi-annually not more than 15 days after each Regular Record Date, as hereinabove specified, as of such record date and (b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within thirty days after receipt by the Company of any such request as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such information is furnished. Section 4.04. Certificate to Trustee. The Company will furnish to the Trustee annually, on or before a date not more than four months after the end of its fiscal year (which, on the date hereof, is a calendar year), a brief certificate (which need not contain the statements required by Section 10.03) from its principal executive, financial or accounting officers to his or her knowledge of the compliance of the Company with all conditions and covenants under this 34
Indenture (such compliance to be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture). Section 4.05. Reports by the Company. (a) The Company covenants to file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company has filed the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents, and other reports which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. (b) The Company covenants to provide the Trustee, within 50 days of the effective date of the amendment or waiver, a copy of any amendment or waiver under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities that amends or waives the definitions of "Covered Asset Sale", "Creditors' Portion" or Adjusted Free Cash Flow" set forth therein. Section 4.06. Limitation on Liens. (a) If the Company shall incur, issue, assume or Guarantee any indebtedness for borrowed money represented by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar evidences of indebtedness, secured by a mortgage, pledge or other lien on any Principal Property or any Capital Stock or indebtedness held directly by the Company of any Subsidiary, the Company shall secure the Notes equally and ratably with (or prior to) such indebtedness, so long as such indebtedness shall be so secured, unless after giving effect thereto the aggregate amount of all such indebtedness so secured, together with all Attributable Debt in respect of sale and leaseback transactions involving Principal Properties, would not exceed 15% of the Consolidated Net Assets of the Company. This restriction will not apply to, and there shall be excluded in computing secured indebtedness for the purpose of such restriction, indebtedness secured by (i) property of any Subsidiary, (ii) liens on property of, or on any shares of stock or Debt of, any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary, (iii) liens in favor of the Company or any Subsidiary, (iv) liens in favor of U.S. or foreign governmental bodies to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments, (v) liens on property, shares of stock or Debt existing at the time of acquisition thereof (including acquisition through merger or consolidation), purchase money mortgages and construction cost mortgages existing at or incurred within 180 days of the time of acquisition thereof, (vi) liens existing on the first date on which any Notes are authenticated by the Trustee, (vii) liens under one or more credit facilities for indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $900 million at any time outstanding, (viii) liens incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financings, and (ix) any extension, renewal or replacement of any Debt secured by any liens referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) through (viii), inclusive. (b) Without the consent of holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes outstanding, the Company shall not pledge the Collateral as security for any indebtedness, other than (i) all Debt outstanding under the Senior Secured 35
Credit Facilities pursuant to the Collateral Documents as amended from time to time (except that the amount of such Debt may not exceed the original loans and commitments secured thereunder less permanent repayments and commitment reductions and any prepayment or repayments of obligations may not be reborrowed and the commitments shall be reduced accordingly), (ii) up to $225 million aggregate principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of other senior secured Debt, (iii) obligations under interest rate and foreign currency hedging agreements, and cash management services arrangements provided to the Company by lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, (iv) obligations under the Banc of America Securities Option Agreement, (v) obligations under the Notes, in aggregate principal amount not to exceed $305 million, (vi) such other obligations as are permitted to be so secured by the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, (vii) up to $60 million of other corporate obligations that by their terms are entitled to be secured on a pari passu basis, and (viii) obligations the proceeds of which are used to refinance any of the foregoing; provided that for purposes of determining compliance with this Section 4.06(b), in the event that an obligation meets the criteria of more than one of the categories described in clauses (i) through (viii) above, the Company shall, in its sole discretion, classify such item of indebtedness in any manner that complies with this covenant and such obligation will be treated as having been incurred pursuant only to one of such clauses. In addition, the Company may, at any time, change the classification of an obligation (or any portion thereof) to any other clause provided that the Company would be permitted to incur such obligation (or such portion thereof) pursuant to such other clause at such time of reclassification. Section 4.07. Equal and Ratable Liens. (a) To the extent the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company grants a Lien upon any of its property or assets to secure the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall, contemporaneously with the granting of such Lien, secure the Company's Obligations under the Indenture equally and ratably with the Senior Secured Credit Facility Obligations secured by such Lien. (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, from and after the date when all Liens granted in favor of the holders of the Senior Secured Credit Facility Obligations are released (and are not concurrently replaced with any new Liens on any asset of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries securing Senior Secured Credit Facility Obligations), the provisions of this Section will no longer apply. The provisions of Section 4.06 will, however, continue to apply. Section 4.08. Restriction on Subsidiary Guarantees. (a) If any of the Company's Subsidiaries shall Guarantee any indebtedness under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, then such Subsidiary shall, contemporaneously with the granting of such Guarantee, Guarantee the Company's Obligations under the Indenture equally and ratably with (or prior to) the Senior Secured Credit Facilities so Guaranteed, so long as the Senior Secured Credit Facilities shall be 36
so Guaranteed; provided that this restriction shall not apply to any Guarantees of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities existing on the Original Issue Date. (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, from and after the date when all Guarantees granted in favor of the holders of the Senior Secured Credit Facility Obligations pursuant to clause (a) of this Section 4.08 are released (and are not concurrently replaced with any new Guarantees), the provisions of this Section will no longer apply. Section 4.09. Limitation on Sale Leaseback Transactions. The Company will not enter into any sale and leaseback transaction involving any Principal Property, the acquisition or completion of construction and commencement of full operation of which has occurred more than 180 days prior thereto, unless (a) the Company could incur a lien on such property under the restrictions described in Section 4.06 hereof in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to the sale and leaseback transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes or (b) the Company, within 180 days after the sale or transfer by the Company, applies to the retirement of its Funded Debt an amount equal to the greater of (i) the net proceeds of the sale of the Principal Property sold and leased pursuant to such arrangement or (ii) the fair market value of the Principal Property so sold and leased as determined by the Board of Directors; provided that the amount to be applied to the retirement of Funded Debt of the Company shall be reduced by (A) the principal amount of any Notes delivered within 180 days after such sale or transfer to the Trustee for retirement and cancellation, and (B) the principal amount of Funded Debt, other than Notes, voluntarily retired by the Company within 180 days after such sale or transfer; provided further that no retirement referred to in this clause (b) may be effected by payment at maturity or pursuant to any mandatory sinking fund payment or any mandatory prepayment provision. Section 4.10. Transfer of Certain Net Cash Proceeds Received by Subsidiaries. The Company will cause its Subsidiaries to transfer to it, by way of dividend, reduction of capital, or repayment of intercompany loans, the Creditors' Portion of the Net Cash Proceeds of any Covered Asset Sale and the Creditors' Portion of the Net Cash Proceeds from any Covered Capital Markets Transactions within 60 days of such Subsidiary's receipt thereof, but only to the extent that, after giving effect to such Covered Asset Sale or Covered Capital Markets Transaction, the cash balances of such Subsidiary exceed its Ordinary Course Cash Needs, and such transfer shall not be required to be made if (1) it cannot be made in a tax efficient manner or (2) such transfer would violate any applicable contracts or would violate applicable law or if applicable law would require minority shareholder approval, a valuation or a discretionary order or would, in the Company's good faith determination or the good faith determination of a majority of the board of directors of such Subsidiary, involve a reasonable likelihood of there being a breach of fiduciary duties by the directors of such Subsidiary. In connection with managing transfers of Net Cash Proceeds pursuant 37
to this Section 4.10 and making loans, Investments and other advances to Subsidiaries, the Company may cause Net Cash Proceeds to be transferred among Subsidiaries, rather than transferred to the Company, in lieu of loans, Investments or other advances the Company would otherwise be permitted to make and would make. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (a) in the case of any Net Cash Proceeds that would otherwise be required to be transferred to the Company pursuant to this covenant, the Company need not make such transfer if the Company nonetheless makes the related mandatory redemption of the Notes that would otherwise be required pursuant to Section 3.02 using funds not otherwise required to be used for the mandatory redemption of the Notes and (b) if the Net Cash Proceeds of any Covered Asset Sale or Covered Capital Markets Transaction received by a Subsidiary are less than $10 million, the Company shall not be required to cause such Net Cash Proceeds effectively to be transferred directly or indirectly to it and applied to redeem the Notes until the aggregate Net Cash Proceeds not so applied equals or exceeds $10 million. ARTICLE 5 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION Section 5.01. When Company May Merge, Etc. The Company shall not consolidate with, merge with or into, or sell, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets (as an entirety or substantially as an entirety in one transaction or a series of related transactions) to, any Person (other than a consolidation with or merger with or into a Subsidiary or a sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition to a Subsidiary) or permit any Person to merge with or into the Company unless either (x) the Company shall be the continuing Person or (y) the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which properties and assets of the Company shall be a solvent corporation organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by a supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company on all of the Notes issued under this Indenture and the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee (a) an Opinion of Counsel stating that such consolidation, merger or transfer and such supplemental indenture complies with this provision and that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to such transaction have been complied with and that such supplemental indenture constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company or such successor enforceable against such entity in accordance with its terms, subject to customary exceptions and (b) an Officers' Certificate to the effect that immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default or Default shall have occurred and be continuing. 38
Section 5.02. Successor Substituted. Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01 of this Indenture, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein. ARTICLE 6 DEFAULT AND REMEDIES Section 6.01. Events of Default. An "Event of Default" shall occur with respect to the Notes if: (a) the Company defaults in the payment of the Principal of the Notes when the same becomes due and payable at maturity, upon acceleration, redemption or mandatory repurchase, or otherwise; (b) the Company defaults in the payment of interest on the Notes when the same becomes due and payable, and such default continues for a period of 30 days; (c) the Company defaults in the performance of or breaches any other covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture with respect to the Notes or in the Notes and such default or breach continues for a period of 60 consecutive days after written notice to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the Notes affected thereby; (d) an event of default, as defined in any indenture or instrument evidencing or under which the Company has at the date of the Indenture or shall thereafter have outstanding any indebtedness, shall happen and be continuing and, in the case of indebtedness other than indebtedness under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, either (i) such default results from the failure to pay the principal of such indebtedness in excess of $50 million at final maturity of such indebtedness or (ii) as a result of such default the maturity of such indebtedness shall have been accelerated so that the same shall be or become due and payable prior to the date on which the same would otherwise have become due and payable, and such acceleration shall not be rescinded or annulled within 60 days and, the principal amount of such indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other indebtedness of the Company the maturity of which has been accelerated, aggregates $50 million or more; provided that the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of any such default unless written notice thereof shall 39
have been given to the Trustee by the Company, by the holder or an agent of the holder of any such indebtedness, by the trustee then acting under any indenture or other instrument under which such default shall have occurred, or by the Holders of not less than 25% in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding; and provided further that if such default shall be remedied or cured by the Company or waived by the holder of such indebtedness, then the Event of Default under the Indenture by reason thereof shall be deemed likewise to have been remedied, cured or waived without further action on the part of the Trustee, any Holder or any other person; (e) any of the Collateral Documents ceases to be in full force and effect, or any of the Collateral Documents ceases to give the Holders any of the liens purported to be created thereby, or any of the Collateral Documents is declared null and void or the Company denies in writing that it has any further liability under any Collateral Document or gives written notice to such effect (in each case other than in accordance with the terms of the Indenture or the terms of the Collateral Documents); provided that if a failure of the sort described in this clause (e) is susceptible of cure, no Event of Default shall arise under this clause (e) with respect thereto until 30 days after notice of such failure shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee or Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes; (f) a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for (i) relief in respect of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator, or similar official of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries or for all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries or (iii) the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, and, in each case, such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or (g) the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries (i) commences a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consents to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, (ii) consents to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries or for all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries or (iii) effects any general assignment for the benefit of creditors. Section 6.02. Acceleration. (a) If an Event of Default (other than as described in clauses (f) or (g) of Section 6.01 with respect to the Company) with respect to the Notes then outstanding occurs and is continuing, then, and in each 40
and every such case, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding hereunder by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Noteholders), may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare the entire Principal of all Notes, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable; provided that if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as a result of a default described in clause (d) of Section 6.01 arising under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities (other than a payment default or a default as a result of which the maturity of the Senior Secured Credit Facility shall have been accelerated so that it shall be or become due and payable prior to the date on which the same would otherwise have become due and payable), such acceleration may not occur until 20 Business Days after the occurrence of such default unless such default under the Senior Secured Credit Facility results from a bankruptcy or insolvency related event involving a Subsidiary of the Company or the acceleration of other indebtedness arising from such bankruptcy or insolvency related event, in which case such acceleration may not occur until 60 days after the occurrence of such default. (b) If an Event of Default described in clause (f) or (g) of Section 6.01 occurs and is continuing with respect to the Company, then the Principal of all the Notes then outstanding and interest accrued thereon, if any, shall ipso facto be and become immediately due and payable, without any declaration or other action by any Holder or the Trustee. The foregoing provisions, however, are subject to the condition that if, at any time after the Principal of the Notes shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the Company shall pay or shall deposit with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest upon all the Notes and the Principal of any and all Notes which shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal and, to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law, on overdue installments of interest, at the same rate as the rate of interest specified in the Notes to the date of such payment or deposit) and such amount as shall be sufficient to cover all amounts owing the Trustee under Section 7.06, and if any and all Events of Default under the Indenture, other than the non-payment of the principal of Notes which shall have become due by acceleration, shall have been cured, waived or otherwise remedied as provided herein, then and in every such case the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal amount of all the then outstanding Notes that have been accelerated, by written notice to the Company and to the Trustee, may waive all defaults with respect to the Notes and rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences, but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereon. 41
Section 6.03. Other Remedies. If a payment default or an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue, in its own name or as trustee of an express trust, any available remedy by proceeding at law or in equity to collect the payment of Principal of and interest on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. Section 6.04. Waiver of Past Defaults. Subject to Section 6.02, Section 6.07 and Section 9.02, the Holders of at least a majority in Principal amount of the outstanding Notes affected, by notice to the Trustee, may waive an existing Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes and its consequences, except a Default in the payment of Principal of or interest on any Note as specified in clauses (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 or in respect of a covenant or provision of this Indenture which cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Note affected. Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default with respect to the Notes arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereto. Section 6.05. Control by Majority. Subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.02(e), the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal amount of the outstanding Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Notes by this Indenture; provided, that the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture, that may involve the Trustee in personal liability or that the Trustee determines in good faith may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of Holders not joining in the giving of such direction; and provided further, that the Trustee may take any other action it deems proper that is not inconsistent with any directions received from Holders of Notes pursuant to this Section 6.05. Section 6.06. Limitation on Suits. No Holder of any Note may institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture or the Notes, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless: (i) such Holder has previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Notes; 42
(ii) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal amount of outstanding Notes shall have made written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy; (iii) such Holder or Holders have offered and, if requested, provided to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against any costs, liabilities or expenses to be incurred in compliance with such request; (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and (v) during such 60-day period, the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal amount of the outstanding Notes have not given the Trustee a direction that is inconsistent with such written request. A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over such other Holder. Section 6.07. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of Principal of or interest, if any, on such Holder's Note on or after the respective due dates expressed on such Note, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder. Section 6.08. Collection Suit by Trustee. If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes in payment of Principal or interest specified in clause (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of Principal of, and accrued interest remaining unpaid on, together with interest on overdue Principal of, and, to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest on overdue installments of interest on, the Notes, in each case at the rate specified in such Notes, and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover all amounts owing the Trustee under Section 7.06. Section 6.09. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.06) and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor on the Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect and receive any moneys, securities or other property payable or deliverable upon conversion or exchange of the Notes or upon any such claims and to distribute the 43
same, and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it under Section 7.06. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to empower the Trustee to authorize or consent to, or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder, any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding Section 6.10. Application of Proceeds. Any moneys or properties collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article in respect of the Notes shall be applied in the following order at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee: FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.06; SECOND: to Holders for amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and interest on the Notes, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal and interest; and THIRD: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company or any other person lawfully entitled thereto. Section 6.11. Restoration of Rights and Remedies. If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then, and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Company, Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted. Section 6.12. Undertaking for Costs. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, in either case in respect to the Notes, a court may require any party litigant in such suit (other than the Trustee) to file an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.12 does not apply to a suit by 44
a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes. Section 6.13. Rights and Remedies Cumulative. Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Notes in Section 2.09, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy. Section 6.14. Delay or Omission Not Waiver. No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any holder to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article 6 or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be. ARTICLE 7 TRUSTEE Section 7.01. General. The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as set forth herein. The Trustee undertakes to perform only the duties expressly set forth herein and no implied covenant or obligation shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Article 7. Section 7.02. Certain Rights of Trustee. (a) The Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, Officers' Certificate, Opinion of Counsel (or both), statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person or persons. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in 45
the document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit; (b) before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate and/or an Opinion of Counsel, which shall conform to Section 10.03. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such certificate or opinion. Subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.02, whenever in the administration of the trusts of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering or omitting any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof; (c) the Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents not regularly in its employ and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent or attorney appointed with due care; (d) any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed); and any Board Resolution may be evidenced to the Trustee by a copy thereof certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company; (e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Holders, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; (f) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers or for any action it takes or omits to take in accordance with the direction of the Holders in accordance with Section 6.05 relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture; (g) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon; and 46
(h) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default hereunder and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, Officers' Certificate, Opinion of Counsel, Board Resolution, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, security, or other paper or document unless requested in writing so to do by the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate Principal amount of the Notes then outstanding; provided that, if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require reasonable indemnity against such expenses or liabilities as a condition to proceeding. Section 7.03. Individual Rights of Trustee. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of the Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights. Section 7.04. Trustee's Disclaimer. The recitals contained herein and in the Notes (except the Trustee's certificate of authentication) and the Collateral Documents shall be taken as statements of the Company and not of the Trustee and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. Neither the Trustee nor any of its agents (i) makes any representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes and (ii) shall be accountable for the Company's use or application of the proceeds from the Notes, if any. Section 7.05. Notice of Default. If any Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing and if such Default is known to the actual knowledge of a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Holder of Notes notice of such Default within 90 days after it occurs (or after such Responsible Officer of the Trustee acquires knowledge thereof) to all Holders, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived before the mailing or publication of such notice; provided, however, that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the Principal of or interest on any Note, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders. Section 7.06. Compensation and Indemnity. The Company shall pay to the Trustee such compensation as shall be agreed upon in writing from time to time for its services. The compensation of the Trustee shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a Trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of pocket expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses of the Trustee's agents, 47
counsel and other persons not regularly in its employ. The Trustee shall not be required to make any advances hereunder. The Company shall indemnify the Trustee for, and hold it harmless against, any loss or liability or expense incurred by it without gross negligence or bad faith on its part arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Indenture and the Notes or the issuance of the Notes or the trusts hereunder and the performance of duties under this Indenture and the Notes, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against or investigating any claim or liability and of complying with any process served upon it or any of its officers in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties under this Indenture and the Notes. To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.06, the Trustee shall have a Lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, in its capacity as Trustee, except money or property held in trust to pay Principal of, and interest on particular Notes. The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate and indemnify the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder and shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or the rejection or termination of this Indenture under bankruptcy law. Such additional indebtedness shall be a senior claim to that of the Notes upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Notes, and the Notes are hereby subordinated to such senior claim. If the Trustee renders services and incurs expenses following an Event of Default under Section 6.01(f) or Section 6.01(g) hereof, the parties hereto and the Holders by their acceptance of the Notes hereby agree that such expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any bankruptcy law. Section 7.07. Replacement of Trustee. A resignation or removal of the Trustee as Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee as Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section 7.07. The Trustee may resign as Trustee with respect to the Notes at any time by so notifying the Company in writing. The Holders of a majority in Principal amount of the outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee as Trustee with respect to the Notes by so notifying the Trustee in writing and may appoint a successor Trustee with respect thereto with the consent of the Company. The Company may remove the Trustee as Trustee with respect to the Notes if: (i) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent; (ii) a receiver or other public officer takes 48
charge of the Trustee or its property; or (iii) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting. If the Trustee resigns or is removed as Trustee with respect to the Notes, or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee with respect to the Notes for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee with respect thereto. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in Principal amount of the outstanding Notes may appoint a successor Trustee in respect of such Notes to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If the successor Trustee with respect to the Notes does not deliver its written acceptance required by the next succeeding paragraph of this Section 7.07 within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect thereto. A successor Trustee with respect to the Notes shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately after the delivery of such written acceptance, subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.06, (i) the retiring Trustee shall transfer all property held by it as Trustee in respect of the Notes to the successor Trustee, (ii) the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee in respect of the Notes shall become effective and (iii) the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee in respect of the Notes under this Indenture. A successor Trustee shall mail notice of its succession to each Holder of Notes. Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the preceding paragraph. The Company shall give notice of any resignation and any removal of the Trustee with respect to the Notes and each appointment of a successor Trustee in respect of the Notes to all Holders of Notes. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee with respect to the Notes pursuant to this Section 7.07, the Company's obligations under Section 7.06 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee. Section 7.08. Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc. If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation or national, banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation or national banking 49
association without any further act shall be the successor Trustee with the same effect as if the successor Trustee had been named as the Trustee herein. Section 7.09. Money Held in Trust. The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law and except for money held in trust under Article 8 of this Indenture. ARTICLE 8 SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE; UNCLAIMED MONEYS Section 8.01. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture. If at any time (a) the Company shall have paid or caused to be paid the Principal of, and interest on all the Notes outstanding hereunder (other than Notes which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.09) as and when the same shall have become due and payable, or (b) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all notes theretofore authenticated (other than any Notes which shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.06) or (c) (i) all the notes not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and (ii) the Company shall have irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds the entire amount in cash (other than moneys repaid by the Trustee or any paying agent to the Company in accordance with Section 8.04) or U.S. Government Obligations, maturing as to principal and interest in such amounts and at such times as will insure the availability of cash sufficient to pay at maturity or upon redemption all Notes (other than any Notes which shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.09) not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal, and interest due or to become due on or prior to such date of maturity as the case may be, and if, in any such case, the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to Notes, then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect with respect to the Notes (except as to (i) rights of registration of transfer and exchange of notes, and the Company's right of optional, redemption, if any, (ii) substitution of mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes, (iii) rights of holders to receive payments of Principal and interest thereon, upon the original stated due dates therefor (but not upon acceleration), (iv) the rights, obligations and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (v) the rights of the Noteholders as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the property so deposited with the Trustee 50
payable to all or any of them), and the Trustee, on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging such satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture; provided, that the rights of Holders of the Notes to receive amounts in respect of Principal of and interest on the Notes held by them shall not be delayed longer than required by then-applicable mandatory rules or policies of any securities exchange upon which the Notes are listed. The Company agrees to reimburse the Trustee for any costs or expenses thereafter reasonably and properly incurred and to compensate the Trustee for any services thereafter reasonably and properly rendered by the Trustee in connection with this Indenture or the Notes. Section 8.02. Application by Trustee of Funds Deposited for Payment of Notes. Subject to Section 8.04, all moneys deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 8.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it to the payment, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company acting as its own paying agent), to the Holders of the particular Notes for the payment or redemption of which such moneys have been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal and interest; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Section 8.03. Repayment of Moneys Held by Paying Agent. In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, all moneys then held by any paying agent under the provisions of this indenture shall, upon demand of the Company, be repaid to it or paid to the Trustee and thereupon such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys. Section 8.04. Return of Moneys Held by Trustee and Paying Agent Unclaimed for Two Years. Any moneys deposited with or paid to the Trustee or any paying agent for the payment of the Principal of or interest on any Note and not applied but remaining unclaimed for two years after the date upon which such Principal or interest shall have become due and payable, shall, upon the written request of the Company and unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law, be repaid to the Company by the Trustee or such paying agent, and the Holder of the Note shall, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property laws, thereafter look only to the Company for any payment which such Holder may be entitled to collect, and all liability of the Trustee or any paying agent with respect to such moneys shall thereupon cease. Section 8.05. Defeasance and Discharge of Indenture. The Company shall be deemed to have paid and shall be discharged from any and all obligations in respect of the Notes, on the 123rd day after the deposit referred to in clause (i) hereof has been made, and the provisions of this Indenture shall no longer be in effect with respect to the Notes (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, 51
shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except as to: (a) rights of registration of transfer and exchange, and the Company's right of optional redemption, (b) substitution of apparently mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes, (c) rights of holders to receive payments of Principal thereof and interest thereon, upon the original stated due dates therefore (but not upon acceleration), (d) the rights, obligations and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (e) the rights of the Noteholders as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the property so deposited with the Trustee payable to all or any of them; provided that the following conditions shall have been satisfied: (i) with reference to this provision the Company has deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 7.07) as trust funds in trust, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of the Notes, (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide not later than one day before the due date of any payment referred to in subclause (C) of this clause (i) money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge without consideration of the reinvestment of such interest and after payment of all federal, state and local taxes or other charges and assessments in respect thereof payable by the Trustee the principal of, premium, if any, and each installment of interest on the outstanding Notes on the due dates thereof or earlier redemption (irrevocably provided for under agreements satisfactory to the Trustee), as the case may be, in accordance with the terms of Notes and the Indenture; (ii) the Company has delivered to the Trustee (A) either (x) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that Holders of Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the Company's exercise of its option under this Section 8.05 and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit, defeasance and discharge had not occurred, which Opinion of Counsel must be based upon a ruling of the Internal Revenue Service to the same effect or a change in applicable federal income tax law or related treasury regulations after the date of this Indenture or (y) a ruling directed to the Trustee received from the Internal Revenue Service to the same effect as the aforementioned Opinion of Counsel and (B) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the creation of the defeasance trust does not violate the Investment Company Act of 1940 and after the passage of 123 days following the deposit, the trust fund will, not be subject to the effect of 52
Section 547 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or Section 15 of the New York Debtor and Creditor Law; (iii) immediately after giving effect to such deposit on a pro forma basis, no Event of Default, or event that after the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or during the period ending on the 123rd day after the date of such deposit, and such deposit shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound; and (iv) if at such time the Notes are listed on a national securities exchange, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Notes will not be delisted as a result of such deposit, defeasance and discharge. Section 8.06. Defeasance of Certain Obligations. The Company may omit to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in, and this Indenture will no longer be in effect with respect to, any covenant in Article 4 (other than Section 4.01), Section 5.01, or Article 11 or in any indenture supplemental hereto and clause (c) (with respect to any covenants in Article 4 or Section 5.01 or in any indenture supplemental) and clause (e) of Section 6.01 shall be deemed not to be an Event of Default, if (a) with reference to this Section 8.06, the Company has deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 7.07) as trust funds in trust, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of the Notes and the Indenture with respect to the Notes, (i) money in an amount or (ii) U.S. Government Obligations which through the payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide not later than one day before the due dates thereof or earlier redemption (irrevocably provided for under agreements satisfactory to the Trustee), as the case may be, of any payment referred to in subclause (iii) of this clause (a) money in an amount, or (iii) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge without consideration of the reinvestment of such interest and after payment of all federal, state and local taxes or other charges and assessments in respect thereof payable by the Trustee, the principal of, premium, if any, and each installment of interest on the outstanding Notes on the due date thereof or earlier redemption (irrevocably provided for under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee), as the case may be; 53
(b) the Company has delivered to the Trustee (i) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that Holders of Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal, income tax purposes as a result of the Company's exercise of its option under this Section 8.06 and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit and defeasance had not occurred and (ii) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the creation of the defeasance trust does not violate the Investment Company Act of 1940 and after the passage of 123 days following the deposit, the trust fund will not be subject to the effect of Section 547 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or Section 15 of the New York Debtor and Creditor Law; (c) immediately after giving effect to such deposit on a pro forma basis, no Event of Default, or event that after the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or during the period ending on the 123rd day after the date of such deposit, and such deposit shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound; and (d) if at such time the Notes are listed on a national securities exchange, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Notes will not be delisted as a result of such deposit, defeasance and discharge. Section 8.07. Reinstatement. If the Trustee or paying agent is unable to apply any monies or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with Article 8 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article until such time as the Trustee or paying agent is permitted to apply all such monies or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with Article 8; provided, however, that if the Company has made any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the monies or U.S. Government Obligations held by the Trustee or paying agent. ARTICLE 9 AMENDMENTS, SUPPLEMENTS AND WAIVERS Section 9.01. Without Consent of Holders. The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes without notice to or the consent of any Holder: 54
(i) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency in this Indenture; provided that such amendments or supplements shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect; (ii) to comply with Article 5; (iii) to comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939; (iv) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder with respect to the Notes by a successor Trustee; (v) establish the form or forms or terms of Notes; (vi) to provide for certificated or unregistered securities and to make all appropriate changes for such purpose; (vii) to directly or indirectly release the Liens created by the Collateral Documents on less than all or substantially all the Collateral; or (viii) to make any change that does not materially and adversely affect the rights of any Holder. The Collateral Documents may be amended or supplemented as provided therein and compliance with any of the provisions of the Collateral Documents may be waived as provided therein. Section 9.02. With Consent of Holders. Subject to Section 6.04 and Section 6.07, without prior notice to any Holders, the Company and the Trustee may amend this Indenture and the Notes with the written consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate Principal amount of the outstanding Notes affected by such amendment (voting as a single class) and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes affected thereby (voting as a single class) by written notice to the Trustee may waive future compliance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9.02, without the consent of each Holder affected thereby, an amendment or waiver, including a waiver pursuant to Section 6.04, may not: (a) change the stated maturity of the Principal of or any installment of interest on, such Holder's Note; (b) reduce the Principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon; 55
(c) reduce the above stated percentage of outstanding Notes the consent of whose holders is necessary to modify or amend the Indenture; or (d) reduce the percentage or aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes the consent of whose Holders is required for any supplemental indenture, for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain Defaults and their consequences provided for in this Indenture. It shall not be necessary for the consent of any Holder under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Company shall give to the Holders affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. The Company will mail supplemental indentures to Holders upon request. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture or waiver. Section 9.03. Revocation and Effect of Consent. Until an amendment or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same Debt as the Note of the consenting Holder, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent as to its Note or portion of its Note. Such revocation shall be effective only if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver shall become effective with respect to any Notes affected thereby on receipt by the Trustee of written consents from the requisite Holders of outstanding Notes affected thereby. The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date (which may be not less than five nor more than 60 days prior to the solicitation of consents) for the purpose of determining the Holders of the Notes entitled to consent to any amendment, supplement or waiver. If a record date is fixed, then, notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, those Persons who were such Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies) and only those Persons shall be entitled to consent to such amendment, supplement or waiver or to revoke any consent previously given, whether or not such Persons continue to be such Holders after such record date. No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 90 days after such record date. After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective with respect to the Notes, it shall bind every Holder unless it is of the type described in any of clauses (i) through (iv) of Section 9.02. In case of an amendment or waiver of the 56
type described in clauses (i) through (iv) of Section 9.02, the amendment or waiver shall bind each such Holder who has consented to it and every subsequent Holder of a Note that evidences the same indebtedness as the Note of the consenting Holder. Section 9.04. Notation on or Exchange of Notes. If an amendment, supplement or waiver changes the terms of any Note, the Trustee may require the Holder thereof to deliver it to the Trustee. The Trustee may place an appropriate notation (provided in writing by the Company) on the Note about the changed terms and return it to the Holder and the Trustee may place an appropriate notation on any Note thereafter authenticated. Alternatively, if the Company or the Trustee so determines, the Company in exchange for the Note shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a new Note of the same tenor that reflects the changed terms. Section 9.05. Trustee to Sign Amendments, Etc. The Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Article 9 is authorized or permitted by this Indenture, stating that all requisite consents have been obtained or that no consents are required and stating that such supplemental indenture constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to customary exceptions. Subject to the preceding sentence, the Trustee shall sign such amendment, supplement or waiver if the same does not adversely affect the rights of the Trustee. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, execute any such amendment, supplement or waiver that affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise. ARTICLE 10 MISCELLANEOUS Section 10.01. Notices. Any notice or communication shall be sufficiently given if written and (a) if delivered in person when received, or (b) if mailed by first class mail 5 days after mailing, or (c) as between the Company and the Trustee if sent by facsimile transmission, where transmission is confirmed, in each case addressed as follows: 57
if to the Company: The AES Corporation 1001 North 19th Street Arlington, VA 22209 Telecopy: (703) 528-4510 Attention: General Counsel if to the Trustee: Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association Corporate Trust Services Sixth Street and Marquette Avenue MAC N9303-120 Minneapolis, MN 55479 Telecopy: (612) 669-9825 Attention: AES Corporation Administrator The Company or the Trustee by written notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. Any notice or communication shall be sufficiently given to Holders by mailing to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Note Register. Notice mailed shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed. Copies of any such communication or notice to a Holder shall also be mailed to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. Except as otherwise provided in this Indenture, if a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided in this Section 10.01, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver. In case it shall be impracticable to give notice as herein contemplated, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. 58
Section 10.02. Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent. Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee: (a) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and (b) an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with. Section 10.03. Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion. Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include: (a) a statement that each person signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto; (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statement or opinion contained in such certificate or opinion is based; (c) a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, be has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of each such person, such condition or covenant has been complied with; provided, however, that, with respect to matters of fact, an Opinion of Counsel may rely on an Officers' Certificate or certificates of public officials. Section 10.04. Evidence of Ownership. The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may deem and treat the person in whose name any Note shall be registered upon the Note Register as the absolute owner of such Note (whether or not such Note shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing thereon) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the Principal of and, subject to the provisions of this Indenture, interest on such Note and for all other purposes; and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. Section 10.05. Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent or Registrar. The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Paying Agent or Registrar may make reasonable rules for its functions. 59
Section 10.06. Payment Date Other Than a Business Day. If any date for payment of Principal or interest on any Note shall not be a Business Day at any place of payment, then payment of Principal of or interest on such Note, as the case nay be, need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at any place of payment with the same force and effect as if made on such date and no interest shall accrue in respect of such payment for the period from and after such date. Section 10.07. Governing Law. The laws of the State of New York shall govern this Indenture and the Notes, without giving effect to such state's conflicts of laws principles. Section 10.08. No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements. This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture or loan or debt agreement of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company. No indenture or agreement may be used to interpret this Indenture except as provided in Section 1.01 with respect to the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Section 10.09. Successors. All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors. Section 10.10. Duplicate Originals. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. Section 10.11. Separability. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. Section 10.12. Table of Contents, Headings, Etc. The Table of Contents and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms and provisions hereof. Section 10.13. Incorporators, Stockholders, Officers and Directors of Company Exempt from Individual Liability. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture or any indenture supplemental hereto, or in any Note, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, as such or against any past, present or future stockholder, officer, director or employee, as such, of the Company or of any successor, either directly or through the Company or any successor, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability 60
being expressly waived and released by the acceptance of the Notes by the holders thereof and as part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes. Section 10.14. Judgment Currency. The Company agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, that (a) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the Principal of or interest on the Notes (the "Required Currency") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the "Judgment Currency"), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered, unless such day is not a Business Day, then, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the Business Day preceding the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered and (b) its obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (i) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with subsection (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (ii) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable and (iii) shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Indenture. ARTICLE 11 SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS Section 11.01. Security. (a) In order to secure the Company's Obligations under the Indenture equally and ratably with the Senior Secured Credit Facility Obligations, the Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries named in any of the Collateral Documents as a party thereto, to execute and deliver to the Collateral Trustees prior to the Original Issue Date each Collateral Document to which it is a party. The Company and its Subsidiaries shall comply with all covenants and agreements contained in the Collateral Documents the failure to comply with which would have a material and adverse effect on the Liens purported to be created thereby, unless such failure to comply is waived by the requisite lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and if, after that waiver, the Company is in compliance with Sections 4.06 and 4.07. 61
The Company will give the Trustee notice of such waiver within 50 consecutive days of such waiver. (b) The Trustee and each holder of each Note by its acceptance of that Note acknowledges and agrees that: (i) this Indenture, as originally executed and delivered by the parties hereto, does not create any Lien on any property or securities which secures the Company's Obligations under this Indenture or this Indenture; (ii) the Collateral Documents, when executed and delivered by the parties thereto, will comply with the provisions of Sections 4.06 and 4.07; (iii) the Collateral Documents provide, and any security document that becomes effective after the Original Issue Date, may provide, that the Liens created thereby or thereunder automatically will be released and extinguished with respect to any property or security that is transferred or otherwise disposed of in accordance with the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; (iv) without the necessity of any consent of or notice to the Trustee or any holder of the Company's Obligations under the Indenture, the Company and the Collateral Trustees may amend, modify, supplement or terminate any Collateral Document as long as the Company remains in compliance with Sections 4.06 and 4.07; provided that any such amendment, modification, supplement or termination which would release, in one transaction or in a series of related transactions, the Liens created by the Collateral Documents on all or substantially all of the Collateral will require the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding; (v) as among the Trustee and the holders of the Company's Obligations under the Indenture and the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the Collateral Trustees, those lenders and the Collateral Trustees will have the sole ability to control and obtain remedies with respect to all Collateral (including on sale or liquidation of any Collateral after acceleration of the Notes or the Senior Secured Credit Facility Obligations) without the necessity of any consent of or notice to the Trustee or any such holder; (vi) any or all Liens granted under the Collateral Documents for the benefit of the Holders will be automatically released, without the necessity of any consent of the Trustee or any Holders, upon a release of 62
such Lien or Liens pursuant to the terms of the Collateral Documents and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or if such release is approved by the requisite lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; provided that any release, in one transaction or a series of related transactions, of the Liens created by the Collateral Documents on all or substantially all of the Collateral will require the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding. (vii) the relative rights of the holders of the Company's Obligations under the Indenture and the holders of indebtedness or other obligations secured by Liens on the Collateral are governed by, and are subject to the terms and conditions of, the Collateral Documents and not this Indenture; and (viii) without the necessity of any consent of or notice to the Trustee or any holder of the Company's Obligations under the Indenture, the Company may, on behalf of itself or any of its Subsidiaries, request and instruct the Collateral Trustees to, on behalf of each secured party under the Collateral Documents, (A) execute and deliver to the Company, for the benefit of any Person, such release documents as the Company may reasonably request, of all liens and security interests held by the Collateral Trustees in such assets, and such Person shall be entitled to rely conclusively on such release document, and (B) deliver any such assets in the possession of the Collateral Trustees to the Company. Section 11.02. Notice of Payment, Discharge or Defeasance. The Trustee and each Holder, by its acceptance of a Note, agree that upon the payment in full or discharge pursuant to Article 8 of the Company's Obligations under the Indenture, the Trustee shall without notice to or consent of any Holder, upon the written request of the Company, certify to the Collateral Trustees, in writing, that the Company's Obligations under the Indenture have been paid in full, or that this Indenture has been discharged in accordance with Article 8. 63
SIGNATURES IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the date first written above. THE AES CORPORATION as the Company Attest: By: /s/ Barry J. Sharp ----------------------------------- Name: Barry J. Sharp Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as the Trustee Attest: By: /s/ Jane Y. Schweiger ---------------------------------- Name: Jane Y. Schweiger Title: Vice President 64
EXHIBIT A [FACE OF NOTE] THE AES CORPORATION 10% Senior Secured Note Due 2005 [CUSIP] [CINS] _______________ $_______________ The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, promises to pay to ____________________, or its registered assigns, the principal sum of ____________ DOLLARS ($______) on the Final Maturity Date (as defined on the reverse hereof). Interest Rate: 10% per annum. Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15, commencing _________. Regular Record Dates: June 1 and December 1. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Senior Secured Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Senior Secured Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers. Date: THE AES CORPORATION By: ------------------------------- Name: Title: By: ------------------------------- Name: Title: A-2
(Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication) This is one of the 10% Senior Secured Notes Due 2005 described in the Indenture referred to in this Note. WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: ------------------------------- Authorized Signatory A-3
[REVERSE SIDE OF NOTE] THE AES CORPORATION SENIOR SECURED NOTE DUE 2005 1. Principal and Interest. THE AES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which definition shall include any successor thereto in accordance with the Indenture (as defined below)), promises to pay the principal amount set forth on the reverse side hereof on the Final Maturity Date. The "Final Maturity Date" means December 12, 2005; provided, however, that if, prior to July 15, 2005, the Company's 4.50% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures have not been refinanced to mature on a date after December 12, 2005, then Final Maturity Date means July 15, 2005; provided further that if the Final Maturity Date occurs on a day that is not a Euro-Dollar Business Day, the Final Maturity Date shall occur on the next succeeding Euro-Dollar Business Day unless such Euro-Dollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case the Final Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Euro-Dollar Business Day. The Company promises to pay, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, interest on the principal amount set forth on the reverse side hereof at a rate of 10% per annum. Interest on this Senior Secured Note will accrue from and including the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from December 13, 2002 through but excluding the date on which interest is paid. Interest shall be payable in arrears on December 15 and June 15 of each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing ___________. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on the Senior Secured Notes is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as if made on such date. 2. Method of Payment. The Company will pay interest on the Senior Secured Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Senior Secured Notes at the close of business on the fifteenth calendar day prior to each Interest Payment Date (each, a "Regular Record Date"). All payments of principal of, and any interest on the Senior Secured Notes issued in global form will be made to the Depositary as the registered holder thereof. The Company expects that the Depositary, upon receipt of any payment A-4
of principal or interest on such Senior Secured Notes, will credit the accounts of persons who have accounts with the Depositary ("participants") with payment of principal or interest on the date payable in amounts proportionate to their respective beneficial interests in the principal amount of such Senior Secured Note as shown on the records of the Depositary. The Company also expects that payments by participants to owners of beneficial interests in any Senior Secured Note held through such participants will be governed by standing instructions and customary practices. Such payments will be the responsibility of such participants. Holders must surrender any Certificated Notes to a Paying Agent to collect the principal payment on such Certificated Notes. At the Company's option, interest on any Certificated Notes will be payable by a U.S. dollar check mailed to the registered address of the Holder of such Certificated Note. The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. 3. Paying Agent and Registrar. Initially, Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association (the "Trustee") will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-Registrar without notice. 4. Indenture. The Company issued the Senior Secured Notes under an Indenture dated as of December 13, 2002 between the Company and the Trustee. The terms of the Senior Secured Notes include those stated in the Indenture. The Senior Secured Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of the Senior Secured Notes are referred to the Indenture for a statement of them. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Indenture. The Senior Secured Notes are senior secured obligations of the Company. The Indenture limits, among other things, the ability of the Company to incur certain additional secured indebtedness, provide guarantees, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions and requires the Company to use a portion of Adjusted Free Cash Flow and a portion of the Net Cash Proceeds from certain asset sales and capital markets transactions to redeem the Senior Secured Notes. 5. Optional Redemption. The Senior Secured Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at any time, and from time to time, at the option of the Company upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice at a redemption price equal to (a) the sum of (i) 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date plus (ii) a Make-Whole Amount (as defined in the Indenture), if any, if redeemed on or prior to December 15, 2004 or (b) 100% of the principal amount thereof plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if redeemed after December 15, 2004. 6. Mandatory Redemption Upon Receipt of Net Cash Proceeds and Adjusted Free Cash Flow. (a) Within 90 days of the Company's receipt of the Net Cash Proceeds from certain Asset Sales, called Covered Asset Sales, the A-5
Company may be obligated to use a portion of the Net Cash Proceeds from such Asset Sales to make a mandatory redemption of the Senior Secured Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such notes plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of purchase. (b) If at the end of any fiscal year the Company has certain Adjusted Free Cash Flow, the Company may be obligated to use a portion of such Adjusted Free Cash Flow, within 90 days of such fiscal year end, to make a mandatory redemption of the Senior Secured Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such notes plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of purchase. (c) Within 90 days of the consummation of a Covered Capital Markets Transaction, the Company may be obligated to use 50% of the Net Cash Proceeds from such Covered Capital Markets Transaction to make a mandatory redemption of the Senior Secured Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption; provided that the Company shall not be obligated to make such mandatory redemption unless, on the date that such Covered Capital Markets Transaction is consummated, the amounts outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities is zero and all commitments to extend credit thereunder have been terminated. The Company's obligations to make the mandatory redemptions set forth in clauses (a), (b) and (c) above are subject to a number of conditions which are set forth in Section 3.02 of the Indenture. 7. Additional Mandatory Redemption. On November 25, 2004, the Company shall redeem, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, Senior Secured Notes with an aggregate principal amount equal to (i) 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Secured Notes issued on the Original Issue Date less (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Senior Secured Notes redeemed on or prior to November 25, 2004 pursuant to the optional and mandatory redemption provisions described in Section 5 and Section 6 of this Note. 8. Partial Redemption, Notice of Redemption. If less than all the Senior Secured Notes are to be redeemed at any time, selection of Senior Secured Notes for redemption will be made by the Trustee on a pro rata basis, by lot or by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate; provided that no Senior Secured Notes of $1,000 or less shall be redeemed in part. Notices of redemption shall be mailed by first class mail at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of Senior Secured Notes to be redeemed at its registered address. If any Senior Secured Note is to be A-6
redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption that relates to such Senior Secured Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Senior Secured Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon surrender of the original Senior Secured Note. Senior Secured Notes called for redemption become due on the date fixed for redemption. On and after the redemption date the Senior Secured Notes shall cease to be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture and the Holders thereof shall have no right in respect of such Senior Secured Notes except the right to receive the redemption price thereof and unpaid interest to the date fixed for redemption. 9. Denominations, Transfer, Exchange. The Senior Secured Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Senior Secured Notes only in accordance with the Indenture and as set forth in the Restricted Legend and the DTC Legend. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay to it any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Senior Secured Notes or portion of a Senior Secured Note selected for redemption, or transfer or exchange any Senior Secured Notes for a period of 15 days before selection of such Senior Secured Notes to be redeemed. 10. Persons Deemed Owners. The registered holder of a Senior Secured Note may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes. 11. Unclaimed Money. If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent will pay the money back to the Company at its written request. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an "abandoned property" law designates another Person. 12. Amendment, Supplement, Waiver. The Company and the Trustee may, without the consent of the holders of any outstanding Senior Secured Notes, amend, waive or supplement the Indenture or the Senior Secured Notes for certain specified purposes, including, among other things, curing ambiguities, defects or inconsistencies, directly or indirectly releasing the Liens created by the Collateral Documents on less than all or substantially all the Collateral or making any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder in any material respect. Other amendments and modifications of the Indenture or the Senior Secured Notes may be made by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Senior Secured Notes. A-7
13. Successor Corporation. When a successor corporation assumes all the obligation of its predecessor under the Senior Secured Notes and the Indenture and the transaction complies with the terms of Article 5 of the Indenture, the predecessor corporation, subject to certain exceptions, will be released from those obligations. 14. Defaults and Remedies. Events of Default are set forth in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(f) or (g) of the Indenture with respect to the Company) occurs and is continuing, then the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Senior Secured Notes (voting as a single class) may, or the Trustee, may declare the principal of, plus accrued interest, if any, to be due and payable immediately; provided that if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as a result of a default described in Section 6.01(d) of the Indenture arising under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities (other than a payment default or a default as a result of which the maturity of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities shall have been accelerated so that they shall be or become due and payable prior to the date on which the same would otherwise have become due and payable), such acceleration may not occur until 20 business days after the occurrence of such default unless such default under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities results from a bankruptcy or insolvency related event involving a Subsidiary of the Company or the acceleration of other indebtedness arising from such bankruptcy or insolvency related event, in which case such acceleration may not occur until 60 days after the occurrence of such default. Upon a declaration of acceleration, the principal, premium, if any, and accrued interest shall be immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(f) or (g) of the Indenture with respect to the Company occurs and is continuing, the principal of and accrued interest on all of the Senior Secured Notes shall ipso facto become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of Senior Secured Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the Senior Secured Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Senior Secured Notes. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Secured Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Senior Secured Notes notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment of principal or interest or a failure to comply with Article 5 of the Indenture) if it determines in good faith that withholding notice is in their interests. 15. Security. In order to secure the Company's Obligations under the Indenture, the Company and certain of its Subsidiaries have entered into the Collateral Documents. The Company's Obligations under the Indenture shall be A-8
secured by Liens on the Collateral in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Collateral Documents. The Indenture requires that Holders of the Senior Secured Notes be granted a lien equally and ratably with any lien granted on additional assets to secure the holders of Senior Secured Credit Facility Obligations subsequent to the Issue Date. Each Holder of this Senior Secured Note, by accepting the same, agrees that (i) the Collateral Documents provide, and any Collateral Document that becomes effective after the Issue Date, may provide, that the Liens created thereby or thereunder automatically will be released and extinguished with respect to any property or security that is transferred or otherwise disposed of in accordance with the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; (ii) without the necessity of any consent of or notice to the Trustee or any Holder under the Indenture, the Company and the Collateral Trustees may amend, modify, supplement or terminate any Collateral Document as long as the Company remains in compliance with the Indenture; (iii) as among the Trustee and the Holders under the Indenture and the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the Collateral Trustees, those lenders and the Collateral Trustees will have the sole ability to control and obtain remedies with respect to all Collateral (including on sale or liquidation of any Collateral after acceleration of the Senior Secured Notes or the Senior Secured Credit Facility Obligations) without the necessity of any consent of or notice to the Trustee or any such holder; (iv) any or all Liens granted under the Collateral Documents for the benefit of the Holders will be automatically released, without the necessity of any consent of the Trustee or the Holders, upon a release of such Lien or Liens pursuant to the terms of the Collateral Documents and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or if such release is approved by the requisite lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; provided that any release, in one transaction or a series of related transactions, of the Liens created by the Collateral Documents on all or substantially all of the Collateral will require the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Senior Secured Notes; (v) the relative rights of the Holders under the Indenture and the holders of Indebtedness or other obligations secured by Liens on the Collateral are governed by, and are subject to the terms and conditions of, the Collateral Documents and not the Indenture; and (vi) without the necessity of any consent of or notice to the Trustee or any Holder, the Company may, on behalf of itself or any of its Subsidiaries, request and instruct the Collateral Trustees to, on behalf of each secured party under the Collateral Documents, (A) execute and deliver to the Company, for the benefit of any Person, such release documents as the Company may reasonably request, of all liens and security interests held by the Collateral Trustees in such assets, and such Person shall be entitled to rely conclusively on such release document, and (B) deliver any such assets in the possession of the Collateral Trustees to the Company. 16. Trustee Dealing with Company. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform A-9
services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not Trustee. 17. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee, stockholder or beneficiary, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Senior Secured Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Senior Secured Notes by accepting a Senior Secured Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Senior Secured Notes. 18. Defeasance. The Indenture contains provisions (which provisions apply to this Senior Secured Note) for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company in respect of this Senior Secured Note and (b) certain restrictive covenants, certain provisions relating to the Collateral and Defaults and Events of Default, in each case upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein. 19. Authentication. This Senior Secured Note shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Senior Secured Note. 20. Abbreviations. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of Senior Secured Notes or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TENANT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act). 21. GOVERNING LAW. THE INDENTURE AND THIS SENIOR SECURED NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW. The Company will furnish to any Holder of Senior Secured Notes upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to: THE AES CORPORATION 1001 North 19th Street, Suite 2000 Arlington, Virginia 22209 Telephone: (703) 522-1315 Telecopy: (703) 528-4510 Attention: General Counsel A-10
[FORM OF TRANSFER NOTICE] FOR VALUE RECEIVED the undersigned registered holder hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto Insert Taxpayer Identification No. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Please print or typewrite name and address including zip code of assignee - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the Company with full power of substitution in the premises. A-11
[THE FOLLOWING PROVISION TO BE INCLUDED ON ALL CERTIFICATES BEARING A RESTRICTED LEGEND] In connection with any transfer of this Senior Secured Note occurring prior to ______________, the undersigned confirms that such transfer is made without utilizing any general solicitation or general advertising and further as follows: Check One [_] (a) This Note is being transferred to a "qualified institutional buyer" in compliance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and a Rule 144A Certificate (as defined in the Indenture) is being furnished herewith. [_] (b) This Note is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in compliance with the exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, provided by Regulation S thereunder, and certification in the form of Exhibit D to the Indenture is being furnished herewith. [_] (c) This Note is being transferred to the Company. or [_] (d) This Note is being transferred other than in accordance with (a), (b) or (c) above and documents are being furnished which comply with the conditions of transfer set forth in this Note and the Indenture. If none of the foregoing boxes is checked, the Trustee is not obligated to register this Note in the name of any Person other than the Holder hereof unless and until the conditions to any such transfer of registration set forth herein and in the Indenture have been satisfied. Date:____________________ ___________________________________ Seller By NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within-mentioned instrument in every particular, without alteration or any change whatsoever. A-12
Signature Guarantee: ----------------------------------------------- By Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Association Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. - --------------------------------------- To be executed by an executive officer A-13
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF NOTES The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for Certificated Notes or a part of another Global Note have been made:(1)
- ---------- (1) This Schedule applies to Global Notes only and will not be attached to any Certificated Notes. A-14
EXHIBIT B RESTRICTED LEGEND THIS NOTE (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT") OR THE LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT AND ANY ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT IS ACTING IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THAT IT EXERCISES SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUCH ACCOUNT, OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON (WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR (C) IT IS EITHER THE PERSIMMON TRUST, A CHARITABLE TRUST ESTABLISHED BY ROGER W. SANT, A DIRECTOR OF THE ISSUER, OR PAUL T. HANRAHAN, AN EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE ISSUER, AND IS AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR AS DEFINED IN RULE 501 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, AND (2) AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL, PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS NOTE OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT,
(D) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(E) ABOVE, THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY RULE 144 EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. B-2
EXHIBIT C DTC LEGEND UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF CEDE & CO. OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSFER PROVISIONS OF THE INDENTURE.
EXHIBIT D Regulation S Certificate _____________, _____ WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION Attention: Corporate Trust Services Sixth Street and Marquette Avenue MAC N9303-120 Minneapolis, MN 55470 Re: THE AES CORPORATION 10% Senior Secured Notes Due 2005 (the "Notes") Issued under the Indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of December 13, 2002 relating to the Notes ------------------------------------------------------------- Ladies and Gentlemen: Terms are used in this Certificate as used in Regulation S ("Regulation S") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), except as otherwise stated herein. [CHECK A OR B AS APPLICABLE.] [_] A. This Certificate relates to our proposed transfer of $____ principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture. We hereby certify as follows: 1. The offer and sale of the Notes was not and will not be made to a person in the United States (unless such person is excluded from the definition of "U.S. person" pursuant to Rule 902(k)(2)(vi) or the account held by it for which it is acting is excluded from the definition of "U.S. person" pursuant to Rule 902(k)(2)(i) under the circumstances described in Rule 902(h)(3)) and such offer and sale was not and will not be specifically targeted at an identifiable group of U.S. citizens abroad. 2. Unless the circumstances described in the parenthetical in paragraph 1 above are applicable, either (a) at the time the buy order was originated, the buyer was outside the United States or we and any person acting on our behalf reasonably believed that the buyer was outside the United States or (b) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market, and neither we nor any person acting on our behalf knows that the transaction was pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States.
3. Neither we, any of our affiliates, nor any person acting on our or their behalf has made any directed selling efforts in the United States with respect to the Notes. 4. The proposed transfer of Notes is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act. 5. If we are a dealer or a person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration in respect of the Notes, and the proposed transfer takes place during the Restricted Period (as defined in the Indenture), or we are an officer or director of the Company, we certify that the proposed transfer is being made in accordance with the provisions of Rule 904(b) of Regulation S. [_] B. This Certificate relates to our proposed exchange of $____ principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture for an equal principal amount of Notes to be held by us. We hereby certify as follows: 1. At the time the offer and sale of the Notes was made to us, either (i) we were not in the United States or (ii) we were excluded from the definition of "U.S. person" pursuant to Rule 902(k)(2)(vi) or the account held by us for which we were acting was excluded from the definition of "U.S. person" pursuant to Rule 902(k)(2)(i) under the circumstances described in Rule 902(h)(3); and we were not a member of an identifiable group of U.S. citizens abroad. 2. Unless the circumstances described in paragraph 1(ii) above are applicable, either (a) at the time our buy order was originated, we were outside the United States or (b) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and we did not pre-arrange the transaction in the United States. 3. The proposed exchange of Notes is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act. D-2
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this Certificate and are irrevocably authorized to produce this Certificate or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceeding or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. Very truly yours, [NAME OF SELLER (FOR TRANSFERS) OR OWNER (FOR EXCHANGES)] By: -------------------------------- Name: Title: Address Date: ------------------------ D-3
EXHIBIT E TAX LEGEND THIS SENIOR SECURED NOTE WAS ISSUED WITH ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT FOR U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES. THE HOLDER OF THIS SENIOR SECURED NOTE MAY CONTACT THE AES CORPORATION, ATTN: BARRY J. SHARP, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, 1001 NORTH 19TH STREET, 20TH FLOOR, ARLINGTON, VA 22209 FOR INFORMATION REGARDING THE ISSUE PRICE, AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT, ISSUE DATE, YIELD TO MATURITY, COMPARABLE YIELD AND PROJECTED PAYMENT SCHEDULE OF THIS SENIOR SECURED NOTE, SUCH INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED BEGINNING NO LATER THAN 10 DAYS AFTER THE ISSUE DATE, PROMPTLY UPON REQUEST. E-1

EXHIBIT 4.2 EXECUTION COPY COLLATERAL TRUST AGREEMENT dated as of December 12, 2002 among The Grantors referred to herein as Grantors and WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY as Corporate Trustee and BRUCE L. BISSON as Individual Trustee
TABLE OF CONTENTS ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS SECTION 1.01. Certain Defined Terms............................................3 SECTION 1.02. Certain References...............................................9 ARTICLE II CONFIRMATION AND CREATION OF SECURITY INTERESTS SECTION 2.01. Collateral Trust Estate..........................................9 SECTION 2.02. Security for Secured Obligations................................10 ARTICLE III COLLATERAL ACCOUNT SECTION 3.01. Collateral Account..............................................10 ARTICLE IV COLLATERAL TRUST AGREEMENT DEFAULTS; REMEDIES SECTION 4.01. Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice.......................11 SECTION 4.02. Direction by Required Representative(s).........................13 SECTION 4.03. Right to Initiate Judicial Proceedings, Etc.....................13 SECTION 4.04. Remedies Not Exclusive..........................................13 SECTION 4.05. Waiver of Certain Rights........................................14 SECTION 4.06. Limitation on Collateral Trustees' Duties in Respect of Collateral...................................................14 SECTION 4.07. Limitation by Law...............................................14 SECTION 4.08. Absolute Rights of Secured Holders and Representatives..........15 ARTICLE V APPLICATION OF PROCEEDS SECTION 5.01. Application of Proceeds.........................................15 SECTION 5.02. Application of Withheld Amounts.................................18 SECTION 5.03. Release of Amounts in Collateral Account........................18 SECTION 5.04. Distribution Date...............................................18 ARTICLE VI AGREEMENTS WITH THE COLLATERAL TRUSTEE SECTION 6.01. Delivery of Agreements..........................................19 SECTION 6.02. Information as to Representatives...............................19 SECTION 6.03. Compensation and Expenses.......................................20 SECTION 6.04. Stamp and Other Similar Taxes...................................20 i
SECTION 6.05. Filing Fees, Excise Taxes, Etc..................................20 SECTION 6.06. Indemnification.................................................20 SECTION 6.07. Further Assurances..............................................21 ARTICLE VII THE COLLATERAL TRUSTEE SECTION 7.01. Declaration of Trust............................................22 SECTION 7.02. Exculpatory Provisions..........................................22 SECTION 7.03. Delegation of Duties............................................23 SECTION 7.04. Reliance by Collateral Trustees.................................23 SECTION 7.05. Limitations on Duties of the Trustees...........................24 SECTION 7.06. Moneys to Be Held in Trust......................................25 SECTION 7.07. Resignation and Removal of Collateral Trustees..................25 SECTION 7.08. Status of Successors to Trustee.................................26 SECTION 7.09. Merger of the Corporate Trustee.................................26 SECTION 7.10. Powers of Individual Trustee....................................26 SECTION 7.11. Additional Co-Trustees; Separate Trustees.......................27 SECTION 7.12. Trustees Appointed Attorneys-in-Fact............................28 SECTION 7.13. Ordinary Care...................................................29 ARTICLE VIII RELEASE OF COLLATERAL SECTION 8.01. Partial Release of Collateral...................................29 SECTION 8.02. Full Release of Collateral Upon Satisfaction of Certain Secured Obligations.............................................30 SECTION 8.03. Effect of Release of Collateral.................................31 ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 9.01. Amendments, Supplements and Waivers.............................31 SECTION 9.02. Additional Actions of Representatives...........................32 SECTION 9.03. Notices.........................................................33 SECTION 9.04. Headings........................................................34 SECTION 9.05. Severability....................................................34 SECTION 9.06. Treatment of Payee or Indorsee by Trustees......................34 SECTION 9.07. Dealings with the Grantors......................................34 SECTION 9.08. Claims..........................................................34 SECTION 9.09. Binding Effect..................................................34 SECTION 9.10. Governing Law...................................................34 SECTION 9.11. Effectiveness...................................................35 ii
SECTION 9.12. Reexecution of Agreement........................................35 SECTION 9.13. Effect on Credit Agreements.....................................35 SECTION 9.14. Counterparts....................................................35 Schedule I - Fee Schedule iii
COLLATERAL TRUST AGREEMENT COLLATERAL TRUST AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 2002 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Agreement") by and among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), the other Persons listed on the signature pages hereof and the Additional Grantors (the Borrower, the Persons so listed and the Additional Grantors being, collectively, the "Grantors"), Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, not in its individual capacity but solely as corporate trustee (together with any successor corporate trustee appointed pursuant to Article VII, the "Corporate Trustee"), and Bruce L. Bisson, an individual residing in the State of Delaware, not in his individual capacity but solely as individual trustee (together with any successor individual trustee appointed pursuant to Article VII, the "Individual Trustee"; and, together with the Corporate Trustee, the "Collateral Trustees"), the foregoing trustees being trustees for the Secured Holders. Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Article I of this Agreement. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement and the Security Agreement and not otherwise defined in Article I of this Agreement are used in this Agreement as defined in the Credit Agreement and the Security Agreement. PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS: (1) The Borrower has entered into an Amended and Restated Credit, Reimbursement and Exchange Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 (said Agreement, as it may hereafter be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being the "Credit Agreement") with the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, the Banks party thereto (the "Banks"), the Revolving Fronting Banks and the Drax LOC Fronting Bank party thereto, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent for the Bank Parties (in such capacity, the "Agent") and as Collateral Agent for the Bank Parties (in such capacity, the "Credit Agreement Collateral Agent"; and together with the Agent, the "Agents"). (2) In order to induce the Banks, the Revolving Fronting Banks, the Drax LOC Fronting Banks and the Agents to enter into the Credit Agreement, the Grantors have agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral (as hereinafter defined) to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Lender Parties to secure the Obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the Notes issued pursuant thereto. (3) The Borrower will enter into an Indenture to be dated as of December 13, 2002 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect on the date hereof and as the same may hereafter be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the terms thereof, the "Exchange Note Indenture") with Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association (the "Exchange Note Trustee") to exchange the Borrower's (i) 8.75% Senior Notes due 2002 and (ii) the 7.375% Remarketable or Redeemable Securities due 2013 for the 10% Senior Secured Exchange Notes due 2005 to be issued on December 13, 2002 (the "Exchange Notes", and together with the Exchange Note Indenture (only to the extent relating to the Exchange Notes), the "Exchange Note Agreements"). (4) In order to induce the Exchange Note Trustee to enter into the Exchange Note Indenture, the Grantors have agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the
2 Collateral to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Exchange Note Holders to secure the Obligations of the Borrower under the Exchange Note Agreements. (5) The Borrower has entered into a Sponsor Agreement dated as of March 7, 2000 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect on the date hereof and as the same may hereafter be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the terms thereof, the "Sponsor Agreement") with BankBoston, N.A., Nassau Branch, as agent (the "Sul Agent"), pursuant to which the Borrower has agreed to guarantee the obligations of AES Cayman Guaiba, Ltd. under a Credit Agreement dated as of March 6, 2001 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect on the date hereof and as the same may hereafter be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the terms thereof, the "Sul Credit Agreement") with BankBoston, N.A., Nassau Branch, Banc of America Securities, LLC, Unibanco-Uniao de Bancos Brasilieros S.A. and WestLB AG, New York Branch and the lenders named therein (collectively, the "Sul Guaranteed Parties"), in an amount of up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000,000 (together with any other agreement or instrument delivered in connection with such guaranty, the "Sul Guarantee"). (6) In order to satisfy certain conditions under the Sul Guarantee, the Grantors have agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Sul Guaranteed Parties to secure the Obligations of the Borrower under the Sul Guarantee in an amount of up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000,000. (7) The Borrower has entered into a Gas Transportation Agreement dated as of July 21, 2000 with Florida Public Utilities Company pursuant to which Fleet National Bank (the "Lake Worth LOC Bank") issued in favor of Florida Public Utilities Company irrevocable standby letter of credit number 1S1280134 (together with the application and agreement therefor dated on or about July 6, 2001, the "Lake Worth Letter of Credit") in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,490,449. (8) In order to satisfy certain conditions under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, the Grantors have agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Lake Worth LOC Bank to secure the obligation of Lake Worth Generation LLC ("Lake Worth"), a Subsidiary of the Borrower, to reimburse the Lake Worth LOC Bank for any drawings under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit in an amount of up to a maximum aggregate amount of $5,490,449. (9) This Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents are intended to secure the other Secured Agreements and the Collateral Trustees have agreed to undertake the rights, powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents in order to effect such purpose. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and in order to (1) induce (a) the Banks to continue the Loans and the Revolving Credit Loan Banks to make Revolving Credit Loans, (b) the Revolving Fronting Banks to issue (or be deemed to have issued) Revolving Letters of Credit, (c) the Drax LOC Fronting Bank to be deemed to have issued the
3 Drax Letter of Credit and to make Drax Loans in respect of Drax L/C Drawings, (d) the Hedge Banks to enter into Secured Hedge Agreements from time to time, (e) the entry into the Secured Treasury Management Service Agreements by a Bank Party or an Affiliate thereof and (f) the Exchange Note Trustee to enter into the Exchange Note Indenture and (2) satisfy certain conditions under the Sul Guarantee and the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, each Grantor hereby agrees with the Collateral Trustees for their benefit and in trust for the ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders (as each term is hereinafter defined) as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS SECTION 1.01. Certain Defined Terms. The following terms shall have the following meanings as used herein (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined): "Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01. "Applicable Agreement" means the Credit Agreement Documents, the Shared Collateral Documents, the Exchange Note Agreements, the Sul Guarantee, the Lake Worth Letter of Credit and the Other Debt Agreements. "Authorized Officer" means the Chairman, the President, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Comptroller, any Vice President, the Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer or the Assistant Treasurer of a Person or any other officer designated as an "Authorized Officer" by the Board of Directors (or equivalent governing body) of such Person. "Bankruptcy Code" means Title 11 of the United States Code entitled "Bankruptcy", as amended from time to time. "Banks" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Borrower" has the meaning specified in the recital of parties to this Agreement. "Business Day" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City or the city in which the Corporate Trustee maintains its corporate trust office. "BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement" means the Charge and Assignment of Shares (as such agreement may hereafter be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time) dated December 12, 2002 between AES International Holdings II, Ltd. and the Collateral Trustees. "Cash Equivalents" means any of the following, to the extent owned by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries free and clear of all Liens other than Liens created under the
4 Shared Collateral Documents and having a maturity of not greater than 360 days from the date of issuance thereof: (a) readily marketable direct obligations of the Government of the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof or obligations unconditionally guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the Government of the United States, (b) insured certificates of deposit of or time deposits with any commercial bank that is a Lender Party or a member of the Federal Reserve System, issues (or the parent of which issues) commercial paper rated as described in clause (c) below, is organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof and has combined capital and surplus of at least $1 billion or (c) commercial paper in an aggregate amount of no more than $5,000,000 per issuer outstanding at any time, issued by any corporation organized under the laws of any State of the United States and rated at least "Prime-1" (or the then equivalent grade) by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or "A-1" (or the then equivalent grade) by Standard & Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. The term "Cash Equivalents" shall include any mutual fund sponsored or managed by an Affiliate of the Corporate Trustee which mutual fund's assets consist of "Cash Equivalents" as defined herein. "Collateral" means the Creditor Group Collateral, as such term is defined in the Credit Agreement. "Collateral Account" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01. "Collateral Trustees" has the meaning specified in the recital of parties to this Agreement. "Collateral Trustees' Fees" means the fees and other amounts payable to the Collateral Trustees pursuant to Sections 6.03, 6.04 and 6.05 and amounts claimed and unpaid pursuant to Section 6.06. "Collateral Trust Agreement Default" means (i) so long as any Secured Obligation remains outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under the Credit Agreement or any Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment or any Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, (A) in respect of the exercise of remedies with respect to the Account Collateral, the Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral and the Securities Accounts (and all Collateral from time to time credited to the Deposit Accounts and the Securities Accounts) or the exercise of remedies under Section 15 of the Security Agreement or Section 11 of the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement, an Event of Default described in clauses (a), (e), (f), (g) and (h) of Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement and (B) in respect of any other exercise of rights and remedies under the Shared Collateral Documents, any Event of Default, in each case, shall have occurred and be continuing under the Credit Agreement, and as a result thereof, the Credit Agreement Defaulted Party has the right to declare all of the Secured Obligations of the Loan Parties under the Credit Agreement to be due and payable prior to the stated maturity thereof and (ii) at any time that no Secured Obligations remain outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under the Credit Agreement and no Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment and no Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, (A) in respect of the exercise of remedies with respect to the Account Collateral, the Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral and the Securities Accounts (and all Collateral from time to time credited to the Deposit Accounts and the Securities Accounts) or the exercise of remedies under Section 15 of the Security
5 Agreement or Section 11 of the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement, events of default under the Exchange Note Agreements, the Sul Credit Agreement, the Lake Worth Letter of Credit or any of the Other Debt Agreements of the type described in clauses (a), (e), (f), (g) and (h) of Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement and (B) in respect of any other exercise of rights and remedies under the Shared Collateral Documents, any event of default, in each case, shall have occurred and be continuing under the Exchange Note Agreements, the Sul Credit Agreement, the Lake Worth Letter of Credit or any of the Other Debt Agreements, and as a result thereof, the Other Debt Defaulted Party has the right to declare all of the Secured Obligations of the Borrower under the Exchange Note Agreements, the Sul Credit Agreement, the Lake Worth Letter of Credit or the Other Debt Agreements to be due and payable prior to the stated maturity thereof. "Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice" means a written notice delivered in connection with a Collateral Trust Agreement Default. "Collateral Trust Estate" means all of the right, title and interest of the Collateral Trustees, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, in and to the Collateral. "Corporate Trustee" has the meaning specified in the recital of parties to this Agreement. "Credit Agreement" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements. "Credit Agreement Collateral Agent" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Credit Agreement Defaulted Party" means the Agent or the percentage of the Banks specified in the Credit Agreement that have the right thereunder upon the occurrence and continuance of an Event of Default under the Credit Agreement (without the requirement that any further time elapse) to declare all of the Secured Obligations of the Loan Parties under the Credit Agreement to be due and payable prior to the stated maturity thereof. "Credit Agreement Documents" means (i) the Credit Agreement, (ii) the Notes, (iii) the Secured Hedge Agreements and (iv) the Secured Treasury Management Service Agreements, in each case as amended from time to time. "Defaulted Agreement Party" means the Credit Agreement Defaulted Party or the Other Debt Defaulted Party, as applicable. "Distribution Date" means any date on which the Collateral Trustees shall distribute moneys from the Collateral Account pursuant to Section 5.01. "Exchange Note Agreements" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Exchange Note Holders" means at any time the registered holders of the Exchange Notes issued under the Exchange Note Indenture.
6 "Exchange Note Indenture" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Exchange Notes" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Exchange Note Trustee" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Grantors" has the meaning specified in the recitals of parties to this Agreement. "Indemnified Event" has the meaning specified in the Section 7.05(e) of this Agreement. "Individual Trustee" has the meaning specified in the recital of parties to this Agreement. "Lake Worth" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Lake Worth Letter of Credit" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Lake Worth LOC Bank" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Lender Parties" means the Agent, the Banks, the Revolving Fronting Banks, the Drax LOC Fronting Banks, the Hedge Banks and the Credit Agreement Collateral Agent. "Moody's" means Moody's Investor's Service, Inc. "Payment Information" has the meaning specified in Section 6.02(a) of this Agreement. "Other Debt" means Debt issued pursuant to any Other Debt Agreement. "Other Debt Agreement" means any other agreement or instrument pursuant to which the Borrower has incurred Debt permitted by Sections 5.07(a)(iii); 5.07(a)(x) and 5.07(a)(xi) of the Credit Agreement. "Other Debt Defaulted Party" means the Other Debt Representatives, acting collectively on behalf of the Required Other Debt Holders. "Other Debt Holders" means at any time the registered holders of Other Debt issued under any Other Debt Agreement. "Other Debt Representatives" means the representatives of the Required Other Debt Holders, and may include, as the case may be, the Exchange Note Trustee, the Sul Agent,
7 the Lake Worth LOC Bank or the representative of the Other Debt Holders under any Other Debt Agreement. "Remedies Limitations" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(i) of the Security Agreement. "Representatives" means at any time, collectively, (a) the Agent, as the representative hereunder for the Lender Parties at such time, (b) the Exchange Note Trustee, as the representative hereunder for the Exchange Note Holders, (c) the Sul Agent, as the representative hereunder for the Sul Guaranteed Parties, (d) the Lake Worth LOC Bank on behalf of itself and (e) the representatives hereunder for the Other Debt Holders at such time. "Required Exchange Note Holder Approval" means the Collateral Trustees shall have received a certificate from the Exchange Note Trustee that it has received the consent of those Exchange Note Holders holding a majority of the principal outstanding amount of the Exchange Notes for such amendment, waiver or consent. "Required Other Debt Holders" means Secured Holders that own or hold (either by themselves or through their respective Secured Holders) more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the outstanding Debt under the Exchange Note Agreements, the Sul Guarantee, the Lake Worth Letter of Credit and the Other Debt Agreements at any given time. "Required Representative(s)" means (a) at any time that no Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred or is continuing and any Secured Obligations remain outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under the Credit Agreement or any Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment or any Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, the Agent acting in its own discretion or at the direction of the Required Banks at such time, (b) at any time that no Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred or is continuing, and no Secured Obligations remain outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under the Credit Agreement and no Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment and no Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, the Other Debt Representatives acting at the direction of the Required Other Debt Holders, (c) at any time that a Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred and is continuing and any Secured Obligations remain outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under any Credit Agreement or any Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment or any Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, the Agent, on behalf of itself and the Required Banks or (d) at any time that a Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred and is continuing and no Secured Obligations remain outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under the Credit Agreement and no Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment and no Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, the Other Debt Representatives, on behalf of the Required Other Debt Holders; provided, however, that amounts held at such time by the Collateral Trustees on behalf of a Representative and such Representative's Secured Holders in an account of the Corporate Trustee established at the request of such Representative pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof shall be deemed to have been applied to repay the Secured Obligations of such Secured Holders whether or not such amount has been so applied. Unless and until the Collateral Trustees shall have received a notice from the Agent to the effect that at no Secured
8 Obligations remain outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under the Credit Agreement and no Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment and no Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, the Collateral Trustees may assume that the Agent is the Required Representative. After receipt of such notice, the Collateral Trustees may assume that the Other Debt Representatives are the Required Representative(s). "Secured Agreements" means, collectively, the Credit Agreement Documents, the Exchange Note Agreements, the Sul Guarantee, the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, the Other Debt Agreements and each agreement or instrument delivered by the Grantors pursuant thereto (including, without limitation, the Shared Collateral Documents). "Secured Holders" means, at any time, the Lender Parties, the Exchange Note Holders, the Sul Guaranteed Parties, the Lake Worth LOC Bank and Other Debt Holders. "Secured Obligations" means at any time any obligations, whether matured or unmatured, contingent or liquidated, of each Grantor arising out of or evidenced by the Secured Agreements, whether for principal, interest, expenses, premiums, indemnities, fees or other amounts, whether or not such obligations are due and payable at such time; provided, however, that (i) Obligations under the Secured Hedge Agreements, excluding the Banc of America Secured Option, shall only be secured up to an amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate, (ii) Obligations under the Sul Guarantee shall only be secured up to an amount not to exceed $50,000,000 and (iii) Obligations under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit shall only be secured up to an amount not to exceed $5,490,449. "Shared Collateral Documents" means this Agreement, the Security Agreement, the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement and each Successor Collateral Agreement. "S&P" means Standard & Poors, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. "Successor Collateral" means, with respect to each Grantor, any property and assets of such Grantor (or any of its successors and assigns) as such Grantor (or any such successor or any such assign) may, from time to time, upon notice to the Collateral Trustees, pursuant to the Credit Agreement Documents, the Exchange Note Agreements, the Sul Guarantee, the Lake Worth Letter of Credit and the Other Debt Agreements or otherwise, grant to the Collateral Trustees as additional collateral for their benefit and in trust for the equal and ratable benefit of the Representatives, on their behalf and on behalf of the Secured Holders. "Successor Collateral Agreements" means all documents creating, evidencing or relating to any of the Successor Collateral. "Sul Agent" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Sul Credit Agreement" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement.
9 "Sul Guarantee" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. "Sul Guaranteed Parties" has the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statements to this Agreement. SECTION 1.02. Certain References. In this Agreement, the words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. All section, schedule and exhibit references set forth in this Agreement are, unless otherwise specified, references to such section in, or schedule or exhibit to, this Agreement. ARTICLE II CONFIRMATION AND CREATION OF SECURITY INTERESTS SECTION 2.01. Collateral Trust Estate. Each Grantor hereby confirms that, pursuant to the terms of the Security Agreement and the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement, such Grantor has pledged and assigned to the Collateral Trustees for their benefit and in trust for the equal and ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders, and has granted the Collateral Trustees for their benefit and in trust for the equal and ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders, a lien on, and security interest in, the Collateral described therein of such Grantor in order to secure the Secured Obligations. The Borrower, in order to secure the Secured Obligations, hereby further pledges and assigns to the Collateral Trustees for their benefit and in trust for the equal and ratable benefit of the Representatives, on their behalf and on behalf of the Secured Holders, and hereby grants to the Collateral Trustees for their benefit and in trust for the equal and ratable benefit of the Representatives, on their behalf and on behalf of the Secured Holders, a lien on, and security interest in, the following (collectively, together with any Successor Collateral, the "Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral"): (i) the Collateral Account established pursuant to Section 3.01(a) with the Corporate Trustee at its offices at its corporate trust department in the State of Delaware and is, and shall at all times remain, under the sole dominion and control of the Corporate Trustee, all funds held therein and all certificates and instruments, if any, from time to time representing each Collateral Account; (ii) all Cash Equivalents held in the Collateral Account from time to time and all certificates and instruments, if any, from time to time representing or evidencing such Cash Equivalents; (iii) all notes, certificates of deposit, deposit accounts, checks and other instruments from time to time delivered to or otherwise possessed by the Collateral Trustees for or on behalf of the Borrower in substitution for or in addition to any or all of the then existing Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral; (iv) all interest, income, dividends, instruments and other property and assets from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in
10 exchange for any or all of the then existing Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral referred to in clauses (i) through (iii) of this Section 2.01(a); and (v) all proceeds of any and all of the foregoing Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral (including, without limitation, proceeds that constitute property and assets of the types described in clauses (i) through (iv) of this Section 2.01(a)) and, to the extent not otherwise included, all (A) payments under any indemnity, warranty or guaranty payable with respect to any of the foregoing Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral and (B) cash. SECTION 2.02. Security for Secured Obligations. All of the right, title and interest of the Collateral Trustees in and to the Collateral Trust Estate secures the payment of all of the Secured Obligations now or hereafter existing under or in respect of the Secured Agreements and the performance of, and the compliance with, all of the covenants and conditions of this Agreement, the other Shared Collateral Documents and the other Secured Agreements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Collateral Trust Estate secures the payment of all amounts that constitute part of the Secured Obligations and would be owed by each Grantor to the Collateral Trustees, any Representative or any Secured Holder under the Shared Collateral Documents or the other Secured Agreements but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving such Grantor. ARTICLE III COLLATERAL ACCOUNT SECTION 3.01. Collateral Account. (a) Until the date that the Collateral Trustees release all of the Collateral pursuant to Section 8.02(a), a non-interest bearing cash collateral account (the "Collateral Account") for the Representatives and the Secured Holders shall be maintained by the Corporate Trustee at its offices at its corporate trust department in the State of Delaware in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. All moneys that are received by the Collateral Trustees, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, or upon liquidation or otherwise in respect of the Collateral shall be deposited in the Collateral Account and, thereafter, shall be held and applied by the Corporate Trustee all in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. (b) The Corporate Trustee shall, subject to the provisions of Article IV and Article VIII, from time to time (i) invest amounts on deposit in the Collateral Account in Cash Equivalents and (ii) invest interest paid on such Cash Equivalents, and reinvest other proceeds of any such Cash Equivalents that may mature or be sold, in additional Cash Equivalents, in each case at the direction of the Grantors so long as no Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing and at the direction of the Required Representative(s) if a Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Interest and proceeds that are not invested or reinvested in Cash Equivalents as provided in the immediately preceding sentence shall be deposited and held in the Collateral Account. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporate Trustee shall, to the extent possible, invest any funds to be distributed on a Distribution Date in Cash Equivalents that shall mature or become liquid on or prior to such
11 Distribution Date. All Cash Equivalents made in respect of the Collateral Account and all interest and income received thereon and therefrom and the net proceeds realized on the maturity or sale thereof shall be held in the Collateral Account as part of the Collateral Trust Estate pursuant to the terms hereof. (c) The Collateral Account shall be subject to such applicable laws, and such applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and of any other appropriate banking or regulatory authority, as are in effect from time to time. (d) All dividends, interest and other distributions deposited into the Collateral Account pursuant to Section 10(b) of this Agreement or Section 6.2 of the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement shall be released and returned to the applicable Grantor upon notice to the Collateral Trustees from the Required Representative(s) that the Collateral Trust Agreement Default giving rise to such deposit has been cured or waived; provided, that no Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing at such time. ARTICLE IV COLLATERAL TRUST AGREEMENT DEFAULTS; REMEDIES SECTION 4.01. Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice. (a) (x) So long as any Secured Obligations remain outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under the Credit Agreement or any Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment or any Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, the Credit Agreement Defaulted Party shall have the exclusive right if a Collateral Trust Agreement Default under the Credit Agreement shall have occurred and be continuing to give the Collateral Trustees a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice and (y) at any time that no Secured Obligations remain outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under the Credit Agreement and no Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment and no Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, the Other Debt Defaulted Party shall have the exclusive right if a Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing under the Other Debt Agreements, to give the Collateral Trustees a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice, and if a Credit Agreement Defaulted Party or an Other Debt Defaulted Party, as the case may be, gives the Collateral Trustees, with a copy to the Grantors, a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice, stating: (i) the nature of the Collateral Trust Agreement Default; and (ii) the action requested to be taken by the Collateral Trustees with respect to the Collateral and the Shared Collateral Documents (which action may include, without limitation, the institution of any remedies provided by law or this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document), then the Collateral Trustees shall forthwith send a copy of the Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice to each Representative. The Required Representative(s) shall provide the Collateral Trustees with a certificate that shall state whether or not they favor the Collateral Trustees taking such action. If the Required Representative(s) shall not have provided the Collateral Trustees with such certificate within 30 Business Days of receipt of the copy of the
12 Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice, the Required Representative(s) shall be deemed to have not favored the taking of such action. If the Required Representative(s) shall have directed the Collateral Trustees to commence the action set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice then, subject to Section 4.01(b) and the right of the Collateral Trustees to commence such action under the Shared Collateral Documents, the Collateral Trustees shall forthwith undertake such action. The Collateral Trustees shall, subject to Sections 4.01(b), 4.08 and 6.06, follow the directions of the Required Representative(s) with respect to the time, method and place of taking any action requested in a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice. Each Collateral Trustee shall be entitled to assume conclusively that no Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred and is continuing until it receives a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice. For the avoidance of doubt, unless and until the Collateral Trustees shall have received a notice from the Agent to the effect that no Secured Obligations remain outstanding with respect to any Lender Party under the Credit Agreement and no Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment and no Revolving Letter of Credit or Drax Letter of Credit remains outstanding, the Collateral Trustees may presume that the Credit Agreement Defaulted Party has the exclusive right to deliver a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice. After receipt of such notice, the Collateral Trustees may presume that the Other Debt Defaulted Party has the exclusive right to deliver a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice. (b) If the Collateral Trust Agreement Default, which was the basis for the giving of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice, shall be cured or waived in accordance with the terms of the applicable Secured Agreement, the Defaulted Agreement Party which gave such Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice shall promptly notify the Collateral Trustees in writing of such cure or waiver, upon receipt of such written notice of a cure or waiver (i) such Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice shall be deemed withdrawn and (ii) any direction to the Collateral Trustees to take any action in connection with such Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice shall be deemed immediately rescinded. If in connection solely with such withdrawn Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice the Collateral Trustees shall have been directed to take, and shall have commenced taking but shall not have completed, any action, the Collateral Trustees shall promptly terminate any such action which they shall not also have been directed to take in connection with a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice other than that withdrawn. (c) Anything contained herein or under any Shared Collateral Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, upon the occurrence and continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default under the Credit Agreement, the Collateral Trustees shall forebear from exercising any of their rights and remedies hereunder or under any Shared Collateral Document with respect to the Equity Interests of AES EDC Funding II L.L.C. pledged as Collateral under the Security Agreement until the date that occurs 45 days following the date of delivery of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice by a Credit Agreement Defaulted Party; provided that such date shall be extended so long as the collateral agent under the Tranche C Pledge Agreement is actively pursuing its rights and remedies with respect to the Tranche C Collateral under the Tranche C Pledge Agreement and the Collateral Trustees have received evidence satisfactory to them of such pursuit; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 4.01(c) shall prevent the Collateral Trustees from immediately exercising their rights and remedies with
13 respect to all other Collateral as provided for in this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents. SECTION 4.02. Direction by Required Representative(s). As to any matters not expressly provided for under this Agreement or the other Shared Collateral Documents (including, without limitation, matters relating to enforcement and collection of the Secured Obligations), the Collateral Trustees shall not be required to exercise any discretion or to take any action under this Agreement or the other Shared Collateral Documents, or in respect of the Collateral, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting) in accordance with the written instructions of the Required Representative(s) which instructions shall reference Section 6.06 hereof. SECTION 4.03. Right to Initiate Judicial Proceedings, Etc. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, upon the occurrence of and during the continuance of any Collateral Trust Agreement Default and the receipt by the Collateral Trustees of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice that has not been withdrawn pursuant to Section 4.01(b) above, the Corporate Trustee, and if the Corporate Trustee deems necessary or desirable, the Individual Trustee, jointly or individually as the Corporate Trustee may determine, (i) shall have the right and power to institute and maintain such suits and proceedings as it or they, as the case may be, or the Required Representative(s) may deem appropriate to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents and (ii) may either, after entry or without entry, proceed by suit or suits at law or in equity to enforce such rights and to foreclose upon the Collateral and to dispose of, collect or otherwise realize upon, all or any portion of the Collateral Trust Estate under the judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction. (b) If a receiver of the Collateral Trust Estate shall be appointed in judicial proceedings, the Collateral Trustees may be appointed, at its discretion, as such receiver. Notwithstanding the appointment of a receiver, the Collateral Trustees shall be entitled to retain possession and control of all cash held by or deposited with them or their agents or co-trustees pursuant to any provision of this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document. SECTION 4.04. Remedies Not Exclusive. (a) No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Collateral Trustees herein or in the other Shared Collateral Documents is intended to be a limitation exclusive of any other remedy or remedies, but every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy conferred herein or in the other Shared Collateral Documents or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute. (b) No delay or omission of either of the Collateral Trustees to exercise any right, remedy or power accruing upon any Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall impair any such right, remedy or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such Collateral Trust Agreement Default or any acquiescence therein; and every right, power and remedy given by this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document to the Collateral Trustees may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient by the Collateral Trustees. (c) In case either of the Collateral Trustees shall have proceeded to enforce any right, remedy or power under this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document and
14 the proceeding for the enforcement thereof shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason or shall have been determined adversely to such Collateral Trustee, then and in every such case the Grantors, the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and Secured Holders shall, subject to any determination in such proceeding, severally be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder and under such other Shared Collateral Document with respect to the Collateral Trust Estate, the Collateral Account and in all other respects, and thereafter all rights, remedies and powers of such Collateral Trustee shall continue as though no such proceeding had been taken. (d) Each Grantor expressly agrees that all rights of action and rights to assert claims upon or under this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents may be enforced by the Collateral Trustees without the possession of any debt instrument or the production thereof in any trial or other proceeding relative thereto, and any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Collateral Trustees shall be brought in either of their names as Collateral Trustee and any recovery of judgment shall be held as part of the Collateral Trust Estate; provided that nothing in this Section 4.04(d) shall constitute a waiver of any right that the Grantors may have or may hereafter acquire to challenge the amounts outstanding under the Secured Agreements. SECTION 4.05. Waiver of Certain Rights. Subject to the Remedies Limitations, each Grantor, on behalf of itself and all who may claim through or under it, including, without limitation, any and all subsequent Affiliates, creditors, vendees, assignees and lienors, expressly waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any, every and all rights to demand or to have any marshalling of the Collateral Trust Estate upon any enforcement of any Shared Collateral Document, including, without limitation, upon any sale, whether made under any power of sale herein granted or pursuant to judicial proceedings or upon any foreclosure or any enforcement of any Shared Collateral Document and consents and agrees that all the Collateral Trust Estate and any such sale may be offered and sold as an entirety. SECTION 4.06. Limitation on Collateral Trustees' Duties in Respect of Collateral. Beyond the duties set forth in this Agreement, the Collateral Trustees shall not have any duty to the Grantors or the Representatives as to any Collateral in the Collateral Trustees' possession or control or in the possession or control of any agent or nominee of the Collateral Trustees or any income thereon or as to the preservation of rights against prior parties or any other rights pertaining thereto, except that each Collateral Trustee shall be liable for its failure to exercise ordinary care in the handling of moneys and securities and other property actually received by it. SECTION 4.07. Limitation by Law. All rights, remedies and powers provided by this Article IV may be exercised only to the extent that the exercise thereof does not violate any applicable provision of law, and all the provisions of this Article IV are intended to be subject to all applicable mandatory provisions of law which may be controlling and to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Agreement invalid, unenforceable in whole or in part or, if the Representatives elect that this Agreement should be recorded, registered or filed, not entitled to be recorded, registered, or filed under the provisions of any applicable law.
15 SECTION 4.08. Absolute Rights of Secured Holders and Representatives. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or any of the other Shared Collateral Documents, each of the Representatives and each of the Secured Holders has an absolute and unconditional right to receive payment of all of the Secured Obligations owing to such Representative or such Secured Holder, as the case may be, when the same becomes due and payable and at the time and place and otherwise in the manner set forth in the applicable Secured Agreement, and the right of each such Representative and each such Secured Holder to institute proceedings for the enforcement of such payment on or after the date such payment becomes due and to assert its position as a secured creditor in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code in which any Grantor is a debtor, and the obligation of such Grantor to pay all of the Secured Obligations owing to each of the Representatives and each of the Secured Holders at the time and place expressed therein, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Representative or such Secured Holder. In addition, the right of any Secured Holder or any Representative, on behalf of itself or on behalf of any such Secured Holder, to receive payment or security from sources other than the Collateral shall not be, and is not hereby, impaired or affected in any manner. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.08, no Representative and no Secured Holder, on behalf of itself or on behalf of any Secured Holder, shall be obligated to share with any other Representative or any other Secured Holder any proceeds of any collateral, guaranty or right of setoff other than pursuant to, and to the extent expressly required under, this Agreement and the other Secured Agreements; nor shall any Representative's or any Secured Holder's right to receive its ratable share of any amounts maintained in the Collateral Account, if any, or any proceeds of any of the Collateral, or any part thereof, under the terms of this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents be diminished or affected in any way by its right to receive proceeds of any other collateral or right of setoff, or payment upon a guaranty or from any other source. ARTICLE V APPLICATION OF PROCEEDS SECTION 5.01. Application of Proceeds. (a) If, pursuant to the exercise by the Defaulted Agreement Party of any rights and remedies set forth in any Shared Collateral Document, any Collateral is sold or otherwise realized upon by the Collateral Trustees, the proceeds received by the Collateral Trustees in respect of such Collateral shall be deposited in the Collateral Account, and all moneys held by the Corporate Trustee in the Collateral Account, including the Excess Revolving Letter of Credit Collateral and the Excess Drax LOC Collateral, shall, to the extent available for distribution, be distributed by the Corporate Trustee on each date upon which a distribution is made (each, a "Distribution Date") as follows: FIRST, to the payment (in such priority as the Corporate Trustee shall elect, but without duplication) of all reasonable legal fees and expenses and other reasonable costs or expenses or other liabilities of any kind incurred by the Collateral Trustees as secured parties under any Shared Collateral Document or otherwise in connection with any Shared Collateral Document or this Agreement (including, without limitation, any reasonable costs or expenses or liabilities incurred in connection with the sale of any assets covered by any Shared Collateral Document, or in the operation or maintenance of any of the assets covered by any Shared Collateral Document), including the
16 reimbursement to any Representative of any amounts theretofore advanced by such Representative for the payment of such fees, costs and expenses, except only for any such fees, expenses, costs or liabilities incurred by any Collateral Trustee as a result of its gross negligence or willful misconduct in performing or failing to perform any of its duties to the parties hereto expressly set forth herein; provided, however, that nothing herein is intended to relieve the Grantors of their duties to pay such costs, fees, expenses and liabilities otherwise payable to the Collateral Trustees from funds outside of the Collateral Account, as required by this Agreement; SECOND, to the Collateral Trustees (without duplication) in an amount equal to the Collateral Trustees' Fees which are unpaid as of the Distribution Date and to any Representative which has theretofore advanced or paid any such Collateral Trustees' Fees in an amount equal to the amount thereof so advanced or paid by such Representative prior to such Distribution Date; provided, however, that nothing herein is intended to relieve the Grantors of their duties to pay such fees and claims from funds outside of the Collateral Account, as required by this Agreement; THIRD, in accordance with paragraph (b) below, with respect to any proceeds, ratably to the Representatives on behalf of the respective Secured Holders for application to the Secured Obligations of such Secured Holders, or, to be held by such Representative (or by the Corporate Trustee on behalf of such Representative pursuant to Section 5.02 or otherwise) pending such application, until all such Secured Obligations have been paid in full; and FOURTH, any surplus remaining after the payment in full in cash of the Secured Obligations shall, pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.02, be paid to the applicable Grantor, its successors or assigns, or to whomsoever may be lawfully entitled to receive the same, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct. (b) In order to determine the ratable amount to be distributed to each of the Representatives pursuant to clause THIRD above on each Distribution Date, unless otherwise directed in writing by the Required Representative(s), the Corporate Trustee may rely on a certificate of an Authorized Officer of the Borrower setting forth the Secured Obligations (identified by type and amount) outstanding under each Secured Agreement (or with respect to the Sul Guarantee and the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, whether contingent or outstanding Secured Obligations under such Secured Agreements) on such Distribution Date. The ratable portion of the aggregate amount available for distribution hereunder on any Distribution Date which shall be distributed to each Representative on such Distribution Date shall be a fraction, (x) the numerator of which shall be the aggregate amount of Secured Obligations of the Secured Holders represented by such Representative on such Distribution Date and (y) the denominator of which shall be the aggregate amount of Secured Obligations of all the Secured Holders represented by the Representatives on such Distribution Date; provided, however, that, for such purposes, amounts distributable to a Representative on a prior Distribution Date and held on behalf of such Representative and the Secured Holders of such Representative pursuant to Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been applied to the Secured Obligations of the Secured Holders represented by such Representative, regardless of whether such application has occurred.
17 (c) Any amounts to be paid to the Representative of the Lender Parties pursuant to clause THIRD above shall be applied by the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Lender Parties against the Secured Obligations of the Secured Holders represented by the Agent under the Credit Agreement as follows: FIRST, paid to the Agents for any amounts then owing to the Agents pursuant to Section 10.03 of the Credit Agreement or otherwise under the Financing Documents, ratably in accordance with the respective amounts then owing to the Agents; and SECOND, ratably (A) paid to the Bank Parties (or any of their Affiliates) and the Hedge Banks, respectively, for any amounts then owing to them, in their capacities as such, under the Credit Agreement, the Secured Treasury Management Service Agreements, and the Secured Hedge Agreements, respectively, ratably in accordance with such respective amounts then owing to such Bank Parties and the Hedge Banks, provided that, for purposes of this Section 5.01(c), (x) the amount owing to any such Hedge Bank pursuant to any Secured Hedge Agreement to which it is a party (other than any amount therefore accrued and unpaid) shall be deemed to be equal to the "mark to market" value of such Secured Hedge Agreement at such time and (y) the amounts ratably paid to the Hedge Banks, collectively, for any amounts owing to them under any Secured Hedge Agreement (other than the Banc of America Secured Option) shall not exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate and (B) deposited as Revolving L/C Collateral in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account up to an amount equal to 100% of the aggregate Available Amount of all outstanding Revolving Letters of Credit and as Drax LOC Collateral in the Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account up to an amount equal to 100% of the Drax LOC Available Amount. (d) Any amounts to be paid to the Representatives of the Exchange Note Holders, the Sul Guaranteed Parties, the Lake Worth LOC Bank and the Other Debt Holders pursuant to clause THIRD above shall be applied by the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Exchange Note Holders, the Sul Guaranteed Parties, the Lake Worth LOC Bank and the Other Debt Holders as follows: FIRST, paid to the Representatives of the Exchange Note Holders, the Sul Guaranteed Parties, the Lake Worth LOC Bank and the Other Debt Holders for any amounts then owing to them under the Exchange Note Agreements, the Sul Guarantee, the Lake Worth Letter of Credit and the Other Debt Agreements ratably in accordance with the respective amounts then owing to such Representatives; and SECOND, ratably (A) paid to the Exchange Note Holders and the Other Debt Holders for any amounts then owing to them under the Exchange Note Indenture and the Other Debt Agreements, (B) upon the instruction of the Sul Agent, either (x) paid to the Sul Guaranteed Parties for any amounts then owing to them under the Sul Guarantee or (y) deposited as cash collateral in an account designated by the Sul Agent in an amount up to $50,000,000 to secure the Obligations of the Borrower under the Sul Guarantee and (C) upon the instruction of the Lake Worth LOC Bank, either (x) paid to the Lake Worth LOC Bank for any amounts then owing to them under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit or (y) deposited as cash collateral in an account designated by the Lake Worth LOC Bank in
18 an amount up to $5,490,449 to secure the Obligations of Lake Worth under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit. SECTION 5.02. Application of Withheld Amounts. If on any Distribution Date any amounts on deposit to the Collateral Account are distributable pursuant to Section 5.01 to any Representative, and if such Representative shall have given notice to the Collateral Trustees on or prior to such Distribution Date that all or a portion of such proceeds which are otherwise distributable to such Representative pursuant to Section 5.01 shall be held by the Collateral Trustees on behalf of such Representative for the benefit of the Secured Holders of such Representative, then the Collateral Trustees shall hold such amount in a separate non-interest bearing cash collateral account of the Corporate Trustee for the benefit of such Representative and such Secured Holders, until such time as such Representative shall deliver a written request for the delivery thereof from such account to such Representative in accordance with Section 5.01(c) or 5.01(d), as applicable. If thereafter the Secured Obligations of the Secured Holders represented by any such Representative shall have been repaid in full in cash on any date, then (a) upon the written request of the Borrower certifying as to such payment in full, and (b) after delivery of such notice by the Collateral Trustees to such Representative, the Collateral Trustees shall not have received a written notice of objection from such Representative within 30 days of such Representative's receipt of such notice, promptly following such 30th day (or the earlier receipt by the Collateral Trustees of the written consent of such Representative), any amounts held on account for such Representative pursuant to this Section 5.02 shall be again deposited by the Collateral Trustee to the Collateral Account and thereafter distributed as provided in Section 5.01. If the Borrower shall have failed to deliver to the Collateral Trustees the certificate provided for in clause (a) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Collateral Trustees may request payment instructions from the Required Representative(s) and the Collateral Trustees shall not be required to make any distributions until such instructions are received. The Corporate Trustee shall invest amounts on deposit to any such account in such Cash Equivalents as the applicable Representative may direct from time to time. SECTION 5.03. Release of Amounts in Collateral Account. Amounts distributable to a Representative on any Distribution Date pursuant to Section 5.01 shall be paid to such Representative for the benefit of such Representative and its Secured Holders by the Corporate Trustee (or deposited to an account for the benefit of such Representative and its Secured Holders pursuant to Section 5.02) upon receipt by the Corporate Trustee of a written certificate of such Representative setting forth appropriate payments instructions for such Representative. If no such notice is delivered by a Representative within 10 Business Days thereafter, the Corporate Trustee shall deposit amounts otherwise distributable to such Representative to an account for the benefit of such Representative and its Secured Holders pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof. SECTION 5.04. Distribution Date. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, any amounts on deposit in the Collateral Account shall, at the written request of the Required Representative(s) (with a copy to the Grantors) be distributed as provided in this Article V.
19 ARTICLE VI AGREEMENTS WITH THE COLLATERAL TRUSTEE SECTION 6.01. Delivery of Agreements. On the Effective Date, the Borrower shall deliver to the Collateral Trustees a true and complete copy of each Secured Agreement, including each Shared Collateral Document, as in effect on the Effective Date. The Borrower agrees that, promptly upon the execution thereof, the Borrower will deliver to the Collateral Trustees a true and complete copy of any and all Shared Collateral Documents and other Secured Agreements entered into subsequent to the date hereof and a true and complete copy of any and all amendments, modifications or supplements to any of the foregoing. SECTION 6.02. Information as to Representatives. (a) The Borrower agrees that it shall deliver to the Collateral Trustees from time to time upon the request of the Collateral Trustees a list setting forth, for each Secured Agreement, (i) the aggregate principal amount outstanding thereunder, (ii) the accrued and unpaid interest thereunder, (iii) the accrued and unpaid fees (if any) thereunder, (iv) the names of the Representatives and of the Secured Holders (to the extent known to the Borrower) thereunder, and all other unpaid amounts thereunder known to the Borrower, owing to each such Representative, for its own account and on behalf of such Secured Holders and (v) such other information regarding the Representatives, such Secured Holders and the Secured Agreements as the Collateral Trustees may reasonably request. In addition, the Borrower shall deliver to the Collateral Trustees, each time a distribution from the Collateral Trust Estate or, the Collateral Account is to be made pursuant to the terms hereof, not later than two Business Days after receipt of a copy of the applicable distribution request delivered by the Required Representative(s) pursuant to Section 5.04 hereof, a certificate of an Authorized Officer of the Borrower, setting forth the amounts to be distributed and the Persons to whom such distributions are to be made, including appropriate payment instructions therefor (the "Payment Information"), provided that if any distribution is directed to be made to any Representative, if such Representative shall have notified the Collateral Trustees in writing that such Representative is unable to accept such distribution, such distribution shall be made instead to an account established pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof for the benefit of such Representative and its Secured Holders. The Borrower will furnish to the Collateral Trustees, with a copy to each Representative, on the Effective Date a list setting forth the name and address of each Representative and each Person to whom notices must be sent under the Secured Agreements and the Borrower agrees to furnish promptly to the Collateral Trustees any changes or additions to such list of which the Borrower is made aware. Unless otherwise specified herein, the Collateral Trustees may for all purposes hereunder, rely on such information given by the Borrower unless (i) the Collateral Trustees shall have actual knowledge of an inaccuracy or (ii) any Representative shall provide contrary information in writing with respect to such Representative in which case, unless such Representative and the Borrower can reach an agreement on such issue within a period of 10 days, the Collateral Trustees shall appoint an independent arbitrator (who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Borrower and such Representative) to resolve the dispute (at the expense of the Borrower). Upon the request of the Collateral Trustees, the Agent and the other Representatives shall deliver the information provided for in this Section 6.02.
20 (b) If the Borrower shall not have delivered the Payment Information to the Collateral Trustees at least two Business days prior to the applicable Distribution Date, the Collateral Trustees shall request the Payment Information from the Agent and the other Representatives, and if after such request the Collateral Trustees shall not have received the Payment Information from any of the Borrower, the Agent or the other Representatives, the Collateral Trustees shall not be required to take any action under clause THIRD of Section 5.01(a) until it receives such Payment Information. SECTION 6.03. Compensation and Expenses. Each Grantor agrees to pay to the Collateral Trustees and any co-trustees or successor trustees appointed hereunder, from time to time upon demand, (a) such compensation for their services hereunder and under the other Shared Collateral Documents and for administering the other Collateral Trust Estate, the Collateral Account and any account or accounts established pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof as set forth on the fee schedule attached hereto as Schedule 1, as such Schedule 1 may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified by the written agreement of the Grantors and the Collateral Trustees from time to time and (b) all the reasonable fees, costs and expenses incurred by any of them (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) (i) arising in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, modification and termination of this Agreement and each other Shared Collateral Document or the enforcement of any of the provisions hereof or thereof or (ii) incurred or required to be advanced in connection with the administration of the Collateral Trust Estate, the Collateral Account, any account or accounts established pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof, the sale or other disposition of Collateral pursuant to any Shared Collateral Document and the preservation, protection or defense of their rights under this Agreement and in and to the Collateral, the Collateral Account, any account or accounts established pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof and the Collateral Trust Estate. As security for such payment, the Collateral Trustees shall have a prior lien upon all Collateral and other property and funds held or collected by the Collateral Trustees as part of the Collateral Trust Estate. Each Grantor's obligation under this Section 6.03 shall survive the termination of this Agreement. SECTION 6.04. Stamp and Other Similar Taxes. Each Grantor agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Collateral Trustees, each Representative and each Secured Holder from any present or future claim for liability for any stamp or other similar tax and any penalties or interest with respect thereto, which may be assessed, levied or collected by any jurisdiction in connection with this Agreement, any Shared Collateral Document, the Collateral Trust Estate, the Collateral Account, any account or accounts established pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof or any Collateral. The obligations of each Grantor under this Section 6.04 shall survive the termination of this Agreement. SECTION 6.05. Filing Fees, Excise Taxes, Etc. Each Grantor agrees to pay or to reimburse the Collateral Trustees for any and all amounts in respect of all reasonable search, filing, recording and registration fees, taxes, excise taxes and other similar imposts which may be payable or determined to be payable in respect of the execution, delivery, performance and enforcement of this Agreement and each other Shared Collateral Document. The obligations of each Grantor under this Section 6.05 shall survive the termination of this Agreement. SECTION 6.06. Indemnification. (a) Each Grantor agrees to pay, indemnify, and hold harmless the Collateral Trustees and each of the agents of either thereof from and against
21 any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, the costs and expenses of defending any claim against any of them) with respect to the execution, delivery, enforcement, performance and administration of this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents unless and to the extent arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such of the Collateral Trustees or such of the agents thereof as are seeking indemnification or any failure of any Collateral Trustee or any such agent to exercise ordinary care in the handling of moneys and securities and other property actually received by any such Collateral Trustee or any such agent. As security for such payment, any such Collateral Trustee shall have a prior lien upon all Collateral and other property and funds held or collected by the Collateral Trustees as part of the Collateral Trust Estate. (b) In any suit, proceeding or action brought by the Collateral Trustees under or with respect to any Shared Collateral Document or the Collateral for any amount owing thereunder, or to enforce any provisions thereof, each Grantor will save, indemnify and hold harmless the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the Secured Holders from and against all expense, loss or damage suffered by reason of any defense, set-off, counterclaim, recoupment or reduction of liability whatsoever of the obligee thereunder (unless and to the extent that such expense, loss or damage is caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the such Collateral Trustee or the failure of any Collateral Trustee to exercise ordinary care in the handling of moneys and securities and other property actually received by such Collateral Trustee), arising out of a breach by such Grantor of any obligation thereunder or arising out of any other agreement, indebtedness or liability at any time owing to or in favor of such obligee or its successors from such Grantor and all such obligations of such Grantor shall be and remain enforceable against and only against such Grantor and shall not be enforceable against the Collateral Trustees, any Representative or any Secured Holder. The agreements in this Section 6.06 shall survive the termination of this Agreement. SECTION 6.07. Further Assurances. (a) Each Grantor agrees, from time to time, at its own expense to execute, acknowledge, deliver, record, re-record, file, re-file, register and re-register, and cause its Subsidiaries, if any, to promptly execute, acknowledge, deliver, record, re-record, file, re-file, register and re-register any and all such further acts, financing statements and continuations thereof, notices of assignment, transfers, certificates, assurances and other instruments as may be reasonably necessary or desirable, or as any Collateral Trustee, any Representative, any Secured Holder through its Representative, may reasonably request from time to time in order (i) to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Agreement, (ii) to subject to the liens and security interests created by any of the Shared Collateral Documents any of the properties, rights or interests of such Grantor covered or now or hereafter intended to be covered by any of the Shared Collateral Documents, (iii) to perfect and maintain the validity, effectiveness and priority of any of the Shared Collateral Documents and the liens and security interests intended to be created thereby, (iv) to better assure, convey, grant, assign, transfer, preserve, protect and confirm unto the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the Secured Holders the rights granted or now or hereafter intended to be granted to the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the Secured Holders under any Shared Collateral Document or under any other instrument executed in connection with any Shared Collateral Document to which it is or may become a party, and (v) to enable the Collateral Trustees to exercise and enforce their rights and remedies hereunder and under each other Shared Collateral Document with respect to
22 any Collateral; provided, however, that this Section 6.07 shall not be construed to require any Grantor to grant any interest in Collateral other than pursuant to this Agreement, the Credit Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Grantor will take any such action required to be taken by it pursuant to any Shared Collateral Document. (b) Each Grantor hereby authorizes the Collateral Trustees to file one or more financing or continuation statements relative to all or any part of the Collateral, and amendments thereto to correct the name and address of such Grantor or the Collateral Trustees or to correct the description of the "Collateral" contained in any of the Shared Collateral Documents to be consistent with the description of the Collateral contained in such Shared Collateral Document, in each case without the signature of such Grantor where permitted by law and which shall be filed by the Collateral Trustees upon the receipt of an instruction letter from the Required Representatives requesting the taking of such action and attaching the form of financing statement. A photocopy or other reproduction of this Agreement, any other Shared Collateral Document or any financing statement covering the Collateral or any part thereof shall be sufficient as a financing statement where permitted by law. (c) The Grantors will furnish such information about the Collateral as the Collateral Trustees may reasonably request from time to time. ARTICLE VII THE COLLATERAL TRUSTEE SECTION 7.01. Declaration of Trust. Each of the Corporate Trustee and the Individual Trustee, for itself and its successors, hereby accepts the trusts created by this Agreement upon the terms and conditions hereof, including those contained in this Article VII. Further, each of the Corporate Trustee and the Individual Trustee, for itself and its successors, does hereby declare that it will hold all of the estate, right, title and interest in (a) the Collateral Trust Estate and the Collateral Account for the equal and ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders as provided herein, and (b) each account as may be established pursuant to Section 5.02 at the request of a Representative upon the trust herein set forth and for the benefit of such Representative on behalf of its applicable Secured Holders as provided herein. SECTION 7.02. Exculpatory Provisions. (a) The Collateral Trustees shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for the correctness of any recitals, statements, representations or warranties contained herein or in the other Shared Collateral Documents, all of which are made solely by the Grantors party thereto. The Collateral Trustees make no representations as to the value or condition of the Collateral Trust Estate, the Collateral Account or any part thereof, or as to the title of the Grantors thereto or as to the security afforded by this Agreement or the other Shared Collateral Documents or as to the validity, execution (except its own execution), enforceability, legality or sufficiency of this Agreement, any other Shared Collateral Document or any Secured Agreement, and the Collateral Trustees shall incur no liability or responsibility in respect of any such matters. The Collateral Trustees shall not be responsible for insuring the Collateral Trust Estate or for the payment of taxes, charges, assessments or liens upon the Collateral Trust Estate or otherwise as to the maintenance of the
23 Collateral Trust Estate or the Collateral Account, except that in any event that any Collateral Trustee enters into possession of a part or all of the Collateral Trust Estate or the Collateral Account, such Collateral Trustee, shall preserve the part in its possession. (b) The Collateral Trustees shall not be required to ascertain or inquire as to the performance by the Grantors of any of the covenants or agreements contained herein, in any other Shared Collateral Document or in any Secured Agreement. SECTION 7.03. Delegation of Duties. The Collateral Trustees may execute any of the trusts or powers hereof and perform any duty hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact (which shall not include officers and employees of any Grantor or any Affiliate of any Grantor). The Collateral Trustees shall be entitled to rely upon advice of reasonably selected counsel and other professionals concerning all matters pertaining to such trusts, powers and duties. The Collateral Trustees shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agents or attorneys-in-fact reasonably selected by them in good faith. SECTION 7.04. Reliance by Collateral Trustees. (a) Whenever in the administration of the trusts of this Agreement or, pursuant to any other Shared Collateral Document, the Collateral Trustees shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established in connection with the taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder by the Collateral Trustees unless otherwise provided herein, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may be deemed to be conclusively proved or established by a certificate of an Authorized Officer of the Borrower delivered to the Collateral Trustees and the Representatives, and such certificate shall constitute a full warranty to the Collateral Trustees for any action taken, suffered or omitted in reliance thereon unless (i) the Collateral Trustees shall have actual knowledge of an inaccuracy therein or (ii) the Required Representative(s) shall provide contrary information in writing with respect to such matter within 10 days of receipt thereof by such Required Representative(s), in which case unless such Required Representative(s) and the Grantors can reach agreement on such issue within a period of 10 days, the Collateral Trustees shall appoint, at the expense of the Grantors, an independent arbitrator (who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Grantors and such Required Representative(s)) to resolve the dispute. (b) The Collateral Trustees may consult with independent counsel, independent public accountants and other experts selected by it (excluding, counsel to or any employee of any Grantor or any Affiliate of any Grantor) and any opinion of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered by them hereunder in accordance therewith unless such Collateral Trustee has actual knowledge of a reason to question the validity or accuracy of such opinion or of any assumptions expressed therein as the basis for such opinion. The Collateral Trustees shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning the administration of the Collateral Trust Estate or the Collateral Account or any account established pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof from any court of competent jurisdiction. (c) The Collateral Trustees may rely, and shall be fully protected in acting, upon any resolution, statement, certificate, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond or other paper or document which they reasonably believe to be genuine and to have
24 been signed or presented by the proper party or parties or, in the case of telecopies and telexes, to have been sent by the proper party or parties. In the absence of its gross negligence or willful misconduct, each Collateral Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any notices, certificates or opinions furnished to such Collateral Trustee that conform to the requirements of this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document. SECTION 7.05. Limitations on Duties of the Trustees. (a) The Collateral Trustees undertake to perform only the duties expressly set forth herein and no implied covenant or obligation shall be read into this Agreement against the Collateral Trustees. (b) The Collateral Trustees may exercise the rights and powers granted to them by this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents, but only pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the Collateral Trustees shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted by them in accordance with the direction of the Required Representative(s). (c) Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, the Collateral Trustees shall not be under any obligation to take any action which is discretionary with the Collateral Trustees under the provisions hereof or under any other Shared Collateral Document except upon the written request of the Required Representative(s). The Collateral Trustees shall make available for inspection and copying by each Representative each certificate or other paper furnished to the Collateral Trustees by the Grantors, by any Representative, or by any other Person, under or in respect of this Agreement, any other Shared Collateral Document or any of the Collateral Trust Estate. (d) The Collateral Trustees shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in them by this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document at the request or direction of any Representatives pursuant to this Agreement, unless such Representatives shall have offered to the Collateral Trustees security or indemnity satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by them in compliance with such request or direction. (e) Each Secured Holder (other than the Agents and any other Representative, in its capacity as a "representative") shall, ratably (determined as provided below) indemnify the Collateral Trustees, each of their respective Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, agents and employees of any of them (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower) against any cost, expense (including counsel fees and disbursements), claim, demand, action, loss or liability (except such as result from such indemnitees' gross negligence or willful misconduct) (an "Indemnified Event") that such indemnitees may suffer or incur in connection with its exercise of rights and remedies with respect to the Account Collateral and the Securities Accounts. For purposes of this Section 7.05(e), each Secured Holder's ratable share shall be based on the amounts owing to each such Secured Holder under its respective Secured Agreement at the time the Indemnified Event arose. (f) The Obligations of the Collateral Trustees hereunder are several and not joint.
25 SECTION 7.06. Moneys to Be Held in Trust. All moneys received by the Corporate Trustee under or pursuant to any provision of this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document shall be segregated and held in trust for the purposes for which they were paid or are held and the Corporate Trustee shall exercise ordinary care in the handling of any such moneys actually received by it. The Individual Trustee shall promptly turn over to the Corporate Trustee any Collateral, or any part thereof, delivered to or received by the Individual Trustee. SECTION 7.07. Resignation and Removal of Collateral Trustees. (a) Each or both of the Collateral Trustees may at any time, by giving 30 days' prior written notice to the Grantors and the Representatives, resign and be discharged of their responsibilities hereby created, such resignation to become effective upon the appointment of a successor trustee or trustees by the Required Representative(s), the acceptance of such appointment by such successor trustee or trustees and, unless a Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred and is continuing, the consent to the appointment of such successor trustee or trustees by the Grantors. If a Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred, the Grantors' consent to any such resignation shall not be required. The Collateral Trustees shall be entitled to their fees and expenses accrued to the date of the resignation becoming effective. Either or both of the Collateral Trustees may be removed at any time (with or without cause) and a successor trustee or trustees appointed by the affirmative vote of the Required Representative(s), subject to, unless a Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred and is continuing, the consent of the Grantors, provided that the Collateral Trustees or either of them shall be entitled to their fees and expenses accrued to the date of removal. If either or both of the Collateral Trustees resigns or is removed as provided in this Section 7.07 the consent to the appointment of a successor trustee or trustees shall not be unreasonably withheld and shall be deemed to have been given if the Grantors shall not have reasonably objected to any proposed successor trustee or trustees within five Business Days of receipt of notice of the identity thereof from the Representatives. If no successor trustee or trustees shall be appointed and approved within 30 days from the date of the giving of the aforesaid notice of resignation or within 30 days from the date of such vote for removal, the Collateral Trustees, shall, or the Required Representative(s) may, apply to any court of competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor trustee or trustees to act until such time, if any, as a successor trustee or trustees shall have been appointed as above provided. Any successor trustee or trustees so appointed by such court shall immediately and without further act be superseded by any successor trustee or trustees approved by the Required Representative(s) as above provided. (b) If at any time either or both of the Collateral Trustees shall become incapable of acting, or if at any time a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Collateral Trustees for any other cause, a successor trustee or trustees shall be promptly appointed by the Required Representative(s), subject to, unless a Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred and is continuing, the consent of the Grantors, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, and the powers, duties, authority and title of the predecessor trustee or trustees terminated and cancelled without procuring the resignation of such predecessor trustee or trustees, and without any formality (except as may be required by applicable law) other than appointment and designation of a successor trustee or trustees in writing, duly acknowledged, delivered to the predecessor trustee or trustees and the Grantors and filed for record in each public office, if any, in which this Agreement is required to be filed.
26 (c) The appointment and designation referred to in Section 7.07(b) shall, after any required filing, be full evidence of the right and authority to make the same and of all the facts therein recited, and this Agreement shall vest in such successor trustee or trustees, without any further act, deed or conveyance, all of the estate and title of its predecessor, and upon such filing for record the successor trustee or trustees shall become fully vested with all the estates, properties, rights, powers, trusts, duties, authority and title of its predecessor; but such predecessor shall, nevertheless, on the written request of the Required Representative(s), the Grantors or its successor trustee or trustees, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor all the estates, properties, rights, powers, trusts, duties, authority and title of such predecessor hereunder and shall deliver all securities and moneys held by it or them to such successor trustee or trustees. Should any deed, conveyance or other instrument in writing from the Grantors be required by any successor trustee or trustees for more fully and certainly vesting in such successor trustee or trustees the estates, properties, rights, powers, trusts, duties, authority and title vested or intended to be vested in the predecessor trustee or trustees, any and all such deeds, conveyances and other instruments in writing shall, on request of such successor trustee or trustees, be executed, acknowledged and delivered by the Grantors. (d) Any required filing for record of the instrument appointing a successor trustee or trustees as hereinabove provided shall be at the expense of the Grantors. The resignation of any trustee or trustees and the instrument removing any trustee or trustees, together with all other instruments, deeds and conveyances provided for in this Article VII shall, if permitted by law, be forthwith recorded, registered and filed by and at the expense of the Grantors, wherever this Agreement is recorded, registered and filed. SECTION 7.08. Status of Successors to Trustee. Every successor to the Corporate Trustee appointed pursuant to Section 7.07 shall be a bank or trust company in good standing and having power so to act, incorporated under the laws of the United States or any State thereof or the District of Columbia and having its principal corporate trust office within the State of Delaware, or another state acceptable to the Required Representative(s), and shall also have capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than $100,000,000, if there be such an institution with such capital, surplus and undivided profits willing, qualified and able to accept the trust upon reasonable or customary terms. Any successor to the Individual Trustee appointed pursuant to Section 7.07 shall be an individual residing in the State of Delaware, the State of New York or another state of the United States acceptable to the Required Representative(s). SECTION 7.09. Merger of the Corporate Trustee. Any corporation into which the Corporate Trustee may be merged, or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger or consolidation to which the Corporate Trustee shall be a party, shall be the Corporate Trustee under this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the parties hereto. SECTION 7.10. Powers of Individual Trustee. The Individual Trustee has been joined as a party hereunder so that if, by any present or future applicable law in any jurisdiction in which it may be necessary to perform any act in the execution or enforcement of the trusts hereby created, the Corporate Trustee may be incompetent, unqualified or unable to act as a Collateral Trustee, then all of the acts required to be performed in such jurisdiction, in the execution or enforcement of the trusts hereby created, shall and will be performed by the
27 Individual Trustee, acting alone. Notwithstanding any other term or provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Corporate Trustee alone shall have and exercise the rights and powers granted herein and shall be solely charged with the performance of the duties herein declared on the part of the Collateral Trustees to be had and exercised or to be performed without any action taken by the Individual Trustee; provided, however, that if the Corporate Trustee or the Required Representative(s) deem it necessary or desirable for the Individual Trustee to act in a particular jurisdiction, the Individual Trustee shall have and exercise the rights and powers granted herein (but no greater powers) and shall be charged with the performance of the duties herein declared on the part of the Collateral Trustees to be had and exercised or to be performed, but only in such particular jurisdiction. SECTION 7.11. Additional Co-Trustees; Separate Trustees. (a) If at any time or times it shall be necessary or prudent in order to conform to any law of any jurisdiction in which any of the Collateral shall be located, or the Collateral Trustees shall be advised by counsel satisfactory to them that it is so necessary or prudent in the interest of the Representatives on behalf of the Secured Holders, or the Required Representative shall in writing so request by notice to the Collateral Trustees and the Grantors, or the Collateral Trustees shall deem it desirable for their own protection in the performance of their duties hereunder, or the Grantors shall in writing so request by notice to the Collateral Trustees with the consent of the Required Representative, the Collateral Trustees and the Grantors shall execute and deliver all instruments and agreements necessary or proper to constitute another bank or trust company, or one or more persons approved by the Collateral Trustees, the Grantors and the Required Representative, either to act as co-trustee or co-trustees of all or any of the Collateral, jointly with the Collateral Trustees originally named herein or any successor, or to act as separate trustee of any such property. In the event the Grantors shall not have joined in the execution of such instruments and agreements within 10 days after the receipt of a written request from the Collateral Trustees so to do, or in case a Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Collateral Trustees may act under the foregoing provisions of this Section 7.11 without the concurrence of the Grantors (but with the concurrence of the Required Representative), and the Grantors hereby appoint the Collateral Trustees as their agents and attorneys to act for them under the foregoing provisions of this Section 7.11 in either of such contingencies. (b) Any separate trustee and any co-trustee (other than any trustee which may be appointed as successor to the Corporate Trustee or the Individual Trustee pursuant to Section 7.07) shall, to the extent permitted by law, be appointed and act and be such, subject to the following provisions and conditions, namely: (i) all rights, powers, duties and obligations conferred upon the trustees in respect of the custody, control and management of moneys, papers or securities shall be exercised solely by the Collateral Trustees originally named herein or their successors appointed pursuant to Section 7.07; (ii) all rights, powers, duties and obligations conferred or imposed upon the Collateral Trustees hereunder shall be conferred or imposed and exercised or performed by the Collateral Trustees and such separate trustee or co-trustee, jointly, as shall be provided in the instrument appointing such separate trustee or co-trustee, except to the extent that under any law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act or acts are to be
28 performed the Collateral Trustees shall be incompetent or unqualified to perform such act or acts, in which event such rights, powers, duties and obligations shall be exercised and performed by such separate trustee or co-trustee; (iii) no power given hereby to, or which it is provided hereby may be exercised by, any such co-trustee or separate trustee, shall be exercised hereunder by such co-trustee or separate trustee, except jointly with, or with the consent in writing of, the Collateral Trustees, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding; (iv) no trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by reason of any act or omission of any other trustee hereunder; and (v) the Grantors and the Collateral Trustees, at any time, by an instrument in writing, executed by them jointly, may accept the resignation of or remove any such separate trustee, and in that case, by an instrument in writing executed by the Grantors and the Collateral Trustees jointly, may appoint a successor (who shall be acceptable to the Required Representative(s)) to such a separate trustee or co-trustee, as the case may be, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding. In the event that the Grantors shall not have joined in the execution of any such instrument within 10 days after the receipt of a written request from the Collateral Trustees so to do, or in case a Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Collateral Trustees shall have the power to accept the resignation of or remove any such separate trustee or co-trustee and to appoint (with the consent of the Required Representative(s)) a successor without the concurrence of the Grantors and the Grantors hereby appoint the Collateral Trustees their agents and attorneys to act for them in such connection in either of such contingencies. In the event that the Collateral Trustees shall have appointed a separate trustee or co-trustee or as above provided, they may at any time, by an instrument in writing, accept the resignation of or remove any such separate trustee, the successor to any such separate trustee to be appointed by the Grantors and the Collateral Trustees, or by the Collateral Trustees alone, as hereinbefore provided in this Section 7.11. SECTION 7.12. Trustees Appointed Attorneys-in-Fact. Each Grantor hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints the Collateral Trustees and any officer or agent thereof, with full power of substitution, as its true and lawful attorneys-in-fact with full power and authority in the name of such Grantor or their own name and in the place and stead of such Grantor and in the name of such Grantor, from time to time at the direction of the Required Representative(s), to take any action and to execute any instrument which the same may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement, including, without limitation, to receive, endorse and collect all instruments made payable to such Grantor representing any dividend, interest payment or other distribution in respect of the Collateral or any part thereof and to give full discharge for the same in accordance with the terms of the Shared Collateral Documents. Each Grantor acknowledges and agrees that the foregoing power of attorney is coupled with an interest and may not be revoked or modified except with the consent of the Collateral Trustees or as otherwise provided herein.
29 SECTION 7.13. Ordinary Care. The Collateral Trustees shall be deemed to have exercised ordinary care in the custody and preservation of the Collateral in their possession if the Collateral is accorded treatment substantially equal to that which the Collateral Trustees accord their own property, it being understood that the Collateral Trustees shall not have any responsibility for (i) ascertaining or taking action with respect to calls, conversions, exchanges, maturities, tenders or other matters relative to any Collateral, whether or not the Collateral Trustees have or are deemed to have knowledge of such matters, or (ii) taking any necessary steps to preserve rights against any parties with respect to any Collateral. ARTICLE VIII RELEASE OF COLLATERAL SECTION 8.01. Partial Release of Collateral. (a) Any Grantor may, from time to time so long as no Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing, request the release of the lien and security interest of the Shared Collateral Documents in any portion of the Collateral of such Grantor proposed to be sold or otherwise disposed of by such Grantor to any other Person, upon notice to the Collateral Trustees from an Authorized Officer of the Borrower (a "Notice of Partial Release"), which Notice of Partial Release shall be delivered to the other Grantors, the Collateral Trustees and the Representatives at least twenty Business Days prior to the date of the proposed sale or other disposition of such Collateral (unless a shorter period of time is acceptable to the Collateral Trustees and the Required Representative(s)) and shall (i) specify the Collateral to be so sold or otherwise disposed of and the proposed date of such sale or other disposition, and (ii) certify that the sale or other disposition of such Collateral is in compliance with the terms of the Applicable Agreements, and the Grantors are not, and after giving effect to such release, would not be, in default under the Applicable Agreements. If a Notice of Partial Release is delivered to the Collateral Trustees in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence and the Required Representative(s), shall not have objected in writing thereto prior to the date of the proposed release, the security interest in such Collateral shall automatically, without further action, be released and the Collateral Trustees shall execute and deliver to the Grantors, on the date of the proposed release (or as promptly thereafter as possible), a release or releases (including, without limitation, Uniform Commercial Code release statements and instruments of satisfaction, discharge and/or reconveyance) in recordable form as to the Collateral specified in such Notice of Partial Release from the liens, security interests, conveyances and assignments evidenced by the Shared Collateral Documents, which release shall state that it is effective as of the date of such disposition; provided, however, that, if prior to the time that the Collateral Trustees deliver a release pursuant to this Section 8.01(a), the Collateral Trustees shall have received either (A) a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice that shall not have been withdrawn prior to such time and the Required Representative(s) shall have directed the Collateral Trustees either not to deliver such a release or not to deliver releases generally or (B) a written objection from the Required Representative(s) stating that such sale or other disposition is not permitted under the Applicable Agreement, then, in either case, the
30 Collateral Trustees shall so notify the Grantors and shall not sign any release or releases in connection with such disposition. (b) If, at any time, the Collateral Trustees shall receive a written notice from an Authorized Officer of the Borrower, (i) stating that any promissory note or other similar or related instrument evidencing obligations payable to such Grantor and included in the Collateral has been paid in full in accordance with its terms (or will be so paid concurrently with the surrender thereof), and (ii) identifying such note or other instrument in reasonable detail (including, without limitation, by its date of issuance, the name of its payee and the principal amount thereof), then the Collateral Trustees shall promptly deliver a copy of each such notice to the other Grantors, each Representative and, unless the Required Representative(s) shall have disputed the accuracy of such notice within ten Business Days of the delivery of such notice, the Collateral Trustees shall promptly deliver such note or other instrument to the Borrower, and promptly execute and deliver a release or releases (including, without limitation, Uniform Commercial Code release statements) in recordable form as to any such note or other instrument from the liens, security interests, conveyances and assignments evidenced by the Shared Collateral Documents, which release shall state that it is effective as of the date of its delivery. SECTION 8.02. Full Release of Collateral Upon Satisfaction of Certain Secured Obligations. (a) The Collateral Trustees shall promptly release, in accordance with Section 8.03, all the Collateral upon the latest of the (i) cash payment in full of all Secured Obligations arising under the Credit Agreement, the Notes, the Banc of America Secured Option, the Exchange Note Agreements, the Sul Guarantee, the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, the Other Debt Agreements and each other agreement or instrument delivered by the Grantors pursuant thereto, (ii) termination of the Exchange Note Indenture, (iii) the termination of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments and (iv) the termination or expiration of all Revolving Letters of Credit and the Drax Letter of Credit. (b) In furtherance of the undertaking set forth above in Section 8.02(a), the Collateral Trustees shall, upon the request of the Grantors accompanied by a certificate of an Authorized Officer of each Grantor, upon which the Collateral Trustees may conclusively rely without independent verification, to the effect that all Secured Obligations under the Secured Agreements referred to in clause (i) of the preceding subsection (a) have been, or will, concurrently with the release of the Collateral be, paid in full in cash and all Revolving Credit Loan Commitments, all Revolving Letters of Credit and the Drax Letter of Credit have been terminated (and if such Secured Obligations have not previously been so paid, describing the source(s) of funds for such repayment), deliver a notice by registered mail to each of the Representatives containing the following: (i) a statement as to the total amount of moneys in the Collateral Account and any account which has been established at the request of any Representative pursuant to Section 5.02; and (ii) a statement that the Collateral Trustees will release such Collateral only upon receipt from the Representatives of instructions to do so.
31 If the Collateral Trustees receive a direction from the Representatives to so release such Collateral (and the Collateral Trustees shall not have received any notice that a Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred or is continuing), then the Collateral Trustees shall release all the Collateral from the security interest in their favor and deliver to the Grantors all Collateral in the possession of the Collateral Trustees as specified in such instruction; provided, however, that the Grantors shall have made adequate provision for the expenses of the Collateral Trustees associated with such release of Collateral and all other expenses of, or payable to, the Collateral Trustees hereunder. If the Collateral Trustees shall not have received an instruction so to release such Collateral (or shall have received a Collateral Trust Agreement Default Notice which has not been withdrawn), the Collateral Trustees shall not release the Collateral unless and until the Representatives or a court of competent jurisdiction so directs the Collateral Trustees pursuant to a final, non-appealable judgment (including a judgment that becomes non-appealable by reason of expiration of any period of time limiting the right to appeal therefrom). SECTION 8.03. Effect of Release of Collateral. Upon the effectiveness of the release of the Collateral pursuant to Section 8.02, all right, title and interest of the Collateral Trustees and the Representatives on behalf of the Secured Holders in, to and under the Collateral Trust Estate, the Collateral and the Shared Collateral Documents shall terminate and shall revert to the Grantors and their successors and assigns, and the estate, right, title and interest of the Collateral Trustees therein shall thereupon cease; and in such case, upon the written request of the Grantors, their successors or assigns, and at the cost and expense of the Grantors, their successors or assigns, the Collateral Trustees shall promptly execute and deliver a satisfaction of the Shared Collateral Documents and such instruments as are necessary or desirable to terminate and remove of record any documents constituting public notice of the Shared Collateral Documents and the security interests granted thereunder and shall transfer, or cause to be transferred, and shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Grantors, all property, including all moneys, instruments and securities of the Grantors then held by the Collateral Trustees. The cancellation and satisfaction of the Shared Collateral Documents shall be without prejudice to the rights of the Collateral Trustees or any successor trustee or trustees to charge and be reimbursed for any expenditures which they may thereafter incur in connection therewith. ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 9.01. Amendments, Supplements and Waivers. (a) With the written consent of the Required Representative(s) and the Corporate Trustee, the Grantors may, from time to time, enter into written agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding to or waiving any provision of this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document or changing in any manner the rights of the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives, the Secured Holders and the Grantors hereunder or thereunder; provided that (i) no such amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless the approval of all the Representatives existing at such time shall have been obtained, amend, waive or otherwise modify any provision of Sections 5.01, 8.01, 8.02 and 9.01 or amend or otherwise modify the definitions of "Required Representative(s)", "Secured Agreements", "Secured Holders", "Secured Obligations" or "Collateral Trust Agreement Default" set forth in Section 1.01,
32 (ii) no such amendment, waiver or consent shall amend, waive or otherwise modify this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document unless such amendment, waiver or consent complies with the amendment provisions (or other similar provisions) of the then outstanding Applicable Agreements, (iii) no such amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Individual Trustee, amend, waive or otherwise modify any provision of Section 7.10, (iv) any such supplemental agreement shall be binding upon the Grantors, the Representatives, the Secured Holders and the Collateral Trustees and their respective successors, (v) the Collateral Trustees shall not enter into any such supplemental agreement unless they shall have received a certificate of an Authorized Officer of each Grantor to the effect that such supplemental agreement will not result in a breach of any provision or covenant contained in the Applicable Agreement, and (vi) the Collateral Trustees shall not enter into any such supplemental agreement unless they shall have received a certificate of the Required Representative(s) and, in the case that the Required Representative(s) are not then the Other Debt Representatives, the Other Debt Representatives, in the case of clause (ii) above, to the effect that, upon receipt of the Corporate Trustee's written consent, this Section 9.01(a) has been complied with and an instruction letter requesting the Corporate Trustee and Individual Trustee to execute such supplemental agreement. (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a), (x) so long as the Obligations of the Borrower with respect to the Banc of America Secured Option shall remain outstanding, the approval of Banc of America Securities LLC shall be required for any amendment, waiver or consent of the type set forth in paragraph (a) that adversely affects the rights of Banc of America Securities LLC in a way different from the other Secured Holders and (y) the Collateral Trustees and the Grantors may, at any time and from time to time, without the consent of the Agent and any other Representative or any Secured Holders, enter into additional Shared Collateral Documents or one or more agreements supplemental hereto or to any Shared Collateral Document, in form satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees, (i) to add to the covenants of the Grantors for the benefit of the Representatives or any Secured Holder, or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Grantors; or (ii) to mortgage, pledge or grant a security interest in favor of the Collateral Trustees as additional security for the Secured Obligations any property or assets which are required to be mortgaged or pledged, or in which a security interest is required to be granted, to the Collateral Trustees pursuant to any Shared Collateral Document or otherwise. SECTION 9.02. Additional Actions of Representatives. Whether or not there shall be a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, the Collateral Trustees shall comply and shall be fully protected in complying with any reasonable request of (a) the Required Representative(s), to take or refrain from taking certain actions with respect to the Collateral or the Representatives,
33 and (b) more than 50% of the Secured Holders represented by any Representative which has requested that an account be opened pursuant to Section 5.02, to take or refrain from taking certain actions with respect to such account, provided, in each case, that the Collateral Trustees shall not take or refrain from taking such actions if to do so would violate applicable law or the terms of this Agreement, the other Shared Collateral Documents or the Applicable Agreements or if the Collateral Trustees shall not be indemnified as provided in Section 6.06(b). SECTION 9.03. Notices. All notices, requests, demands and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be in writing (including telex and telecopy communications) and shall be sent by mail (by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested), overnight prepaid courier, telex, telecopier or hand delivery: (a) If to the Grantors, to their addresses specified in the Credit Agreement or in any Shared Collateral Document; (b) If to the Corporate Trustee, at Rodney Square North, 1100 North Market St., Wilmington, DE 19890, Attention: Corporate Trust Division, or at such other address as shall be designated by it in a written notice to the Grantors and each Representative, with a copy to the Individual Trustee, at 1100 North Market St. Rodney Square North Wilmington, DE 19890, Attention: Corporate Trust Division, or at such other address as shall be designated by him in a written notice to the Grantors and each Representative; provided that failure to send a copy of any notice to the Individual Trustee shall not render any notice to the Collateral Trustees ineffective; and (c) If to any Representative, to it at the address specified from time to time in the list provided by the Grantors to the Collateral Trustees pursuant to Section 6.02 with copies to whomever (other than the Grantors) is specified by the Grantors pursuant to Section 6.02 as a Person to whom notice must be sent under the Secured Agreements, provided that in the case that no address is known for a Representative, notice shall be given to it in the manner specified by the related Secured Agreement, and, in the absence of any such specified means of giving notice, by such notice in the national edition of The Wall Street Journal or as the Collateral Trustees shall determine to be reasonable. For purposes of notice by publication, one notice is sufficient and shall be deemed made on the date of its publication. All such notices, requests, demands and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given or made, (i) when delivered by hand, (ii) five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, (iii) the next Business Day if delivered by an overnight prepaid courier, (iv) when telexed with answerback received, (v) when telecopied or (vi) when published in The Wall Street Journal or such other publication; provided, however, that any notice, request, demand or other communication to (1) the Collateral Trustees or (2) any Representative under Article V or Article VIII shall not be effective until received by the Corporate Trustee or such Representative, as the case may be, and, provided, further, that any notice to the Collateral Trustees from any Grantor shall be signed by an Authorized Officer, unless otherwise specifically set forth herein.
34 SECTION 9.04. Headings. Section, subsection and other headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement. SECTION 9.05. Severability. Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. SECTION 9.06. Treatment of Payee or Indorsee by Trustees. (a) The Collateral Trustees may treat the registered Secured Holder of any registered note, and the payee or indorsee of any note or debenture which is not registered, as the absolute owner thereof for all purposes hereunder and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary, whether such promissory note or debenture shall be past due or not. (b) Any person, firm, corporation or other entity which shall be designated as the duly authorized representative of one or more Representatives to act as such in connection with any matters pertaining to this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document or the Collateral shall present to the Collateral Trustees such documents, including, without limitation, opinions of counsel, as the Collateral Trustees may reasonably require, in order to demonstrate to the Collateral Trustees the authority of such person, firm, corporation or other entity to act as the representative of such Representatives. SECTION 9.07. Dealings with the Grantors. Upon any application or demand by the Grantors to the Collateral Trustees to take or permit any action under any of the provisions of this Agreement, each Grantor shall (unless otherwise waived by the Collateral Trustees in writing) furnish to the Collateral Trustees a certificate signed by an Authorized Officer stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Agreement relating to the proposed action have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Agreement relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate need be furnished. SECTION 9.08. Claims. This Agreement is made for the benefit of the Representatives on behalf of the Secured Holders, and the Representatives may from time to time enforce their rights as explicit beneficiaries hereunder pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents. SECTION 9.09. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each of the parties hereto and shall inure to the benefit of the Representatives on behalf of the Secured Holders and their respective successors and assigns and nothing herein or in any other Shared Collateral Document is intended or shall be construed to give any other Person any right, remedy or claim under, to or in respect of this Agreement, any other Shared Collateral Document, the Collateral, the Collateral Account or the Collateral Trust Estate or any part thereof. SECTION 9.10. Governing Law. The provisions of this Agreement creating a trust for the benefit of the Representatives on behalf of the Secured Holders and setting forth the
35 rights, duties, obligations and responsibilities of the Collateral Trustees hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, so long as Wilmington Trust Company shall serve as Corporate Trustee hereunder. In all other respects, including, without limitation, all matters governed by the Uniform Commercial Code, and if Wilmington Trust Company shall cease to serve as Corporate Trustee hereunder, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, except as otherwise required by mandatory provisions of law. SECTION 9.11. Effectiveness. This Agreement shall become effective on the execution and delivery hereof and shall remain in effect so long as the Collateral Trustees shall have any obligations hereunder. SECTION 9.12. Reexecution of Agreement. This Agreement shall be reexecuted at any time and from time to time, at the request of the Required Representative(s), with such changes in the form hereof (including, without limitation, changes on the cover page and adding supplemental signatures and notary statements) as may be necessary to comply with the filing or recording requirements of any jurisdiction where this Agreement is to be filed. SECTION 9.13. Effect on Credit Agreements. Nothing in this Agreement shall operate or be deemed to prevent any amendment, modification or waiver of the Credit Agreement or other Credit Agreement Document by the parties thereto in accordance with the terms thereof. SECTION 9.14. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement or caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written. Corporate Trustee: WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, not in its individual capacity, but solely as Corporate Trustee By: ---------------------------------- Title:
Individual Trustee: -------------------------------------- BRUCE L. BISSON, not in his individual capacity, but solely as Individual Trustee
Grantors: THE AES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation By: ---------------------------------- Title: AES INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS II, LTD., a British Virgin Islands company By: ---------------------------------- Title:
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED ON THE DATE HEREOF BY: CITICORP USA, INC., as Administrative Agent By: ---------------------------------- Title: WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Exchange Note Trustee By: ---------------------------------- Title: BANKBOSTON, N.A., NASSAU BRANCH, as Sul Agent By: ---------------------------------- Title: FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as Lake Worth LOC Bank By: ---------------------------------- Title:

EXHIBIT 4.3 EXECUTION COPY SECURITY AGREEMENT Dated December 12, 2002 From The Grantors referred to herein as Grantors to WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY as Corporate Trustee and Bruce L. Bisson as Individual Trustee
TABLE OF CONTENTS Section Page Section 1. Grant of Security................................................4 Section 2. Security for Obligations.........................................7 Section 3. Grantors Remain Liable...........................................7 Section 4. Delivery and Control of Security Collateral......................7 Section 5. Maintaining the Account Collateral...............................9 Section 6. Maintaining Letter-of-Credit Rights.............................10 Section 7. Representations and Warranties..................................11 Section 8. Further Assurances..............................................13 Section 9. Post-Closing Changes; Collections on Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts...............................15 Section 10. Voting Rights; Dividends; Etc...................................16 Section 11. As to the Assigned Agreements...................................17 Section 12. Payments Under the Assigned Agreements; Letters of Credit.......17 Section 13. Transfers and Other Liens; Additional Shares....................18 Section 14. Collateral Trustees May Perform.................................18 Section 15. Remedies........................................................18 Section 16. Indemnity and Expenses..........................................20 Section 17. Amendments; Waivers; Additional Grantors; Etc...................21 Section 18. Notices, Etc....................................................21 Section 19. Continuing Security Interest; Assignments under the Credit Agreement................................................22 Section 20. Release; Termination............................................22 Section 21. Security Interest Absolute......................................22 Section 22. Additional Secured Obligations..................................23 Section 23. Execution in Counterparts.......................................24 Section 24. Limitation of Liability.........................................24 i
Section 25. Governing Law...................................................24 Section 26. Submission to Jurisdiction and Waiver...........................24 Schedules Schedule I - Location, Chief Executive Office, Place Where Agreements Are Maintained, Type Of Organization, Jurisdiction Of Organization And Organizational Identification Number Schedule II - Pledged Equity and Pledged Debt Schedule III - Assigned Agreements Schedule IV - Changes in Name, Location, Etc. Schedule V - Account Collateral Schedule VI - Securities Accounts Schedule VII - Excluded Receivables Schedule VIII - Other Deposit Accounts and Other Securities Accounts Exhibits Exhibit A - Form of Security Agreement Supplement Exhibit B - Form of Account Control Agreement (Deposit Account/Securities Account) Exhibit C - Form of Consent and Agreement Exhibit D - Form of Securities Account Control Agreement ii
SECURITY AGREEMENT SECURITY AGREEMENT dated December 12, 2002 made by The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), the other Persons listed on the signature pages hereof and the Additional Grantors (as defined in Section 17) (the Borrower, the Persons so listed and the Additional Grantors being, collectively, the "Grantors"), to Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, not in its individual capacity but solely as corporate trustee (together with any successor corporate trustee appointed pursuant to Article VII of the Collateral Trust Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the "Corporate Trustee"), and Bruce L. Bisson, an individual residing in the State of Delaware, not in his individual capacity but solely as individual trustee (together with any successor individual trustee appointed pursuant to ArticleVII of the Collateral Trust Agreement, the "Individual Trustee"; and, together with the Corporate Trustee, the "Collateral Trustees"), as trustees under the Collateral Trust Agreement dated December 12, 2002 (as such agreement may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified hereafter from time to time, the "Collateral Trust Agreement") among the Grantors and the Collateral Trustees. PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS. (1) The Borrower has entered into an Amended and Restated Credit, Reimbursement and Exchange Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 (said agreement, as it may hereafter be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being the "Credit Agreement"; terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings specified therein) with the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, the Banks party thereto (the "Banks"), the Revolving Fronting Banks and the Drax LOC Fronting Bank party thereto, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent for the Bank Parties (in such capacity, the "Agent") and as Collateral Agent for the Bank Parties (in such capacity, the "Credit Agreement Collateral Agent"; and together with the Agent, the "Agents"). (2) In order to induce the Banks, the Revolving Fronting Banks, the Drax LOC Fronting Banks and the Agents to enter into the Credit Agreement, the Grantors have agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral (as hereinafter defined) to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Lender Parties to secure the Obligations of the Borrower (the "Loan Parties") under the Credit Agreement and the Notes issued pursuant thereto. (3) The Borrower will enter into an Indenture to be dated as of December 13, 2002 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect on the date hereof and as the same may hereafter be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the terms thereof, the "Exchange Note Indenture") with Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association (the "Exchange Note Trustee") to exchange the Borrower's (i) 8.75% Senior Notes due 2002 and (ii) the 7.375% Remarketable or Redeemable Securities due 2013 for the 10% Senior Secured Exchange Notes due 2005 to be issued on December 13, 2002 (the "Exchange Notes", and together with the Exchange Note Indenture (only to the extent relating to the Exchange Notes), the "Exchange Note Agreements").
(4) In order to induce the Exchange Note Trustee to enter into the Exchange Note Indenture, the Grantors have agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Exchange Note Holders to secure the Obligations of the Borrower under the Exchange Note Agreements. (5) The Borrower has entered into a Sponsor Agreement dated as of March 7, 2000 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect on the date hereof and as the same may hereafter be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the terms thereof, the "Sponsor Agreement") with BankBoston, N.A., Nassau Branch, as agent (the "Sul Agent"), pursuant to which the Borrower has agreed to guarantee the obligations of AES Cayman Guaiba, Ltd. under a Credit Agreement dated as of March 6, 2001 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect on the date hereof and as the same may hereafter be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the terms thereof, the "Sul Credit Agreement") with BankBoston, N.A., Nassau Branch, Banc of America Securities, LLC, Unibanco-Uniao de Bancos Brasilieros S.A. and WestLB AG, New York Branch and the lenders named therein (collectively, the "Sul Guaranteed Parties"), in an amount of up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000,000 (together with any other agreement or instrument delivered in connection with such guaranty, the "Sul Guarantee"). (6) In order to satisfy certain conditions of the Sul Guarantee, the Grantors have agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Sul Guarantee Parties to secure the Obligations of the Borrower under the Sul Guarantee. (7) The Borrower has entered into a Gas Transportation Agreement dated as of July 21, 2000 with Florida Public Utilities Company pursuant to which Fleet National Bank (the "Lake Worth LOC Bank") issued in favor of Florida Public Utilities Company irrevocable standby letter of credit number 1S1280134 (together with the application and agreement therefor dated on or about July 6, 2001, the "Lake Worth Letter of Credit") in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,490,449. (8) In order to satisfy certain conditions under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, the Grantors have agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Lake Worth LOC Bank to secure the obligation of Lake Worth Generation LLC ("Lake Worth"), a Subsidiary of the Borrower, to reimburse the Lake Worth LOC Bank for any drawings under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit in an amount of up to a maximum aggregate amount of $5,490,449. (9) It is a condition precedent to (a) the continuation of the Loans by the Banks and the making of Revolving Credit Loans by the Revolving Credit Loan Banks, (b) the issuance (or be deemed to have issued) of Revolving Letters of Credit by the Revolving Fronting Banks, (c) the deemed issuance of the Drax Letter of Credit and the making of Drax Loans in respect of Drax L/C Drawings by the Drax LOC Fronting Banks, (d) the entry into the Secured Hedge Agreements by the Hedge Banks from time to time, (e) the entry into the Secured Treasury Management Service Agreements by a Bank Party or any Affiliate thereof, (f) the entry into the Exchange Note Indenture by the Exchange Note Trustee, (g) the satisfaction by 2
Borrower of its obligations under the Sul Guarantee and (h) the satisfaction by Lake Worth of its obligations under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, that the Grantors shall have granted the assignment and security interest and made the pledge and assignment contemplated by this Agreement. (10) The Collateral Trustees have agreed, pursuant to the terms of the Collateral Trust Agreement, to accept the pledge and assignment, and the grant of a security interest, under this Agreement as security for the Secured Obligations (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement). (11) Each Grantor will derive substantial direct and indirect benefit from the transactions contemplated by the Secured Agreements. (12) The Borrower has the security entitlements (the "Pledged Security Entitlements") with respect to all the financial assets (the "Pledged Financial Assets") credited from time to time to the Borrower's securities accounts (the "Securities Accounts") set forth and as otherwise described in Schedule VI hereto with the Persons named therein (each a "Securities Intermediary"). (13) Each Grantor is the owner of the shares of stock or other Equity Interests (the "Initial Pledged Equity") set forth opposite such Grantor's name on and as otherwise described in Part I of Schedule II hereto and issued by the Persons named therein and the Borrower is the owner of the indebtedness (the "Initial Pledged Debt") set forth opposite the Borrower's name on and as otherwise described in Part II of Schedule II hereto and issued by the obligors named therein. (14) The Borrower has opened a Collateral Account (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement), under the control of the Corporate Trustee and subject to the terms of this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents. (15) The Borrower maintains deposit accounts (the "Deposit Accounts") with banks, in the name of the Borrower and subject to the terms of this Agreement, as described in Schedule V hereto. (16) Terms defined in the Credit Agreement or the Collateral Trust Agreement and not otherwise defined in this Agreement are used in this Agreement as defined in the Credit Agreement or the Collateral Trust Agreement. Further, unless otherwise defined in this Agreement, the Credit Agreement or the Collateral Trust Agreement, terms defined in Article 8 or 9 of the UCC (as defined below) and/or in the Federal Book Entry Regulations (as defined below) are used in this Agreement as such terms are defined in such Article 8 or 9 and/or the Federal Book Entry Regulations. "UCC" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect, from time to time, in the State of New York; provided that, if perfection or the effect of perfection or non-perfection or the priority of any security interest in any Collateral is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in a jurisdiction other than the State of New York, "UCC" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in such other jurisdiction for purposes of the provisions hereof relating to such perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection or priority. The term "Federal Book Entry Regulations" means (a) the 3
federal regulations contained in Subpart B ("Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System (TRADES)") governing book-entry securities consisting of U.S. Treasury bonds, notes and bills and Subpart D ("Additional Provisions") of 31 C.F.R. Part 357, 31 C.F.R. ss. 357.2, ss. 357.10 through ss. 357.14 and ss. 357.41 through ss. 357.44 and (b) to the extent substantially identical to the federal regulations referred to in clause (a) above (as in effect from time to time), the federal regulations governing other book-entry securities. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and in order to (1) induce (a) the Banks to continue the Loans and the Revolving Credit Loan Banks to make Revolving Credit Loans, (b) the Revolving Fronting Banks to issue (or be deemed to have issued) Revolving Letters of Credit, (c) the Drax LOC Fronting Bank to be deemed to have issued the Drax Letter of Credit and to make Drax Loans in respect of Drax L/C Drawings, (d) the Hedge Banks to enter into Secured Hedge Agreements from time to time, (e) the entry into the Secured Treasury Management Service Agreements by a Bank Party or an Affiliate thereof and, (f) the Exchange Note Trustee to enter into the Exchange Note Indenture and (2) satisfy certain conditions of the Sul Guarantee and the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, each Grantor hereby agrees with the Collateral Trustees for their benefit and in trust for the ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders as follows: Section 1. Grant of Security. Each Grantor, in order to secure the Secured Obligations, hereby assigns and pledges to the Collateral Trustees for their benefit and in trust for the equitable and ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders, and hereby grants to the Collateral Trustees for their benefit and in trust for the equitable and ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders, a lien on and security interest in, such Grantor's right, title and interest in and to the following, in each case, as to each type of property described below, whether now owned or hereafter acquired by such Grantor, wherever located, and whether now or hereafter existing or arising (collectively, the "Collateral"): (a) in the case of the Borrower, all accounts, chattel paper (including, without limitation, tangible chattel paper and electronic chattel paper), instruments (including, without limitation, promissory notes), general intangibles (including, without limitation, payment intangibles) and other obligations of any kind, whether or not arising out of or in connection with the sale or lease of goods or the rendering of services and whether or not earned by performance, and all rights now or hereafter existing in and to all supporting obligations and in and to all security agreements, mortgages, Liens, leases, letters of credit and other contracts securing or otherwise relating to the foregoing property, in each case only to the extent such accounts, chattel paper, instruments, general intangibles and other obligations are owed to the Borrower from a Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than the Subsidiaries listed on Schedule VII) (any and all of such accounts, chattel paper, instruments, general intangibles and other obligations, to the extent not referred to in clause (b), (c) or (d) below, being the "Receivables", and any and all such supporting obligations, security agreements, mortgages, Liens, leases, letters of credit and other contracts being the "Related Contracts"); (b) the following (the "Security Collateral"): 4
(i) the Initial Pledged Equity and the certificates, if any, representing the Initial Pledged Equity, and all dividends, distributions, return of capital, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of the Initial Pledged Equity and all subscription warrants, rights or options issued thereon or with respect thereto; (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the Initial Pledged Debt and the instruments, if any, evidencing the Initial Pledged Debt, and all interest, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of the Initial Pledged Debt; (iii) all additional shares of stock and other Equity Interests of or in any issuer of the Initial Pledged Equity or any successor entity from time to time acquired by such Grantor in any manner and all additional shares of stock or Equity Interests of or in any new direct Subsidiary (other than a Non-Pledged Subsidiary) of such Grantor formed or acquired by such Grantor in any manner after the date of this Agreement (such shares and other Equity Interests, together with the Initial Pledged Equity, being the "Pledged Equity"), and the certificates, if any, representing such additional shares or other Equity Interests, and all dividends, distributions, return of capital, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of such shares or other Equity Interests and all subscription warrants, rights or options issued thereon or with respect thereto; (iv) all additional indebtedness from time to time owed to the Borrower by any obligor of the Initial Pledged Debt or any successor entity (such indebtedness, together with the Initial Pledged Debt, being the "Pledged Debt") and the instruments, if any, evidencing such indebtedness, and all interest, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of such indebtedness; (v) in the case of the Borrower, the Securities Accounts, all Pledged Security Entitlements with respect to all Pledged Financial Assets from time to time credited to the Securities Accounts, and all Pledged Financial Assets, and all dividends, distributions, return of capital, interest, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of such Pledged Security Entitlements or such Pledged Financial Assets and all subscription warrants, rights or options issued thereon or with respect thereto; and (vi) all other investment property (including, without limitation, all (A) securities, whether certificated or uncertificated, (B) security entitlements and (C) securities accounts) in which the Borrower has now, or acquires from time to time hereafter, any right, title or interest in any manner, and the certificates or 5
instruments, if any, representing or evidencing such investment property, and all dividends, distributions, return of capital, interest, distributions, value, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of such investment property and all subscription warrants, rights or options issued thereon or with respect thereto; provided, however, that if any time after the date of this Agreement the Borrower obtains the appropriate consents and regulatory approvals with respect to AES Oasis Finco Inc. and AES Oasis Holdco Inc., the Equity Interests in AES Oasis Finco, Inc. and AES Oasis Holdco, Inc. shall be pledged to the extent permissible at such time; (c) in the case of the Borrower each of the agreements listed on Schedule III hereto (collectively, the "Assigned Agreements"), including, without limitation, (i) all rights of the Borrower to receive moneys due and to become due under or pursuant to the Assigned Agreements, (ii) all rights of the Borrower to receive proceeds of any insurance, indemnity, warranty or guaranty with respect to the Assigned Agreements, (iii) claims of the Borrower for damages arising out of or for breach of or default under the Assigned Agreements and (iv) the right of the Borrower to terminate the Assigned Agreements, to perform thereunder and to compel performance and otherwise exercise all remedies thereunder (all such Collateral being the "Agreement Collateral"); (d) the following (collectively, the "Account Collateral"): (i) in the case of the Borrower, the Deposit Accounts and all funds and financial assets from time to time credited thereto (including, without limitation, all Cash Equivalents, all interest, dividends, distributions, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of such funds and financial assets, and all certificates and instruments, if any, from time to time representing or evidencing the Deposit Accounts); (ii) all promissory notes, certificates of deposit, deposit accounts, checks and other instruments from time to time delivered to or otherwise possessed by the Collateral Trustees for or on behalf of the Borrower, including, without limitation, those delivered or possessed in substitution for or in addition to any or all of the then existing Account Collateral; and (iii) all interest, dividends, distributions, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of the then existing Account Collateral; and (e) all proceeds of, collateral for, income, and other payments now or hereafter due and payable with respect to, and supporting obligations relating to, any and all of the Collateral (including, without limitation, proceeds, collateral and supporting obligations that constitute property of the types described in clauses (a) through (d) of this Section 1 and this clause (e)) and, to the extent not otherwise included, all 6
(A) payments under insurance (whether or not the Collateral Trustees are the loss payee thereof), or any indemnity, warranty or guaranty, payable by reason of loss or damage to or otherwise with respect to any of the foregoing Collateral, (B) tort claims, including, without limitation, all commercial tort claims and (C) cash. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1 or of any other Secured Agreement, the grant of a security interest as provided herein shall not extend to, and the term "Collateral" shall not include, as to each Grantor, more than 65% of the outstanding voting stock of any CFC (the "Excluded Assets"). Section 2. Security for Obligations. This Agreement secures the payment of all of the Secured Obligations of the Borrower. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Agreement secures, as to each Grantor, the payment of all amounts that constitute part of the Secured Obligations and would be owed by such Grantor to any Secured Holder but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving any Grantor. Section 3. Grantors Remain Liable. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, (a) each Grantor shall remain liable under the contracts and agreements included in such Grantor's Collateral to the extent set forth therein to perform all of its duties and obligations thereunder to the same extent as if this Agreement had not been executed, (b) the exercise by the Collateral Trustees of any of the rights hereunder shall not release any Grantor from any of its duties or obligations under the contracts and agreements included in the Collateral and (c) none of the Collateral Trustees, any Representative or any Secured Holder shall have any obligation or liability under the contracts and agreements included in the Collateral by reason of this Agreement or any other Secured Agreement, nor shall any of the Collateral Trustees, any Representative or any Secured Holder be obligated to perform any of the obligations or duties of any Grantor thereunder or to take any action to collect or enforce any claim for payment assigned hereunder or thereunder. Section 4. Delivery and Control of Security Collateral. (a) All certificates or instruments representing or evidencing Security Collateral shall be delivered to and held by or on behalf of the Collateral Trustees pursuant to this Agreement and the Collateral Trust Agreement and shall be in suitable form for transfer by delivery, or shall be accompanied by duly executed instruments of transfer or assignment in blank, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees. The Collateral Trustees shall have the right, at any time after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, in their discretion and without notice to any Grantor, to transfer to or to register in the name of the Collateral Trustees or any of their nominees any or all of the Security Collateral, subject only to the revocable rights specified in Section 10, and subject to the Remedies Limitations (as defined in Section 7(i)). In addition, the Collateral Trustees shall have the right at any time, after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, to exchange certificates or instruments representing or evidencing Security Collateral for certificates or instruments of smaller or larger denominations. Also, the Collateral Trustee shall have the right at any time, after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, to convert Security Collateral consisting of financial assets credited to the Securities Accounts to Security Collateral consisting of financial assets held directly by the Collateral Trustee. 7
(b) With respect to any Security Collateral in which any Grantor has any right, title or interest and that constitutes an uncertificated security, subject to the Remedies Limitations, such Grantor will cause the issuer thereof either (i) to register the Collateral Trustees as the registered owners of such security or (ii) to agree in an authenticated record with such Grantor and the Collateral Trustees that such issuer will comply with instructions with respect to such security originated by the Collateral Trustees without further consent of such Grantor, such authenticated record to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees. With respect to any Security Collateral in which any Grantor has any right, title or interest and that is not an uncertificated security, upon the request of the Collateral Trustees, such Grantor will notify each such issuer of Pledged Equity that such Pledged Equity is subject to the security interest granted hereunder and the Borrower will notify each such issuer of Pledged Debt that such Pledged Debt is subject to the security interest granted hereunder. (c) With respect to any Security Collateral in which the Borrower has any right, title or interest and that constitutes a security entitlement in which the Collateral Trustees are not the entitlement holders, the Borrower will cause the securities intermediary with respect to such security entitlement either (i) to identify in its records the Collateral Trustees as the entitlement holders of such security entitlement against such securities intermediary or (ii) to agree in an authenticated record with the Borrower and the Collateral Trustees that such securities intermediary will comply with entitlement orders (that is, notifications communicated to such securities intermediary directing transfer or redemption of the financial asset to which such Grantor has a security entitlement) originated by the Collateral Trustees upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, without further consent of such Grantor, such authenticated record to be in substantially the form of Exhibit D hereto or otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees (such agreement being a "Securities Account Control Agreement"). (d) The Borrower agrees that it will not add any securities intermediary that maintains a securities account for the Borrower or open any new securities account with any then existing Securities Intermediary unless (i) the Collateral Trustees and the Required Representatives shall have received at least 10 days' prior written notice of such additional securities intermediary or such new securities account and (ii) the Collateral Trustees shall have received, in the case of a Securities Account that is maintained by a Securities Intermediary that is not the Corporate Trustee, a Securities Account Control Agreement authenticated by such new securities intermediary and the Borrower, or a supplement to an existing Securities Account Control Agreement with such then existing Securities Intermediary, covering such new securities account (and, upon the receipt by the Collateral Trustees of such Securities Account Control Agreement or supplement, Schedule VI hereto shall be automatically amended to include such new Securities Account). The Borrower agrees that it will not terminate any Securities Account, except that the Borrower may terminate a Securities Account, if it gives the Collateral Trustees and the Required Representatives at least 10 days' prior written notice of such termination (and, upon such termination, Schedule VI hereto shall be automatically amended to delete such Securities Intermediary and Securities Account). The Borrower will not change or add any securities intermediary that maintains any securities account in which any of the Collateral is credited or carried, or change or add any such securities account, in each case without first complying with the provisions of this Section 4 in order to continuously perfect the security interest granted hereunder in such Collateral. 8
(e) The Borrower shall, with respect to each Securities Account set forth on Part B of Schedule VIII hereto (the "Other Securities Accounts"), within 7 days of the date of this Agreement (x) terminate such Other Securities Account, at which time Schedule VI and Part B of Schedule VIII hereto shall be automatically amended to delete such Securities Account and Other Securities Account, respectively or (y) enter into a Securities Account Control Agreement with respect to such Other Securities Account, at which time Part B of Schedule VIII shall be automatically amended to delete such Other Securities Account. (f) Upon any termination by the Borrower of any Securities Account by the Borrower, or any Securities Intermediary with respect thereto, the Borrower will immediately transfer all funds and property held in such terminated Securities Account to another Securities Account listed in Schedule VI. (g) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, the Collateral Trustees shall have the right to originate a Notice of Exclusive Control (as such term is defined in the applicable Securities Account Control Agreement) with respect to any Securities Account and thereafter shall have the sole and exclusive right to direct the disposition of the funds and assets with respect to any such Securities Account. Section 5. Maintaining the Account Collateral. So long as any of the Secured Obligations remain outstanding, any Revolving Letter of Credit or the Drax Letter of Credit shall be outstanding, or any Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment: (a) The Borrower will maintain all Account Collateral only with the Corporate Trustee or with banks (the "Pledged Account Banks") that have agreed, in a record authenticated by the Borrower, the Collateral Trustees and the Pledged Account Banks, to (i) comply with instructions originated by the Collateral Trustees directing the disposition of funds in the Account Collateral without the further consent of the Borrower upon the receipt by the applicable Pledge Account Bank of a Notice of Exclusive Control (as defined in the applicable Account Control Agreement referred to below) and (ii) waive or subordinate in favor of the Collateral Trustees all claims of the Pledged Account Banks (including, without limitation, claims by way of a security interest, lien or right of setoff or right of recoupment but subject to such exceptions as may be agreed) to the Account Collateral, which authenticated record shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, or shall otherwise be in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees (the "Account Control Agreement"). (b) The Borrower will cause each Person obligated at any time to make any payment to the Borrower for any reason (an "Obligor") to make such payment to a Deposit Account. (c) The Borrower agrees that it will not add any bank that maintains a deposit account for the Borrower or open any new deposit account with any then existing Pledged Account Bank unless (i) the Collateral Trustees and the Required Representatives shall have received at least 10 days' prior written notice of such additional bank or such new deposit account and (ii) the Collateral Trustees shall have received, in the case of a bank or Pledged Account Bank that is not the Corporate 9
Trustee, an Account Control Agreement authenticated by such new bank and the Borrower, or a supplement to an existing Account Control Agreement with such then existing Pledged Account Bank, covering such new deposit account (and, upon the receipt by the Collateral Trustees of such Account Control Agreement or supplement, Schedule V hereto shall be automatically amended to include such new Deposit Account). The Borrower agrees that it will not terminate any bank as a Pledged Account Bank or terminate any Account Collateral, except that the Borrower may terminate a Deposit Account, and terminate a bank as a Pledged Account Bank with respect to a Deposit Account, if it gives the Collateral Trustees and the Required Representatives at least 10 days' prior written notice of such termination (and, upon such termination, Schedule V hereto shall be automatically amended to delete such Pledged Account Bank and Deposit Account). The Borrower will not change or add any bank that maintains any deposit account in which any of the Account Collateral is credited or carried, or change or add any such deposit account, in each case without first complying with the provisions of this Section 5 in order to continuously perfect the security interest granted hereunder in such Account Collateral. (d) Upon any termination by the Borrower of any Deposit Account by the Borrower, or any Pledged Account Bank with respect thereto, the Borrower will immediately (i) transfer all funds and property held in such terminated Deposit Account to another Deposit Account listed in Schedule V and (ii) notify all Obligors that were making payments to such Deposit Account to make all future payments to another Deposit Account listed in Schedule V hereto, in each case so that the Collateral Trustees shall have a continuously perfected security interest in such Account Collateral, funds and property. (e) The Borrower shall, with respect to each Deposit Account set forth on Part A of Schedule VIII hereto (the "Other Deposit Accounts"), within 7 days of the date of this Agreement (x) terminate such Other Deposit Account, at which time Schedule V and Part A of Schedule VIII hereto shall be automatically amended to delete such Deposit Account and Other Deposit Account, respectively or (y) enter into an Account Control Agreement with respect to such Other Deposit Account, at which time Part A of Schedule VIII shall be automatically amended to delete such Other Deposit Account. (f) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, the Collateral Trustees shall have the right to originate a Notice of Exclusive Control (as such term is defined in the applicable Account Control Agreement) with respect to any Deposit Account and thereafter shall have the sole and exclusive right at such time to direct the disposition of funds with respect to the applicable the Deposit Accounts. Section 6. Maintaining Letter-of-Credit Rights. So long as any of the Secured Obligations remain outstanding, any Revolving Letter of Credit or the Drax Letter of Credit shall be outstanding, or any Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment, each Grantor will maintain all letter-of-credit rights assigned to the Collateral Trustees so that the Collateral Trustees have control of the letter-of-credit rights in the manner specified in Section 9-107 of the UCC. 10
Section 7. Representations and Warranties. Each Grantor represents and warrants as follows: (a) Such Grantor's exact legal name, as defined in Section 9-503(a) of the UCC, is correctly set forth in Schedule I hereto. Such Grantor is located (within the meaning of Section 9-307 of the UCC) in the state or jurisdiction set forth on Schedule I hereto. In the case of the Borrower, the Borrower has its chief executive office and the office in which it maintains the original copies of each Assigned Agreement and Related Contract to which the Borrower is a party and all originals of all chattel paper that evidence Receivables of the Borrower, in the state or jurisdiction set forth in Schedule I hereto. The information set forth in Schedule I hereto with respect to such Grantor is true and accurate in all respects. Such Grantor has not previously changed its name, location, chief executive office, place where it maintains its agreements, type of organization, jurisdiction of organization or organizational identification number from those set forth in Schedule I hereto except as disclosed in Schedule IV hereto. (b) Such Grantor is the legal and beneficial owner of the Collateral of such Grantor free and clear of any Lien, claim, option or right of others, except for the security interest created under this Agreement or permitted under the Credit Agreement. No effective financing statement or other instrument similar in effect covering all or any part of such Collateral or listing such Grantor or any trade name of such Grantor as debtor is on file in any recording office, except such as may have been filed in favor of the Collateral Trustees relating to the Secured Agreements. (c) The Pledged Equity pledged by such Grantor hereunder has been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and non-assessable. With respect to the Pledged Equity that is an uncertificated security, subject to the Remedies Limitations, such Grantor has caused the issuer thereof either (i) to register the Collateral Trustees as the registered owners of such security or (ii) to agree in an authenticated record with such Grantor and the Collateral Trustees that such issuer will comply with instructions with respect to such security originated by the Collateral Trustees without further consent of such Grantor. If such Grantor is an issuer of Pledged Equity, such Grantor confirms that it has received notice of such security interest. In the case of the Borrower, the Pledged Debt pledged by the Borrower hereunder has been duly authorized, authenticated or issued and delivered, is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the issuers thereof, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law, is evidenced by one or more promissory notes (which notes have been delivered to the Collateral Trustees) and as of the date hereof is not in default. All Security Collateral consisting of certificated securities and instruments have been delivered to the Collateral Trustees. (d) The Initial Pledged Equity pledged by such Grantor constitutes the percentage of the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the issuers thereof indicated on Schedule II hereto. In the case of the Borrower, the Initial Pledged Debt constitutes all of the outstanding indebtedness owed to the Borrower by the issuers thereof and is outstanding in the principal amount indicated on Schedule II hereto. 11
(e) In the case of the Borrower, the Assigned Agreements to which the Borrower is a party, true and complete copies of which have been furnished to the Collateral Trustees, have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all parties thereto, have not been amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, are in full force and effect and are binding upon and enforceable against the Borrower, and to the Borrower's knowledge, all parties thereto in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. There exists no default as of the date hereof under any Assigned Agreement to which the Borrower is a party by any party thereto. Other than the Borrower, each party to the Assigned Agreements listed on Schedule III hereto which requires such parties' consent for assignment and to which the Borrower is a party has executed and delivered to the Borrower a consent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto or otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees, to the assignment of the Agreement Collateral to the Collateral Trustees pursuant to this Agreement. (f) In the case of the Borrower, the Borrower has no deposit accounts, other than the Account Collateral listed on Schedule V hereto, as such Schedule V may be amended from time to time pursuant to Section 5(d), and legal, binding and enforceable Account Control Agreements are in effect for each deposit account that constitutes Account Collateral (other than Account Collateral consisting of Deposit Accounts maintained with the Corporate Trustees or the Other Deposit Accounts), except to the extent such Account Control Agreements are not required by Section 5(a). The Borrower has instructed all existing Obligors to make all payments to a Deposit Account. (g) In the case of the Borrower, the Borrower has no deposit accounts, other than the Other Deposit Accounts listed on Part A of Schedule VIII hereto, as Part A of Schedule VIII hereto may be amended from time to time pursuant to Section 5(d), which are not the subject of a legal, binding and enforceable Account Control Agreement. (h) In the case of the Borrower, the Borrower has no securities accounts, other than the Securities Accounts listed on Schedule VI hereto, as such Schedule VI may be amended from time to time pursuant to Section 4(d), and legal, binding and enforceable Securities Account Control Agreements are in effect for each securities account that constitutes Security Collateral (other than Security Collateral maintained with the Corporate Trustee in the Collateral Account or the Other Securities Accounts), except to the extent such Securities Account Control Agreements are not required by Section 4(c). (i) In the case of the Borrower, the Borrower has no securities accounts, other than the Other Securities Accounts listed on Part B of Schedule VIII hereto, as Part B of Schedule VIII hereto may be amended from time to time pursuant to Section 4(e), which are not the subject of a legal, binding and enforceable Securities Account Control Agreement. (j) All filings and other actions (including, without limitation, actions necessary to obtain control of Collateral as provided in Sections 9-104, 9-105, 9-106 and 12
9-107 of the UCC) necessary to perfect the security interest in the Collateral of such Grantor created under this Agreement have been duly made or taken and are in full force and effect, and this Agreement creates in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders a valid and, together with such filings and other actions, perfected first priority security interest in the Collateral of such Grantor, securing the payment of the Secured Obligations. (k) (i) The execution, delivery, recordation, filing or performance by such Grantor of this Agreement, (ii) the grant by such Grantor of the Liens granted by it pursuant to this Agreement, (iii) the perfection or maintenance of the Liens created under this Agreement (including the first priority nature thereof), (iv) the exercise by the Collateral Trustees of their voting or other rights provided for in this Agreement and (v) the exercise by the Collateral Trustees of their remedies in respect of the Collateral pursuant to this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents, will not require any consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or any notice to or filing with, any court, regulatory body, administrative agency or other governmental body (other (x) than such filings required in order to perfect any security interest granted by this Agreement, (y) the actions described in Section 4 with respect to the Security Collateral, which actions have been taken and are in full force and effect and (z) any other consent, approval, authorization, order, notice or filing, the failure of which to make or obtain could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect), and will not conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the charter or by-laws of the Borrower or any of the Pledged Subsidiaries or any agreement, indenture or other instrument to which the Borrower or any of the Pledged Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Borrower or any of the Pledged Subsidiaries or any of the Borrower's or any of the Pledged Subsidiaries' respective property is bound, or violate or conflict with any laws, administrative regulations or rulings or court decrees applicable to the Borrower, any of the Pledged Subsidiaries or the Borrower's or any of the Pledged Subsidiaries' respective property, except for any violation, breach, conflict or default that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and except that in each of the foregoing cases, (A) any foreclosure or other exercise of remedies by the Collateral Trustees will require additional approvals and consents that have not been obtained from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of one or more Subsidiaries, and the failure to obtain such approval or consent could result in a default under, or breach of, agreements or other legal obligations of such Subsidiary and (B) disposition of any of the Security Collateral may be subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals and to laws affecting the offering and sale of securities generally (the exceptions described in the foregoing clauses (A) and (B) are referred to as "Remedies Limitations"). Section 8. Further Assurances. (a) Subject to the Remedies Limitations, each Grantor agrees that from time to time, at the expense of such Grantor, such Grantor will promptly execute and deliver, or otherwise authenticate, all further instruments and documents, and take all further action that may be necessary or desirable, or that the Collateral Trustees may request and that is within the power of such Grantor, consistent with its currently existing contractual and other legal obligations, in order to perfect any pledge, assignment or security interest granted or purported to be granted by such Grantor hereunder or to enable the Collateral 13
Trustees to exercise and enforce their rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Shared Collateral Documents with respect to any Collateral of such Grantor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Grantor will promptly with respect to Collateral of such Grantor: (i) mark conspicuously each chattel paper included in Receivables, each Related Contract and, at the request of the Collateral Trustees, each of its records pertaining to such Collateral with a legend, in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees, indicating that such chattel paper, Related Contract, Assigned Agreement or Collateral is subject to the security interest granted hereby; provided, however, that no such legend shall be required if such Collateral is delivered to the Collateral Trustees pursuant to clause (ii) below, (ii) if any such Collateral shall be evidenced by a promissory note or other instrument or chattel paper, deliver and pledge to the Collateral Trustees hereunder such note or instrument or chattel paper duly indorsed or accompanied by duly executed instruments of transfer or assignment, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees, (iii) execute or authenticate and file such financing or continuation statements, or amendments thereto, and such other instruments or notices, as may be necessary or desirable, or as the Collateral Trustees may request, in order to perfect the security interest granted or purported to be granted by such Grantor hereunder, (iv) deliver and pledge to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders certificates representing Security Collateral that constitutes certificated securities, accompanied by undated stock or bond powers executed in blank, (v) take all action necessary to ensure that the Collateral Trustees have control of Collateral consisting of deposit accounts, investment property, letter-of-credit rights and transferable records as provided in Sections 9-104, 9-105, 9-106 and 9-107 of the UCC, and (vi) deliver to the Collateral Trustees evidence that all other action that the Collateral Trustees may deem reasonably necessary or desirable in order to perfect the security interest created by such Grantor under this Agreement and the other Shared Collateral Documents has been taken. (b) (i) Each Grantor hereby authorizes the Collateral Trustees to file one or more financing or continuation statements relating to all or any part of the Collateral of such Grantor, and amendments thereto to correct the name and address of the Grantor or the Collateral Trustees or to correct the description of the Collateral contained therein to be consistent with the description of the Collateral contained in this Agreement, in each case without the signature of such Grantor where permitted by law and which shall be filed by the Collateral Trustees upon the receipt of an instruction letter from the Required Representatives requesting the taking of such action and attaching the form of financing statement. A photocopy or other reproduction of this Agreement or any financing statement covering the Collateral or any part thereof shall be sufficient as a financing statement where permitted by law. (ii) Each Grantor ratifies its authorization for the Collateral Trustees to have filed such financing statements, continuation statements or amendments, to the extent such amendments are permitted pursuant to clause (i) above, filed prior to the date hereof. (c) Each Grantor will furnish to the Collateral Trustees from time to time statements and schedules further identifying and describing the Collateral of such Grantor and such other reports in connection with such Collateral as the Collateral Trustees may reasonably request, all in reasonable detail. 14
Section 9. Post-Closing Changes; Collections on Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts. (a) No Grantor will change its name, type of organization, jurisdiction of organization, organizational identification number or location from those set forth in Section 7(a) of this Agreement without first giving at least 30 days' prior written notice to the Collateral Trustees and taking all action required by the Collateral Trustees for the purpose of perfecting or protecting the security interest granted by this Agreement. The Borrower will not change the location of the place where it keeps the originals of the Assigned Agreements and Related Contracts to which the Borrower is a party and all originals of all chattel paper that evidence Receivables of the Borrower from the locations therefor specified in Section 7(a) without first giving the Collateral Trustees 30 days' prior written notice of such change. No Grantor will become bound by a security agreement authenticated by another Person (determined as provided in Section 9-203(d) of the UCC) without giving the Collateral Trustees 30 days' prior written notice thereof and taking all action required by the Collateral Trustees to ensure that the perfection and first priority nature of the Collateral Trustees' security interest in the Collateral will be maintained. Each Grantor will hold and preserve its records relating to the Collateral, including, without limitation, the Assigned Agreements and Related Contracts, and will permit representatives of the Collateral Trustees at any time during normal business hours to inspect and make abstracts from such records and other documents. If the Grantor does not have an organizational identification number and later obtains one, it will forthwith notify the Collateral Trustees of such organizational identification number. (b) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection (b), each Grantor will continue to collect, at its own expense, all amounts due or to become due such Grantor under the Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts. In connection with such collections, such Grantor may take (and, at the Collateral Trustees' direction, will take) such action as such Grantor may deem necessary or advisable to enforce collection of the Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts; provided, however, that the Collateral Trustees shall have the right at any time, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Collateral Trust Agreement Default and upon written notice to such Grantor of its intention to do so, to notify the Obligors under any Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts of the assignment of such Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts to the Collateral Trustees and to direct such Obligors to make payment of all amounts due or to become due to such Grantor thereunder directly to the Collateral Trustees and, upon such notification and at the expense of such Grantor, to enforce collection of any such Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts, to adjust, settle or compromise the amount or payment thereof, in the same manner and to the same extent as such Grantor might have done, and to otherwise exercise all rights with respect to such Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts, including, without limitation, those set forth set forth in Section 9-607 of the UCC. After receipt by any Grantor of the notice from the Collateral Trustees referred to in the proviso to the preceding sentence, (i) all amounts and proceeds (including, without limitation, instruments) received by such Grantor in respect of the Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts of such Grantor shall be received in trust for the benefit of the Collateral Trustees hereunder, shall be segregated from other funds of such Grantor and shall be forthwith paid over to the Collateral Trustees in the same form as so received (with any necessary indorsement) to be held as cash collateral in the Collateral Account and either (A) released to such Grantor so long as no Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing or (B) upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, the Collateral Trustees shall, upon 15
receipt of a written notice from the Required Representatives, apply such cash collateral as provided in the Collateral Trust Agreement and (ii) such Grantor will not adjust, settle or compromise the amount or payment of any Receivable or amount due on any Assigned Agreement or Related Contract, release wholly or partly any Obligor thereof, or allow any credit or discount thereon. No Grantor will permit or consent to the subordination of its right to payment under any of the Assigned Agreements, Receivables and Related Contracts to any other indebtedness or obligations of the Obligor thereof. Section 10. Voting Rights; Dividends; Etc. (a) So long as no Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing: (i) Each Grantor shall be entitled to exercise any and all voting and other consensual rights pertaining to the Security Collateral of such Grantor or any part thereof for any purpose; provided, however, that such Grantor will not exercise or refrain from exercising any such right if such action would have a material adverse effect on the value of the Security Collateral or any part thereof. (ii) Each Grantor shall be entitled to receive and retain any and all dividends, interest and other distributions paid in respect of the Security Collateral of such Grantor if and to the extent that the payment thereof is not otherwise prohibited by the terms of the Applicable Agreements; provided, however, that any and all dividends, interest and other distributions paid or payable other than in cash in respect of, and instruments and other property received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of, or in exchange for, any Security Collateral, shall be, and shall be forthwith delivered to the Collateral Trustees to hold as Security Collateral and shall, if received by such Grantor, be received in trust for the benefit of the Collateral Trustees, be segregated from the other property or funds of such Grantor and be forthwith delivered to the Collateral Trustees as Security Collateral in the same form as so received (with any necessary indorsement). (iii) The Collateral Trustees will execute and deliver (or cause to be executed and delivered) to each Grantor all such proxies and other instruments as such Grantor may reasonably request for the purpose of enabling such Grantor to exercise the voting and other rights that it is entitled to exercise pursuant to paragraph (i) above and to receive the dividends or interest payments that it is authorized to receive and retain pursuant to paragraph (ii) above. (b) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default: (i) All rights of each Grantor (x) to exercise or refrain from exercising the voting and other consensual rights that it would otherwise be entitled to exercise pursuant to Section 10(a)(i) shall, upon notice to such Grantor by the Collateral Trustees, cease and (y) to receive the dividends, interest and other distributions that it would otherwise be authorized to receive and retain pursuant to Section 10(a)(ii) shall automatically cease, and, subject to the Remedies Limitations, all such rights shall thereupon become vested in the Collateral Trustees, who shall thereupon have the sole right to exercise or refrain from exercising such voting and other consensual rights and to receive and hold as 16
Collateral such dividends, interest and other distributions and shall deposit the same into the Collateral Account; and (ii) All dividends, interest and other distributions that are received by any Grantor contrary to the provisions of paragraph (i) of this Section 10(b) shall be received in trust for the benefit of the Collateral Trustees, shall be segregated from other funds of such Grantor and shall be forthwith paid over to the Collateral Trustees to be deposited into the Collateral Account. Section 11. As to the Assigned Agreements. (a) The Borrower will at its expense: (i) perform and observe all terms and provisions of the Assigned Agreements to be performed or observed by it, maintain the Assigned Agreements to which it is a party in full force and effect, enforce the Assigned Agreements to which it is a party in accordance with the terms thereof and take all such action to such end as may be requested from time to time by the Collateral Trustees; and (ii) furnish to the Collateral Trustees promptly upon receipt thereof copies of all notices, requests and other documents received by the Borrower under or pursuant to the Assigned Agreements to which it is a party, and from time to time (A) furnish to the Collateral Trustees such information and reports regarding the Assigned Agreements and such other Collateral of the Borrower as the Collateral Trustees may reasonably request and (B) upon request of the Collateral Trustees make to each other party to any Assigned Agreement to which it is a party such demands and requests for information and reports or for action as the Borrower is entitled to make thereunder. (b) The Borrower agrees that it will not, except to the extent otherwise permitted under the Applicable Agreements: (i) cancel or terminate any Assigned Agreement to which it is a party or consent to or accept any cancellation or termination thereof; (ii) amend, amend and restate, supplement or otherwise modify any such Assigned Agreement or give any consent, waiver or approval thereunder; (iii) waive any default under or breach of any such Assigned Agreement; or (iv) take any other action in connection with any such Assigned Agreement that would impair the value of the interests or rights of the Borrower thereunder or that would impair the interests or rights of any Applicable Holder. Section 12. Payments Under the Assigned Agreements; Letters of Credit. (a) The Borrower agrees, and has effectively so instructed each other party to each Assigned Agreement to which it is a party, that all payments due or to become due under or in connection with such Assigned Agreement will be made directly to a Deposit Account. 17
(b) Upon the occurrence of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, each Grantor will, promptly upon request by the Collateral Trustees, (i) notify (and such Grantor hereby authorizes the Collateral Trustees to notify) the issuer and each nominated person with respect to each of the Related Contracts consisting of letters of credit that the proceeds thereof have been assigned to the Collateral Trustees hereunder and any payments due or to become due in respect thereof are to be made directly to the Collateral Trustees or their designee and (ii) arrange for the Collateral Trustees to become the transferee beneficiaries of letters of credit. Section 13. Transfers and Other Liens; Additional Shares. (a) Each Grantor agrees that it will not (i) sell, assign or otherwise dispose of, or grant any option with respect to, any of the Collateral, other than sales, assignments and other dispositions of Collateral, and options relating to Collateral, permitted under the terms of the Applicable Agreements or (ii) create or suffer to exist any Lien upon or with respect to any of the Collateral of such Grantor except for the pledge, assignment and security interest created under this Agreement, and permitted under the Credit Agreement or any other Applicable Agreements. (b) Each Grantor agrees that it will (i) cause each issuer of the Pledged Equity pledged by such Grantor not to issue any Equity Interests or other securities in substitution for the Pledged Equity issued by such issuer, except to such Grantor and (ii) pledge hereunder, immediately upon its acquisition (directly or indirectly) thereof, any and all additional Equity Interests or other securities of each issuer of the Pledged Equity issued to such Grantor. Section 14. Collateral Trustees May Perform. If any Grantor fails to perform any agreement contained herein, the Collateral Trustees may, but without any obligation to do so and without notice, themselves perform, or cause performance of, such agreement, and the expenses of the Collateral Trustees incurred in connection therewith shall be payable by such Grantor under Section 16. Section 15. Remedies. If a Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing: (a) Subject to the Remedies Limitations, the Collateral Trustees may with the consent of the Required Representatives, and shall at the request of the Required Representatives, exercise in respect of the Collateral, in addition to other rights and remedies provided for herein or otherwise available to it, all the rights and remedies of a secured party upon default under the UCC (whether or not the UCC applies to the affected Collateral) and also may: (i) require each Grantor to, and each Grantor hereby agrees that it will at its expense and upon request of the Collateral Trustees forthwith, assemble all or part of the Collateral as directed by the Collateral Trustees and make it available to the Collateral Trustees at a place and time to be designated by the Collateral Trustees that is reasonably convenient to all parties, (ii) without notice except as specified below, sell the Collateral or any part thereof in one or more parcels at public or private sale, at any of the Collateral Trustees' offices or elsewhere, for cash, on credit or for future delivery, and upon such other terms as the Collateral Trustees may deem commercially reasonable, and (iii) exercise any and all rights and remedies of any of the Grantors under or in connection with the Collateral, or otherwise in respect of the Collateral, including, without limitation, (A) any and all rights of such Grantor to demand 18
or otherwise require payment of any amount under, or performance of any provision of, the Assigned Agreements, the Receivables, the Related Contracts and the other Collateral, (B) withdraw, or cause or direct the withdrawal, of all funds with respect to the Account Collateral and (C) exercise all other rights and remedies with respect to the Assigned Agreements, the Receivables, the Related Contracts and the other Collateral, including, without limitation, those set forth in Section 9-607 of the UCC. Each Grantor agrees that, to the extent notice of sale shall be required by law, at least ten days' notice to such Grantor of the time and place of any public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall constitute reasonable notification. The Collateral Trustees shall not be obligated to make any sale of Collateral regardless of notice of sale having been given. The Collateral Trustees may adjourn any public or private sale from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed therefor, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which it was so adjourned. (b) Any cash held by or on behalf of the Collateral Trustees and all cash proceeds received by or on behalf of the Collateral Trustees in respect of any sale of, collection from, or other realization upon all or any part of the Collateral may, in the discretion of the Collateral Trustees, be held by the Collateral Trustees as collateral for, and/or then or at any time thereafter applied (after payment of any amounts payable to the Collateral Trustees pursuant to Section 16) in whole or in part by the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders against, all or any part of the Secured Obligations, in accordance with the terms of the Collateral Trust Agreement. (c) All payments received by the Borrower under or in connection with any Assigned Agreement or otherwise in respect of the Collateral shall be received in trust for the benefit of the Collateral Trustees, shall be segregated from other funds of such Grantor and shall be forthwith paid over to the Collateral Trustees in the same form as so received (with any necessary indorsement). (d) The Collateral Trustees may, without notice to the Borrower except as required by law and at any time or from time to time, charge, set-off and otherwise apply all or any part of the Secured Obligations against any funds held in the Collateral Account or in any other deposit account of the Borrower in accordance with clause (b) above. (e) If the Collateral Trustees shall determine to exercise their right to sell all or any of the Security Collateral of any Grantor pursuant to this Section 15, each Grantor agrees that, upon request of the Collateral Trustees and subject to the Remedies Limitations, such Grantor will, at its own expense: (i) execute and deliver, and cause each issuer of such Security Collateral contemplated to be sold and the directors and officers thereof to execute and deliver, all such instruments and documents, and do or cause to be done all such other acts and things, as may be necessary or, in the opinion of the Collateral Trustees, advisable to register such Security Collateral under the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 (as amended from time to time, the 19
"Securities Act"), to cause the registration statement relating thereto to become effective and to remain effective for such period as prospectuses are required by law to be furnished and to make all amendments and supplements thereto and to the related prospectus that, in the opinion of the Collateral Trustees, are necessary or advisable, all in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable thereto; (ii) use its best efforts to qualify the Security Collateral under the state securities or "Blue Sky" laws and to obtain all necessary governmental approvals for the sale of such Security Collateral, as requested by the Collateral Trustees; (iii) cause each such issuer of such Security Collateral to make available to its security holders, as soon as practicable, an earnings statement that will satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act; (iv) provide the Collateral Trustees with such other information and projections as may be necessary or, in the opinion of the Collateral Trustees, advisable to enable the Collateral Trustees to effect the sale of such Security Collateral; and (v) do or cause to be done all such other acts and things as may be necessary to make such sale of such Security Collateral or any part thereof valid and binding and in compliance with applicable law. (f) The Collateral Trustees are authorized, in connection with any sale of the Security Collateral pursuant to this Section 16, to deliver or otherwise disclose to any prospective purchaser of the Security Collateral: (i) any registration statement or prospectus, and all supplements and amendments thereto, prepared pursuant to subsection (e)(i) above, (ii) any information and projections provided to it pursuant to subsection (e)(iv) above and (iii) any other information in its possession relating to such Security Collateral. (g) Each Grantor acknowledges the impossibility of ascertaining the amount of damages that would be suffered by the Secured Holders by reason of the failure by such Grantor to perform any of the covenants contained in subsection (e) above and, consequently, agrees that, if such Grantor shall fail to perform any of such covenants, it will pay, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to the value of the Security Collateral on the date the Collateral Trustees shall demand compliance with subsection (e) above. Section 16. Indemnity and Expenses. (a) Each Grantor agrees to indemnify, defend and save and hold harmless the Collateral Trustees, each Representative and each Secured Holder and each of their Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "Indemnified Party") from and against, and shall pay on demand, any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) that may be incurred by or asserted or awarded against 20
any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or resulting from this Agreement (including, without limitation, enforcement of this Agreement) or any other Shared Collateral Document except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Indemnified Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct. (b) Each Grantor will upon demand pay to the Collateral Trustees the amount of any and all reasonable expenses, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of their counsel and of any experts and agents, that the Collateral Trustees may incur in connection with (i) the administration of this Agreement, (ii) the custody, preservation, use or operation of, or the sale of, collection from or other realization upon, any of the Collateral of such Grantor, (iii) the exercise or enforcement of any of the rights of the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives or the other Secured Holders hereunder or (iv) the failure by such Grantor to perform or observe any of the provisions hereof. Section 17. Amendments; Waivers; Additional Grantors; Etc. (a) No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, and no consent to any departure by any Grantor herefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall (i) be in writing and signed by the Collateral Trustees and (ii) otherwise comply with Section 9.01 of the Collateral Trust Agreement, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given. No failure on the part of the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives or any other Secured Holders to exercise, and no delay in exercising any right hereunder, shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. (b) Upon the execution and delivery, or authentication, by any Person of a security agreement supplement in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto (each a "Security Agreement Supplement"), (i) such Person shall be referred to as an "Additional Grantor" and shall be and become a Grantor hereunder, and each reference in this Agreement and the other Secured Agreements to "Grantor" shall also mean and be a reference to such Additional Grantor, and each reference in this Agreement and the other Secured Agreements to "Collateral" shall also mean and be a reference to the Supplemental Collateral (as defined in the Security Agreement Supplement) of such Additional Grantor and (ii) the supplemental schedules IV attached to each Security Agreement Supplement shall be incorporated into and become a part of and supplement Schedules IV, respectively, hereto, and the Collateral Trustees may attach such supplemental schedules to such Schedules; and each reference to such Schedules shall mean and be a reference to such Schedules as supplemented pursuant to each Security Agreement Supplement. Section 18. Notices, Etc. All notices, demands, requests, and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including telegraphic, telecopier or telex communication) and mailed, telegraphed, telecopied, telexed or delivered to, in the case of any Representative, or the Collateral Trustees, addressed to each at their respective address specified in the Collateral Trust Agreement, in the case of the Borrower, addressed to it at its address specified in the Credit Agreement and, in the case of each Grantor other than the Borrower, addressed to it at its address set forth opposite such Grantor's name on the signature pages hereto or on the signature page to the Security Agreement Supplement pursuant to which it 21
became a party hereto; or, as to any party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties. All such notices and other communications shall, when mailed, telegraphed, telecopied or telexed, be effective when deposited in the mails, delivered to the telegraph company, telecopied or confirmed by telex answerback, respectively, addressed as aforesaid; except that notices and other communications to the Collateral Trustees shall not be effective until received by the Collateral Trustees. Delivery by telecopier of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or of any Security Agreement Supplement or Schedule hereto shall be effective as delivery of an original executed counterpart thereof. Section 19. Continuing Security Interest; Assignments under the Credit Agreement. This Agreement shall create a continuing security interest in the Collateral and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until all of the Collateral is released, and this Agreement is terminated, in accordance with Section 8.02 of the Collateral Trust Agreement, (b) be binding upon each Grantor, its successors and assigns and (c) inure, together with the rights and remedies of the Collateral Trustees hereunder, to the benefit of the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives on behalf of themselves and on behalf of the Secured Holders and their respective successors, transferees and assigns. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing clause (c), any Bank Party may assign or otherwise transfer all or any portion of its rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, all or any portion of its Revolving Credit Loan Commitment, the Loans owing to it and the Note or Notes, if any, held by it) to any other Person, and such other Person shall thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect thereof granted to such Bank Party in the Shared Collateral Documents or otherwise, in each case as provided in Section 10.06 of the Credit Agreement. Section 20. Release; Termination. The Collateral Trustees shall release all or any portion of the Collateral solely on terms and subject to the conditions set forth in Article 8 of the Collateral Trust Agreement. Section 21. Security Interest Absolute The obligations of each Grantor under this Agreement are independent of the Secured Obligations or any other obligations of any other Loan Party under or in respect of the Credit Agreement Documents and the Shared Collateral Documents, and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against each Grantor to enforce this Agreement, irrespective of whether any action is brought against such Grantor or any other Loan Party or whether such Grantor or any other Loan Party is joined in any such action or actions. All rights of the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the other Secured Holders and the pledge, assignment and security interest hereunder and under the other Shared Collateral Documents, and all obligations of each Grantor hereunder, shall be irrevocable, absolute and unconditional irrespective of, and each Grantor hereby irrevocably waives (to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law) any defenses it may now have or may hereafter acquire in any way relating to, any or all of the following: (a) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Secured Agreement or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; (b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Secured Obligations or any other Obligations of any other Loan 22
Party under or in respect of the Secured Agreements or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to any departure from any Secured Agreement, including, without limitation, any increase in the Secured Obligations resulting from the extension of additional credit to any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries or otherwise; (c) any taking, exchange, release or non-perfection of any Collateral or any other collateral, or any taking, release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any guaranty, for all or any of the Secured Obligations; (d) any manner of application of any Collateral or any other collateral, or proceeds thereof, to all or any of the Secured Obligations, or any manner of sale or other disposition of any Collateral or any other collateral for all or any of the Secured Obligations or any other Obligations of any other Grantor under or in respect of the Secured Agreements or any other assets of any Grantor or any of its Subsidiaries; (e) any change, restructuring or termination of the corporate structure or existence of any Grantor or any of its Subsidiaries; (f) any failure of any Secured Holder to disclose to any Grantor any information relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, assets, nature of assets, liabilities or prospects of any other Grantor now or hereafter known to such Secured Holder (each Grantor waiving any duty on the part of the Secured Holders to disclose such information); (g) the failure of any other Person to execute this Agreement or any other Shared Collateral Document, guaranty or agreement or the release (other than as provided in Section 20) or reduction of liability of any Grantor or other grantor or surety with respect to the Secured Obligations; or (h) any other circumstance (including, without limitation, any statute of limitations) or any existence of or reliance on any representation by any Secured Holder that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, such Grantor or any other Grantor or a third party grantor of a security interest. This Agreement shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Secured Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the Collateral Trustees, any Representative or any Secured Holder upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Grantor or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made. Section 22. Additional Secured Obligations. Each of the Grantors, the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the Secured Holders acknowledges and agrees that the Collateral hereunder may secure additional Obligations of the Borrower in respect of the incurrence of new Debt by the Borrower or the refinancing, extension, or renewal of certain Debt of the Borrower, in each case, only as permitted by the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. Upon the execution and delivery to the Collateral Trustees of an acknowledgement by the Persons to whom the obligations referred to in the immediately preceding sentence are owed, in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees, that (i) such Persons 23
acknowledge the terms and conditions of this Agreement and agree to be bound thereby and (ii) such Persons agree to pay their ratable share of the fees and expenses of the Collateral Trustees and to ratably indemnify the Collateral Trustees, in each case, on terms and conditions similar to those contained in the Credit Agreement, such Persons shall become "Secured Holders" hereunder and shall be entitled to share ratably in the Collateral for all purposes hereunder. Section 23. Execution in Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of an original executed counterpart of this Agreement. Section 24. Limitation of Liability. Each Grantor, and by its acceptance of this Agreement, the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the Secured Holders, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such Persons that this Agreement and the Obligations of the Grantors hereunder not constitute a fraudulent conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar foreign, federal or state law to the extent applicable to this Agreement and the Obligations of the Grantors hereunder. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the Secured Holders and the Grantors hereby irrevocably agree that the Obligations of the Grantors under this Agreement at any time shall be limited to the maximum amount as will result in the Obligations of the Grantors under this Agreement not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. Section 25. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. Section 26. Submission to Jurisdiction and Waiver. (a) Each Grantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the other Secured Agreements to which it is or is to be a party, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. Each Grantor agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement in the courts of any jurisdiction. (b) Each Grantor irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement to which it is or is to be a party in any New York State or federal court. Each 24
Grantor hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such suit, action or proceeding in any such court. (c) EACH GRANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE LOANS OR THE ACTIONS OF ANY BANKS IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT THEREOF. [SIGNATURE PAGES IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW] 25
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Grantor has caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written. THE AES CORPORATION By: ----------------------- Title: Acknowledged on the date hereof by: WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, as Corporate Trustee By: ---------------------------------- Title: BRUCE L. BISSON, as Individual Trustee By: ---------------------------------- Title: WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Exchange Note Trustee By: ---------------------------------- Title: CITICORP USA, INC., as Administrative Agent By: ---------------------------------- Title: BANKBOSTON, N.A., NASSAU BRANCH, as Sul Agent By: ---------------------------------- Title:
FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as Lake Worth LOC Bank By: ---------------------------------- Title:

EXHIBIT 4.4 EXECUTION COPY 12 December 2002 AES International Holdings II, Ltd. (as Chargor) and Wilmington Trust Company (as Corporate Trustee) and Bruce L. Bisson (as Individual Trustee) CHARGE OVER SHARES in AES El Salvador Ltd. and AES South American Holdings Ltd.
CHARGE AND ASSIGNMENT OF SHARES THIS CHARGE AND ASSIGNMENT is made on the 12th day of December 2002 BETWEEN: (1) AES International Holdings II, Ltd., a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, the registered office of which is at the offices of Citco Building, Wickhams Cay, P.O. Box 662, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands (the "Chargor"); and (2) Wilmington Trust Company, a banking corporation organized in Delaware, of Rodney Square North, 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, DE 19890 (the "Corporate Trustee") and Bruce L. Bisson, an individual residing in the State of Delaware (the "Individual Trustee"; and together with the Corporate Trustee, the "Collateral Trustees"), as trustees under the Collateral Trust Agreement dated 12 December 2002 (as such agreement may be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified hereafter from time to time, the "Collateral Trust Agreement") among the Grantors (as defined in the Security Agreement), the Chargor and the Collateral Trustees. WHEREAS: (1) The AES Corporation (the "Borrower") has entered into an Amended and Restated Credit, Reimbursement and Exchange Agreement dated as of 12 December 2002 (said Agreement, as it may hereafter be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being the "Credit Agreement") with the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, the Banks party thereto (the "Banks"), the Revolving Fronting Banks and the Drax LOC Fronting Bank party thereto, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent for the Bank Parties (in such capacity, the "Agent") and as Collateral Agent for the Bank Parties (in such capacity, the "Credit Agreement Collateral Agent"; and together with the Agent, the "Agents"). (2) Terms defined in the Credit Agreement, the Security Agreement (referred to below) or the Collateral Trust Agreement and not otherwise defined in this Charge or in Section 1 hereof, are used in this Charge as defined in the Credit Agreement, the Security Agreement or the Collateral Trust Agreement. (3) In order to induce the Banks, the Revolving Fronting Banks, the Drax LOC Fronting Banks and the Agents to enter into the Credit Agreement, the Chargor has agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral (as hereinafter defined) to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Lender Parties to secure the Obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the Notes issued pursuant thereto.
(4) The Borrower will enter into an Indenture to be dated as of 13 December 2002 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect on the date hereof and as the same may hereafter be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the terms thereof, the "Exchange Note Indenture") with Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association (the "Exchange Note Trustee") to exchange the Borrower's (i) 8.75% Senior Notes due 2002 and (ii) the 7.375% Remarketable or Redeemable Securities due 2013 for the 10% Senior Secured Exchange Notes due 2005 to be issued on December 13, 2002 (the "Exchange Notes", and together with the Exchange Note Indenture (only to the extent relating to the Exchange Notes), the "Exchange Note Agreements"). (5) In order to induce the Exchange Note Trustee to enter into the Exchange Note Indenture, the Chargor has agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Exchange Note Holders to secure the Obligations of the Borrower under the Exchange Note Agreements (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement). (6) The Borrower and certain other Persons party thereto (the "Grantors") have entered into a Security Agreement dated 12 December 2002 in favor of the Collateral Trustees (said agreement, as it may hereafter be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, being the "Security Agreement") pursuant to which the Grantors have granted to the Collateral Trustees, for their benefit and in trust for the equitable and ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement), a lien and security interest in certain collateral of the Grantors. (7) The Borrower has entered into a Sponsor Agreement dated as of 7 March 2000 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect on the date hereof and as the same may hereafter be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the terms thereof, the "Sponsor Agreement") with BankBoston, N.A., Nassau Branch, as agent (the "Sul Agent"), pursuant to which the Borrower has agreed to guarantee the obligations of AES Cayman Guaiba, Ltd. under a Credit Agreement dated as of 6 March 2001 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect on the date hereof and as the same may hereafter be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the terms thereof, the "Sul Credit Agreement") with BankBoston, N.A., Nassau Branch, Banc of America Securities, LLC, Unibanco-Uniao de Bancos Brasilieros S.A. and WestLB AG, New York Branch and the lenders named therein (collectively, the "Sul Guaranteed Parties"), in an amount of up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000,000 (together with any other agreement or instrument delivered in connection with such guaranty, the "Sul Guarantee"). (8) In order to satisfy certain conditions under the Sul Guarantee, the Chargor has agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Sul Guaranteed Parties to secure the Obligations of the Borrower under the Sul Guarantee in an amount of up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000,000.
(9) The Borrower has entered into a Gas Transportation Agreement dated as of July 21, 2000 with Florida Public Utilities Company pursuant to which Fleet National Bank (the "Lake Worth LOC Bank") issued in favour of Florida Public Utilities Company irrevocable standby letter of credit number 1S1280134 (together with the application and agreement therefor dated on or about July 6, 2001, the "Lake Worth Letter of Credit") in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,490,449. (10) In order to satisfy certain conditions under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, the Chargor has agreed to grant a continuing security interest in and to the Collateral to the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Lake Worth LOC Bank to secure the obligation of Lake Worth Generation LLC ("Lake Worth"), a Subsidiary of the Borrower, to reimburse the Lake Worth LOC Bank for any drawings under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit in an amount of up to a maximum aggregate amount of $5,490,449. (11) It is a condition precedent to (a) the continuation of the Loans by the Banks and the making of Revolving Credit Loans by the Revolving Credit Loan Banks, (b) the issuance (or be deemed to have issued) of Revolving Letters of Credit by the Revolving Fronting Banks, (c) the deemed issuance of the Drax Letter of Credit and the making of Drax Loans in respect of Drax L/C Drawings by the Drax LOC Fronting Banks, (d) the entry into the Secured Hedge Agreements by the Hedge Banks from time to time, (e) the entry into the Secured Treasury Management Service Agreements by a Bank Party or any Affiliate thereof, (f) the entry into the Exchange Note Indenture by the Exchange Note Trustee, (g) the satisfaction by the Borrower of its obligations under the Sul Guarantee, (h) the satisfaction by Lake Worth of its obligations under the Lake Worth Letter of Credit, (i) the acknowledgement of the Security Agreement by the Collateral Trustees and (j) the entry into the Collateral Trust Agreement by the Collateral Trustees that the Chargor shall have granted the assignment and security interest and made the pledge and assignment contemplated by this Charge. IT IS AGREED as follows: 1 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION 1.1 The following words and expressions shall have the following meanings: "Charged Shares" means the shares to be charged as set out in Schedule 1 hereto and any other shares of the Companies now or at any time in the future beneficially owned by the Chargor or in which the Chargor has any interest and all additional shares of or in any new direct Subsidiary of the Chargor formed or acquired by the Chargor in any manner after the date of this Charge to the extent such new Subsidiary is a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands; provided, that the term "Charged Shares" shall not include, as to the Chargor, more than 65% of the outstanding voting shares of any of the Companies.
"Collateral" has the meaning given to it in Clause 3. "Companies" means AES El Salvador Ltd. and AES South American Holdings Ltd., each a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and any new direct Subsidiary of the Chargor formed or acquired by the Chargor in any manner after the date of this Charge to the extent such new Subsidiary is a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands or in any other jurisdiction. "Receiver" has the meaning given to it in Clause 8. "Security Interest" means the security interest in the Collateral granted hereunder securing the Secured Obligations. 1.2 In this Charge: 1.2.1 any reference to a Recital, Clause or Schedule is to the relevant Recital, Clause or Schedule of or to this Charge and any reference to a sub-clause or paragraph is to the relevant sub-clause or paragraph of the Clause or Schedule in which it appears; 1.2.2 the clause headings are included for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Charge; 1.2.3 use of the singular includes the plural and vice versa; 1.2.4 use of any gender includes the other genders; 1.2.5 any phrase introduced by the terms "including", "include", "in particular" or any similar expression shall be construed as illustrative and shall not limit the sense of the words preceding those terms; and 1.2.6 references to any document or agreement are to be construed as references to such document or agreement as is in force for the time being and as amended, varied supplemented, substituted or novated from time to time. 1.3 The Recitals and Schedules form part of this Charge and shall have effect as if set out in full in the body of this Charge and any reference to this Charge includes the Recitals and Schedules.
2 CHARGED SHARES The Chargor represents and warrants as follows as of the date of this Charge and on any date on which additional or new shares of the Companies become the subject of this Charge. 2.1 The Chargor owns all of the Charged Shares, free and clear of any Liens other than the Security Interest created by this Charge. All of the Charged Shares have been duly authorised and validly issued, and are fully paid and non-assessable, and are subject to no rights or options to purchase of any Person. The Chargor is not and will not become a party to or otherwise bound by any agreement, other than this Charge, which restricts in any manner the rights of any present or future holder of any of the Charged Shares with respect thereto. 2.2 This Charge constitutes its legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligation and is a first priority security interest over the Charged Shares effective in accordance with its terms. 2.3 (a) The execution, delivery, recordation, filing or performance by the Chargor of this Charge, (b) the grant by the Chargor of the Liens granted by it pursuant to this Charge, (c) the perfection or maintenance of the Liens created under this Charge (including the first priority nature thereof), (d) the exercise by the Collateral Trustees of their voting or other rights provided for in this Charge and (e) the exercise by the Collateral Trustees of their remedies in respect of the Collateral pursuant to this Charge and the other Shared Collateral Documents, will not require any consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or any notice to or filing with, any court, regulatory body, administrative agency or other governmental body (other than any consent, approval, authorization, order, notice or filing, the failure of which to make or obtain could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect), and will not conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the charter, by-laws or memorandum and articles of association of the Borrower, the Chargor or the other Pledged Subsidiaries or any agreement, indenture or other instrument to which the Borrower, the Chargor or any other Pledged Subsidiary is a party or by which the Borrower, the Chargor and the other Pledged Subsidiaries, or any of the Borrower's, the Chargor's or the other Pledged Subsidiaries' respective property is bound, or violate or conflict with any laws, administrative regulations or rulings or court decrees applicable to the Borrower, the Chargor or any of the other Pledged Subsidiaries or the Borrower's, the Chargor's or the other Pledged Subsidiaries' respective property, except for any violation, breach, conflict or default that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and except that in the foregoing cases, (A) any foreclosure or other exercise of remedies by the Collateral Trustees will require additional approvals and consents that have not been obtained from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of one or more Subsidiaries, and the failure to obtain such approval or consent could result in a default under, or breach of, agreements or other legal obligations of such Subsidiary and (B) disposition of any of
the Collateral may be subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals and to laws affecting the offering and sale of securities generally (the exceptions described in the foregoing clauses (A) and (B) are referred to herein as "Remedies Limitations"). 2.4 As of this date, there is no action or proceeding pending or, to its knowledge, threatened against the Chargor or the Companies, before any court or governmental authority or arbitrator, which could affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Charge. 3 CHARGE 3.1 The Chargor, in order to secure the Secured Obligations, hereby charges by way of first fixed charge as a continuing security for the payment and discharge of the Secured Obligations, all its right, title, interest and benefit present and future in, to and under the Charged Shares and all proceeds, income and profits thereon, and all interest, dividends and other payments and distributions with respect thereto (the "Collateral") subject to the provisions for release of this Charge set out below. 3.2 This Charge secures the payment of all Secured Obligations of the Borrower and the Chargor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Charge secures, as to the Chargor, the payment of all amounts that constitute part of the Secured Obligations and that would be owed by the Chargor but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving the Chargor. 3.3 The Security Interest is granted as security only and shall not subject the Collateral Trustees and Representatives or any other Secured Holder to, or transfer or in any way affect or modify, any obligation or liability of the Chargor with respect to any of the Collateral or any transaction in connection therewith. 4 COVENANTS BY THE CHARGOR So long as any of the Secured Obligations remain outstanding, any Revolving Letter of Credit or the Drax Letter of Credit shall be outstanding, or any Revolving Credit Loan Bank has a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment, the Chargor covenants that: 4.1 it shall forthwith and from time to time deposit with the Collateral Trustees all certificates and other documents of title relating to the Charged Shares; 4.2 it shall deliver to the Collateral Trustees as security in accordance with the terms of this Charge the following (on the date hereof and on any date on which additional or new shares of the Companies become the subject of this Charge): 4.2.1 original share certificate in respect of the Charged Shares;
4.2.2 blank, signed and undated share transfer certificates in respect of the Charged Shares in the forms set out in Schedule 2 to this Charge; 4.2.3 a shareholder proxy in favour of the Collateral Trustees in the forms set out in Schedule 3 to this Charge in respect of Charged Shares; 4.2.4 executed but undated letters of resignation and release together with letters of authority to date the same from each of the directors, alternate directors and officers of the Companies appointed by the Chargor in the forms set out in Parts I and II of Schedule 4 to this Charge; and 4.2.5 an undertaking from the Company to register transfers of the Charged Shares to the Chargee or its nominee in the form set out in Schedule 5 to this Charge. 4.3 upon the issue of additional Charged Shares which become the subject of this charge it shall provide the Collateral Trustees, for the benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders, with an opinion of the General Counsel of AES that such additional Charged Shares are duly authorised and validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable (or the equivalent thereof) and are subject to no rights or options to purchase of any Person. 5 FILING; FURTHER ASSURANCES Subject to the Remedies Limitations, the Chargor agrees that it will, at its expense and in such manner and form as the Collateral Trustees may reasonably require, execute, deliver, file and record any financing statement, specific assignment or other paper and take any other action that may be necessary or that the Collateral Trustees may reasonably request and that is within the power of the Chargor, consistent with its currently existing contractual and other legal obligations, in order to create, preserve, perfect or validate the Security Interest or to enable the Collateral Trustees to exercise and enforce their rights hereunder with respect to any of the Collateral; and notwithstanding the generality of such provisions, the Chargor covenants that immediately following execution of this Charge it shall deliver to the Collateral Trustee a copy of the Chargor's complete register of mortgages, charges and other encumbrances as maintained at its registered office, certified as a true copy by the registered agent of the Chargor in the British Virgin Islands containing particulars of the security created hereunder and shall procure that a further copy of the same is submitted for registration with the Registrar of Companies in the British Virgin Islands. The Collateral Trustees may after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default, in their sole discretion, cause any or all of the Charged Shares to be transferred of record into the name of the Collateral Trustees or their nominee. The Chargor will promptly give to the Collateral Trustees copies of any notices or other communications received by it with respect to the Charged Shares registered in the name of the Chargor and the Collateral Trustees will promptly give the Chargor copies of any notices and communications
received by the Collateral Trustees with respect to the Chargor registered in the name of the Collateral Trustees or their nominee. 6 RIGHT TO RECEIVE DISTRIBUTIONS AND RIGHT TO VOTE CHARGED SHARES 6.1 So long as no Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing: 6.1.1 The Chargor shall be entitled to exercise any and all voting and other consensual rights pertaining to the Collateral or any part thereof for any purpose; provided, however, that the Chargor will not exercise or refrain from exercising any such right if such action would have a material adverse effect on the value of the Collateral or any part thereof. 6.1.2 The Chargor shall be entitled to receive and retain any and all dividends, interest and other distributions paid in respect of the Collateral if and to the extent that the payment thereof is not otherwise prohibited by the terms of the Applicable Agreements; provided, however, that any and all dividends, interest and other distributions paid or payable other than in cash in respect of, and instruments and other property received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of, or in exchange for, any Collateral shall be, and shall be forthwith delivered to the Collateral Trustees to hold as Collateral, and shall, if received by the Chargor, be received in trust for the benefit of the Collateral Trustees, be segregated from the other property or funds of the Chargor and be forthwith delivered to the Collateral Trustees as Collateral in the same form as so received (with any necessary indorsement). 6.1.3 The Collateral Trustees will execute and deliver (or cause to be executed and delivered) to the Chargor all such proxies and other instruments as the Chargor may reasonably request for the purpose of enabling the Chargor to exercise the voting and other rights that it is entitled to exercise pursuant to Section 6.1.1 above and to receive the dividends or interest payments that it is authorized to receive and retain pursuant to Section 6.1.2 above. 6.2 Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default: 6.2.1 All rights of the Chargor (x) to exercise or refrain from exercising the voting and other consensual rights that it would otherwise be entitled to exercise pursuant to Section 6.1.1 shall, upon notice to the Chargor by the Collateral Trustees, cease and (y) to receive the dividends, interest and other distributions that it would otherwise be authorized to receive and retain pursuant to Section 6.1.2 shall automatically cease, and, subject to the Remedies Limitations, all such rights shall thereupon become vested in the Collateral Trustees, who shall thereupon have the sole right to exercise or refrain from exercising such voting and
other consensual rights and to receive and hold as Collateral such dividends, interest and other distributions and shall deposit the same into the Collateral Account; and 6.2.2 All dividends, interest and other distributions that are received by the Chargor contrary to the provisions of Section 6.2.1 shall be received in trust for the benefit of the Collateral Trustees, shall be segregated from other funds of the Chargor and shall be forthwith paid over to the Collateral Trustees to be deposited into the Collateral Account. Upon receipt of notice from the Required Representative(s) that all Collateral Trust Agreement Defaults have been cured, the Collateral Trustees' right to retain dividends under this Section 6 shall cease and the Collateral Trustees shall pay over to the Chargor any such Collateral retained by them during the continuance of a Collateral Trust Agreement Default. 7 GENERAL AUTHORITY The Chargor hereby irrevocably appoints the Collateral Trustees its true and lawful attorney, with full power of substitution, in the name of the Chargor, the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the Secured Holders or otherwise, for the sole use and benefit of the Collateral Trustees on behalf of the Representatives and the Secured Holders, but at the expense of the Chargor, to the extent permitted by law to exercise, at any time and from time to time while a Collateral Trust Agreement Default has occurred and is continuing, all or any of the following powers with respect to all or any of the Collateral: (a) to demand, sue for, collect, receive and give acquittance for any and all monies due or to become due upon or by virtue thereof, (b) to settle, compromise, compound, prosecute or defend any action or proceeding with respect thereto, (c) to sell, transfer, assign or otherwise deal in or with the same or the proceeds or avails thereof, as fully and effectually as if the Collateral Trustees were the absolute owner thereof, and (d) to extend the time of payment of any or all thereof and to make any allowance and other adjustments with reference thereto; provided, that the Collateral Trustees shall give the Chargor not less than ten days' prior notice of the time and place of any sale or other intended disposition of any of the Collateral except any Collateral which threatens to decline speedily in value or is of a type customarily sold on a recognized market. 8 RECEIVER If a Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Collateral Trustees may by writing without notice to the Chargor appoint one or more person or persons as the Collateral Trustees think fit to be a receiver (the "Receiver") in relation to the
Collateral. Where the Collateral Trustees appoint two or more persons as Receiver, the Receivers may act jointly or independently. 8.1 The Receiver may take such action in relation to the enforcement of this Charge including, without limitation, to sell, charge or otherwise dispose of the Collateral, to exercise any powers, discretion, voting or other rights or entitlements in relation to the Collateral and generally to carry out any other action which he may in his sole discretion deems necessary in relation to the enforcement of this Charge. 8.2 The Receiver shall have, in addition to the other powers set-out in this Clause, the following powers: 8.2.1 power to take possession of, collect and get in the Collateral and, for that purpose, to take such proceedings as may seem to him to be expedient; 8.2.2 power to raise or borrow money and grant security therefor over the Collateral; 8.2.3 power to appoint an attorney or accountant or other professionally qualified person to assist him in the performance of his functions; 8.2.4 power to bring or defend any action or other legal proceedings in the name of and on behalf of the Chargor in respect of the Collateral; 8.2.5 power to do all acts and execute in the name and on behalf of the Chargor any document or deed in respect of the Collateral; 8.2.6 power to make any payment which is necessary or incidental to the performance of his functions; 8.2.7 power to make any arrangement or compromise on behalf of the Chargor in respect of the Collateral; 8.2.8 power to rank and claim in the insolvency or liquidation of the Companies and to receive dividends and to accede to agreements for the creditors of the Companies; 8.2.9 power to present or defend a petition for the winding up of the Companies; and 8.2.10 power to do all other things incidental to the exercise of the foregoing powers. 8.3 The Receiver shall be the agent of the Chargor and the Chargor alone shall be responsible for his acts and defaults and liable on any contracts made, entered into or adopted by the Receiver. The Collateral Trustees shall not be liable for the Receiver's
acts, omissions, negligence or default, nor be liable on contracts entered into or adopted by the Receiver. 9 INDEMNIFICATION AND EXPENSES 9.1 The Chargor agrees to indemnify, defend and save and hold harmless the Collateral Trustees, each Representative and each Secured Holder and each of their Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "Indemnified Party") from and against, and shall pay on demand, any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) that may be incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or resulting from this Charge (including, without limitation, enforcement of this Charge) or any other Shared Collateral Document except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Indemnified Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct. 9.2 The Chargor will upon demand pay to the Collateral Trustees the amount of any and all reasonable expenses, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of their counsel and of any experts and agents, that the Collateral Trustees may incur in connection with (a) the administration of this Charge (b) the custody, preservation, use or operation of, or the sale of, collection from or other realization upon, any of the Collateral, (c) the exercise or enforcement of any of the rights of the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives or the other Secured Holders hereunder or (d) the failure by the Chargor to perform or observe any of the provisions hereof. Any such amount not paid on demand shall bear interest at a per annum rate of 2% plus the Base Rate. 10 LIMITATION ON DUTY OF THE COLLATERAL AGENT IN RESPECT OF CHARGED SHARES Beyond the exercise of reasonable care in the custody thereof, the Collateral Trustees shall have no duty as to any Collateral in their possession or control. The Collateral Trustees shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and preservation of the Collateral in their possession if the Collateral is accorded treatment substantially equal to that which it accords its own property and shall not be liable or responsible for any loss or damage to any of the Collateral, or for any diminution in the value thereof, by reason of any act or omission of any agent or bailee selected by the Collateral Trustees in good faith, other than any act or omission caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such bailee or any act or omission made in breach of this Charge. Any direction of the Required Representative(s) to the Collateral Trustees to take any action hereunder shall be subject to section 7.05(d) of the Collateral Trust Agreement.
11 REMEDIES AND APPLICATIONS OF PROCEEDS If a Collateral Trust Agreement Default shall have occurred and be continuing: 11.1 Any cash held by or on behalf of the Collateral Trustees and all cash proceeds received by or on behalf of the Collateral Trustees in respect of any sale of, collection from, or other realization upon all or any part of the Collateral may, in the discretion of the Collateral Trustees, be held by the Collateral Trustees as collateral for, and/or then or at any time thereafter applied (after payment of any amounts payable to the Collateral Trustees pursuant to Section 9 of this Charge) in whole or in part by the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the Representatives and the Secured Holders against, all or any part of the Secured Obligations, in accordance with the terms of the Collateral Trust Agreement. 11.2 All payments received by the Chargor in respect of the Collateral shall be received in trust for the benefit of the Collateral Trustees, shall be segregated from other funds of the Chargor and shall be forthwith paid over to the Collateral Trustees to be deposited into the Collateral Account. 11.3 The Collateral Trustees may, without notice to the Chargor except as required by law and at any time or from time to time, charge, set-off and otherwise apply all or any part of the Secured Obligations against any funds held in the Collateral Account or in any other deposit account of the Borrower in accordance with Section 11.1 above. 11.4 If the Collateral Trustees shall determine to exercise their right to sell all or any of the Collateral pursuant to this Section 11, the Chargor agrees that, upon request of the Collateral Trustees and subject to the Remedies Limitations, the Chargor will, at its own expense: 11.4.1 execute and deliver, and cause each issuer of such Collateral contemplated to be sold and the directors and officers thereof to execute and deliver, all such instruments and documents, and do or cause to be done all such other acts and things, as may be necessary or, in the opinion of the Collateral Trustees, advisable to register such Collateral under the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 of the United States of America (as amended from time to time, the "Securities Act"), to cause the registration statement relating thereto to become effective and to remain effective for such period as prospectuses are required by law to be furnished and to make all amendments and supplements thereto and to the related prospectus that, in the opinion of the Collateral Trustees, are necessary or advisable, all in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable thereto;
11.4.2 use its best efforts to qualify the Collateral under the state securities or "Blue Sky" laws of the United States of America and to obtain all necessary governmental approvals for the sale of such Collateral, as requested by the Collateral Trustees; 11.4.3 cause each such issuer of such Collateral to make available to its security holders, as soon as practicable, an earnings statement that will satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act; 11.4.4 provide the Collateral Trustees with such other information and projections as may be necessary or, in the opinion of the Collateral Trustees, advisable to enable the Collateral Trustees to effect the sale of such Collateral; and 11.4.5 do or cause to be done all such other acts and things as may be necessary to make such sale of such Collateral or any part thereof valid and binding and in compliance with applicable law. 11.5 The Collateral Trustees are authorized, in connection with any sale of the Collateral pursuant to this Section 11 to deliver or otherwise disclose to any prospective purchaser of the Collateral 11.5.1 any registration statement or prospectus, and all supplements and amendments thereto, prepared pursuant to Section 11.4.1 above; 11.5.2 any information and projections provided to it pursuant to Section 11.4.4 above; and 11.5.3 any other information in its possession relating to such Collateral. 11.6 The Chargor acknowledges the impossibility of ascertaining the amount of damages that would be suffered by the Secured Holders by reason of the failure by the Chargor to perform any of the covenants contained in Section 11.4 above and, consequently, agrees that, if the Chargor shall fail to perform any of such covenants, it will pay, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to the value of the Collateral on the date the Collateral Trustees shall demand compliance with Section 11.4 above. 12 TERMINATION OF SECURITY INTEREST; RELEASE OF CHARGED SHARES The Collateral Trustees shall release all or any portion of the Collateral solely on terms and subject to the conditions set forth in Article 8 of the Collateral Trust Agreement.
13 NOTICES All notices, communications and distributions hereunder shall be given in accordance with Section 9.03 of the Collateral Trust Agreement. 14 WAIVERS; NON-EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES No failure on the part of the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives or any other Secured Holder to exercise, and no delay in exercising and no course of dealing with respect to, any right under this Charge shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right under the Secured Agreements or this Charge preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The rights in the Secured Agreements and this Charge are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other remedies provided by law. 15 ADDITIONAL SECURED OBLIGATIONS Each of the Chargor, the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the Secured Holders acknowledges and agrees that the Collateral hereunder may secure additional Obligations of the Borrower in respect of the incurrence of new Debt by the Borrower or the refinancing, extension, or renewal of certain Debt of the Borrower, in each case, only as permitted by the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. Upon the execution and delivery to the Collateral Trustees of an acknowledgment by the Persons to whom the Obligations referred to in the immediately preceding sentence are owed, in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Trustees, that such Persons acknowledge the terms and conditions of this Charge and the other Shared Collateral Documents and agree to be bound thereby, such Persons shall become a "Secured Holder" for all purposes under the Shared Collateral Documents and shall be entitled to share ratably in the Collateral for all purposes hereunder. 16 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS; CONTINUING SECURITY INTEREST This Charge shall create a continuing security interest in the Collateral and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until all of the Collateral is released, and this Charge is terminated, in accordance with Section 8.02 of the Collateral Trust Agreement, (b) be binding upon the Chargor, its successors and assigns and (c) inure, together with the rights and remedies of the Collateral Trustees hereunder, to the benefit of the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives on behalf of themselves and on behalf of the Secured Holders and their respective successors, transferees and assigns. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing clause (c), any Bank Party may assign or otherwise transfer all or any portion of its rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, all or any portion of its Revolving Credit Loan Commitment, the Loans owing to it and the Note or Notes, if any, held by it) to any other Person, and such other Person shall thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect thereof granted to such Bank Party in the Shared Collateral Documents or otherwise, in each case as provided in Section 10.06 of the Credit Agreement.
17 CHANGES IN WRITING No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Charge, and no consent to any departure by the Chargor herefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall (a) be in writing and signed by the Collateral Trustees and (b) otherwise comply with Section 9.01 of the Collateral Trust Agreement, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given. 18 PROTECTION OF PURCHASERS No purchaser or other person dealing with the Collateral Trustees or their delegate shall be bound to see or inquire whether the right of the Collateral Trustees to exercise any of their powers has arisen or become exercisable or be concerned with notice to the contrary, or be concerned to see whether the delegation by the Collateral Trustees pursuant to the terms of this Charge shall have lapsed for any reason or been revoked. 19 LAW AND JURISDICTION 19.1 This Charge is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, the law of the Cayman Islands. 19.2 The Chargor irrevocably agrees for the exclusive benefit of the Collateral Trustees, the Representatives and the Secured Holders that the courts of the Cayman Islands shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine any suit, action or proceeding and to settle any dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Charge and for such purposes irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such courts. 20 COUNTERPARTS This Charge may be executed in any number of counterparts and all such counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF this Charge has been executed and delivered as a Deed the day and year first above written. EXECUTED UNDER THE COMMON SEAL OF ) AES INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS II, LTD. ) ...................................... ) Name: ) Title: ) In the presence of: Witness - ---------------------- EXECUTED AS A DEED by ) WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY ) ...................................... ) Name: ) Title: In the presence of: Witness - ---------------------- EXECUTED AS A DEED by ) BRUCE L. BISSON ) ...................................... ) Name: ) Title: In the presence of: Witness - ----------------------
ACKNOWLEDGED by ) Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative ) Agent ) ...................................... ) Name: ) Title: In the presence of: Witness - ---------------------- ACKNOWLEDGED by ) Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, ) National Association, as Exchange ) Note Trustee ) ...................................... ) Name: ) Title: In the presence of: Witness - ---------------------- ACKNOWLEDGED by ) BankBoston, N.A., Nassau Branch, ) as Sul Agent ) ...................................... ) Name: ) Title: In the presence of: Witness - ---------------------- ACKNOWLEDGED by ) Fleet National Bank, ) as Lake Worth LOC Bank ) ...................................... ) Name: ) Title: In the presence of: Witness - ----------------------

EXHIBIT 4.5 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- THE AES CORPORATION as the Company and WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as Trustee --------------------------------- Contingent Value Rights Agreement Dated as of December 13, 2002 --------------------------------- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS(1) ------------------ PAGE ---- ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE Section 1.01. Definitions....................................................1 Section 1.02. Other Definitions..............................................5 Section 1.03. Rules of Construction..........................................5 ARTICLE 2 THE CVRs Section 2.01. Title and Terms................................................5 Section 2.02. Execution and Authentication...................................6 Section 2.03 . Paying Agent; Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust..............7 Section 2.04. No Transfer and Exchange.......................................8 Section 2.05. Registration...................................................8 Section 2.06. Replacement CVRs...............................................9 Section 2.07. Outstanding CVRs...............................................9 Section 2.08. Temporary CVRs................................................10 Section 2.09. Cancellation..................................................10 Section 2.10. CUSIP Numbers.................................................11 ARTICLE 3 COVENANTS Section 3.01. Payment of CVRs...............................................11 Section 3.02. Maintenance of Office or Agency...............................11 ARTICLE 4 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION Section 4.01. When Company May Merge, Etc...................................12 Section 4.02. Successor Substituted.........................................12 - -------------------- 1 Note: The Table of Contents shall not for any purposes be deemed to be a part of the Agreement. i
ARTICLE 5 DEFAULT AND REMEDIES Section 5.01. Events of Default.............................................12 Section 5.02. Remedies......................................................12 Section 5.03. Limitation on Suits...........................................13 Section 5.04. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment..........................13 Section 5.05. Collection Suit by Trustee....................................13 Section 5.06. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim..............................14 Section 5.07. Application of Proceeds.......................................14 Section 5.08. Restoration of Rights and Remedies............................15 Section 5.09. Undertaking for Costs.........................................15 Section 5.10. Rights and Remedies Cumulative................................15 Section 5.11. Delay or Omission Not Waiver..................................15 ARTICLE 6 TRUSTEE Section 6.01. General.......................................................15 Section 6.02. Certain Rights of Trustee.....................................16 Section 6.03. Individual Rights of Trustee..................................17 Section 6.04. Trustee's Disclaimer..........................................17 Section 6.05. Notice of Event of Default....................................17 Section 6.06. Compensation and Indemnity....................................18 Section 6.07. Replacement of Trustee........................................18 Section 6.08. Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc..............................19 Section 6.09. Money Held in Trust...........................................20 ARTICLE 7 AMENDMENTS, SUPPLEMENTS AND WAIVERS Section 7.01. Without Consent of Holders....................................20 Section 7.02. With Consent of Holders.......................................20 Section 7.03. Effect of Amendments..........................................21 Section 7.04. Notation on or Exchange of CVRs...............................21 Section 7.05. Trustee to Sign Amendments, Etc...............................21 ARTICLE 8 MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.01. Notices.......................................................22 Section 8.02. Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent............23 Section 8.03. Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion.................23 Section 8.04. Evidence of Ownership.........................................24 Section 8.05. Rules by Paying Agent.........................................24 ii
Section 8.06. Governing Law.................................................24 Section 8.07. No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.................24 Section 8.08. Successors....................................................24 Section 8.09. Duplicate Originals...........................................24 Section 8.10. Separability..................................................24 Section 8.11. Table of Contents, Headings, Etc..............................24 Section 8.12. Incorporators, Stockholders, Officers and Directors of Company Exempt from Individual Liability.................24 iii
AGREEMENT, dated as of December 13, 2002, between The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation, as the Company, and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, a national banking association, as Trustee. RECITALS OF THE COMPANY WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the creation of an issue of contingent value rights (the "CVRs"), of the tenor and amount set forth herein, and to provide therefor the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Agreement; WHEREAS the Company, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Offering Memorandum and related letter of transmittal each dated as of November 12, 2002, has agreed to issue, to each holder of the Company's 7.375% Remarketable or Redeemable Securities due 2013 ("ROARS") that validly tenders such ROARS to the Company on or prior to the Expiration Date of the Exchange Offer (as defined below) and does not withdraw such ROARS, one CVR for each $1,000 principal amount of ROARS tendered; WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Agreement a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done, and the Company has done all things necessary to make the CVRs, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company as hereinafter provided; NOW, THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH For and in consideration of the premises and the consummation of the transactions referred to above, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders of the CVRs as follows: ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE Section 1.01. Definitions. "Affiliate" of any Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") when used with respect to any Person means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
"Agent" means any Paying Agent, transfer agent or Authenticating Agent. "Agent Member" means a member of, or a participant in, the Depositary. "Agreement" means this Agreement as originally executed and delivered or as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time by one or more amendments to this Agreement entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement. "Amended and Restated Offering Memorandum" means the offering memorandum dated November 12, 2002, as amended or supplemented through the Expiration Date, which describes the terms and conditions of the Exchange Offer. "Board of Directors" means either the Board of Directors of the Company or any committee of such Board duly authorized to act hereunder. "Board Resolution" means one or more resolutions of the Board of Directors or any committee authorized or designated by the Board of Directors to act on its behalf, certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary to have been duly adopted and to be in full force and effect on the date of certification, and delivered to the Trustee. "Certificated CVR" means a Registered CVR in individual form. "CILCORP Sale" means the sale of all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, without par value, of CILCORP Inc., an Illinois corporation, to Ameren Corporation pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of April 28, 2002. "Company" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor replaces it pursuant to Article 4 of this Agreement and thereafter means the successor. "Contingent Payment" means a payment of $20 for each CVR; provided that the Company shall have no obligation to make such payment unless and until the CILCORP Sale is consummated. "Contingent Payment Date" means the date, if any, on which the Company makes the Contingent Payment which shall be within 30 days of the date on which the CILCORP Sale is consummated. "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which the corporate trust business of the Trustee shall, at any particular time, be principally administered, which office is, at the date of this Agreement, located at Sixth Street 2
and Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota, Attention: AES Corporation Administrator. "CVRs" means any of the contingent value rights, as defined in the first paragraph of the recitals hereof, that are authenticated and delivered under this Agreement. "Default Interest Rate" means 10% per annum, compounded semi-annually on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. "Depositary" means the depositary of each Global CVR, which initially will be DTC unless and until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder. "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation. "DTC Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit B. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Exchange Offer" means the Company's offer to exchange its outstanding 8.75% Senior Notes and ROARS for new 10% Senior Secured Notes due 2005 plus a cash amount, and, in the case of the ROARS, a CVR, as described in the Amended and Restated Offering Memorandum. "Expiration Date" means December 12, 2002, the expiration date of the Exchange Offer. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. as in effect as of the date of this Agreement applied on a basis consistent with the principles, methods, procedures and practices employed in the preparation of the Company's audited financial statements, including, without limitation, those set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as is approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession. "Global CVR" means a Registered CVR in global form. "Holder" means the registered holder of any CVR and all beneficial holders thereof. 3
"Officer" means, with respect to the Company, the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president or chief executive officer, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer, or the secretary or any assistant secretary. "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed in the name of the Company (i) by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president or chief executive officer or a vice president and (ii) by the chief financial officer, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer, or the secretary or any assistant secretary, complying with Section 8.03 and delivered to the Trustee. Each such certificate shall include (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement) the statements provided in Section 8.03. "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion signed by legal counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, satisfactory to the Trustee and complying with Section 8.03. Each such opinion shall include the statements provided in Section 8.03, if and to the extent required thereby. "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability company, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof. "Registered CVR" means any CVR registered on the CVR Register (as defined in Section 2.05). "Responsible Officer" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any senior trust officer, any vice president, any trust officer, any assistant trust officer, or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity of which a majority of the capital stock or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person. "Trustee" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor replaces it in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 and thereafter means such successor. "8.75% Senior Notes" means the 8.75% Senior Notes due December 15, 2002 issued by the Company. 4
Section 1.02. Other Definitions. Each of the following terms is defined in the section set forth opposite such term: Term Section ---- ------- Authenticating Agent 2.02 CVR Register 2.05 Event of Default 5.01 Paying Agent 2.03 Section 1.03. Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires: (i) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP; (ii) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular; (iii) "herein," "hereof" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; (iv) all references to Sections or Articles refer to Sections or Articles of this Agreement unless otherwise indicated; and (v) use of masculine, feminine or neuter pronouns should not be deemed a limitation, and the use of any such pronouns should be construed to include, where appropriate, the other pronouns. ARTICLE 2 THE CVRs Section 2.01. Title and Terms. (a) The aggregate number of CVRs which may be authenticated and delivered under this Agreement is limited to one CVR for each $1,000 aggregate principal amount of ROARS validly tendered in the Exchange Offer on or prior to the Expiration Date and not validly withdrawn, except for CVRs authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, other CVRs pursuant to Section 2.06, 2.08 or 7.04. (b) The CVRs shall be known and designated as "Contingent Value Rights" of the Company. (c) Each CVR and the related Trustee's certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. The terms and 5
provisions contained in the form of the CVRs annexed as Exhibit A constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Agreement. (d) The CVRs shall be issuable in denominations of one CVR for each $1,000 aggregate principal amount of ROARS validly tendered in the Exchange Offer on or prior to the Expiration Date and not validly withdrawn. The CVRs shall be numbered, lettered or otherwise distinguished in such manner or in accordance with such plan as the Officers of the Company executing the same may determine, as evidenced by their execution thereof. Each CVR shall be dated the date of its authentication. (e) If and when the Contingent Payment Date occurs, the Company shall make the Contingent Payment to each Holder. (f) In the event that it is finally determined in good faith that the CILCORP Sale will not be consummated and that the condition for payment of the CVRs will not occur, the Company shall give to the Trustee and each Holder notice of such determination. Upon such determination, absent manifest error, the CVRs shall terminate and become null and void and the Holders thereof shall have no further rights with respect thereto. The failure to give such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the validity of such determination. Section 2.02. Execution and Authentication. Two Officers shall execute the CVRs for the Company by facsimile or manual signature in the name and on behalf of the Company. If an Officer whose signature is on a CVR no longer holds that office at the time the CVR is authenticated, the CVR shall nevertheless be valid. The Trustee, at the expense of the Company, may appoint an authenticating agent (the "Authenticating Agent") to authenticate CVRs. The Authenticating Agent may authenticate CVRs whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Agreement to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such Authenticating Agent. A CVR shall not be valid until the Trustee or Authenticating Agent manually signs the certificate of authentication on the CVR. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the CVR has been authenticated under this Agreement. In authenticating the CVRs, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive prior to the first authentication of any CVRs and (subject to Article 6) shall be fully protected in relying upon, unless and until such documents have been superseded or revoked: (a) any Board Resolution by or pursuant to which the form and terms of the CVRs were established; 6
(b) An Officers' Certificate setting forth the form and terms of the CVRs, stating that the form and terms of the CVRs have been established in compliance with this Agreement; and (c) an Opinion of Counsel substantially to the effect that the form and terms of the CVRs have been established in compliance with this Agreement, and the CVRs have been duly authorized and, if executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement and delivered to the holders of the ROARS pursuant to the terms of the Exchange Offer on the date of such opinion, would be entitled to the benefits of the Agreement and would be valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their respective terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, general principles of equity and such other matters as shall be specified therein. Section 2.03. Paying Agent; Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust. The Company shall maintain an office or agency where CVRs may be presented for payment (the "Paying Agent"), which shall be in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York. The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Paying Agent. The Trustee's function as Paying Agent will be performed through its Agent in The City of New York. (b) Not later than 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the Contingent Payment Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent money in immediately available funds sufficient to make the Contingent Payment for each CVR. The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that such Paying Agent shall hold in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of such CVRs or the Trustee, all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of the Contingent Payment for each CVR and shall promptly notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and account for any funds disbursed, and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any payment default, upon written request to a Paying Agent, require such Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money so paid over to the Trustee. If the Company or any Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it will, on or before the Contingent Payment Date or any date upon which any amounts are due to the Holders of the CVRs, segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders thereof a sum of money sufficient to make such payment until such sum of money shall be paid to such Holders or otherwise disposed of as provided in this Agreement, and will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of its action or failure to act as required by this Section. 7
Section 2.04. No Transfer and Exchange. (a) The CVRs many not be transferred or exchanged except as set forth in Section 2.05(b)(iv) in accordance with the applicable rules and procedures of the Depositary. The Trustee shall refuse to register any requested transfer or exchange that does not comply with the preceding sentence. In addition, no transfer or exchange of a beneficial interest in the CVRs will be permitted or recognized by the Trustee, except as otherwise required by law. (b) The Trustee will retain copies of all certificates, opinions and other documents received in connection with the transfer or exchange of a CVR (or a beneficial interest therein), and the Company will have the right to inspect and make copies thereof at any reasonable time upon written notice to the Trustee. (c) By its acceptance of any CVR (or any beneficial interest in such CVR), each Holder thereof and each owner of a beneficial interest therein acknowledges and agrees that such CVR (or a beneficial interest therein) is nontransferable except as set forth in clause (a) above. Section 2.05. Registration. (a) Registered Global Form Only. The CVRs will be issued in registered form only, without coupons, and the Company shall cause the Trustee to maintain a register (the "CVR Register") of the CVRs, for registering the record ownership of the CVRs by the Holders. The CVRs will be issued in global form only except for CVRs to be issued under the circumstances described in clause (b)(iv) of this Section. (b) Global CVRs. (i) Each Global CVR will be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and, so long as DTC is serving as the Depositary thereof, will bear the DTC Legend. (ii) Each Global CVR will be delivered to the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary. Transfers of a Global CVR (but not a beneficial interest therein) will be limited to transfers thereof in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees, except as set forth in paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section. (iii) Agent Members will have no rights under the Agreement with respect to any Global CVR held on their behalf by the Depositary, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and Holder of such Global CVR for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Depositary or its nominee may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any person (including any Agent Member and any Person that holds a beneficial interest in a Global CVR through an Agent Member) to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under the Agreement or the CVRs, and nothing herein will impair, as between the Depositary and 8
its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any security. (iv) If (x) the Depositary (1) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for a Global CVR and a successor depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of the notice or (2) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, (y) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Trustee has received a request from the Depositary, or (z) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Certificated CVRs, the Trustee will promptly exchange each beneficial interest in the Global CVR for one or more Certificated CVRs in authorized denominations registered in the name of the owner of such beneficial interest, as identified to the Trustee by the Depositary, and thereupon the Global CVR will be deemed canceled. Section 2.06. Replacement CVRs. If a defaced or mutilated CVR is surrendered to the Trustee or if a Holder claims that its CVR has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement CVR bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. If required by the Trustee or the Company, an indemnity bond must be furnished that is sufficient in the judgment of both the Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Trustee and any Agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a CVR is replaced. The Company may charge such Holder for its expenses and the expenses of the Trustee (including without limitation attorneys' fees and expenses) in replacing a CVR. In case any such mutilated, defaced, lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken CVR has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may pay such CVR instead of issuing a new CVR in replacement thereof. Every replacement CVR is an additional obligation of the Company and shall be entitled to the benefits of this Agreement. To the extent permitted by law, the foregoing provisions of this Section are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken CVRs. Section 2.07. Outstanding CVRs. CVRs outstanding at any time are all CVRs that have been authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section as not outstanding. If a CVR is replaced pursuant to Section 2.06, it ceases to be outstanding unless and until the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to them that the replaced CVR is held by a holder in due course. 9
If the Paying Agent (other than the Company or an Affiliate of the Company) holds on the Contingent Payment Date, money sufficient to pay CVRs payable on that date, then on and after that date such CVRs cease to be outstanding. A CVR does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or one of its Affiliates holds such CVR, provided, however, that, in determining whether the Holders of the outstanding CVRs have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, CVRs owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only CVRs as to which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has received written notice to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Any CVRs so owned which are pledged by the Company, or by any Affiliate of the Company, as security for loans or other obligations, otherwise than to another such Affiliate of the Company, shall be deemed to be outstanding, if the pledgee is entitled pursuant to the terms of its pledge agreement and is free to exercise in its or his discretion the right to vote such CVRs, uncontrolled by the Company or by any such Affiliate. Section 2.08. Temporary CVRs. Until definitive CVRs are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary CVRs. Temporary CVRs shall be substantially in the form of definitive CVRs but may have insertions, substitutions, omissions and other variations determined to be appropriate by the Officers executing the temporary CVRs, as evidenced by their execution of such temporary CVRs. If temporary CVRs are issued, the Company will cause definitive CVRs to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive CVRs, the temporary CVRs shall be exchangeable for definitive CVRs of such tenor upon surrender of such temporary CVRs at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 3.02, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary CVRs the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like number of CVRs of the same tenor. Until so exchanged, the temporary CVRs shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Agreement as definitive CVRs. Section 2.09. Cancellation. The Company at any time may deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any CVRs previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any CVRs previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold. Any transfer agent and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any CVRs surrendered to them for transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee shall cancel and destroy all CVRs surrendered for transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation and shall deliver a 10
certificate of destruction to the Company. The Company may not issue new CVRs to replace CVRs it has paid in full or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation. Section 2.10. CUSIP Numbers. The Company in issuing the CVRs may use "CUSIP" and "CINS" numbers, and the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers or CINS numbers, as the case may be, in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders and no representation shall be made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the CVRs or as contained in any notice of redemption or exchange. ARTICLE 3 COVENANTS Section 3.01. Payment of CVRs. The Company shall duly and punctually pay the amounts, if any, in the manner provided for in Section 2.03, payable on the CVRs in accordance with the terms of the CVRs and this Agreement. Section 3.02. Maintenance of Office or Agency. So long as any of the CVRs remain outstanding, the Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where CVRs may be surrendered or presented for payment and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the CVRs and this Agreement may be served. The Company hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, as such office or agency of the Company. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 8.01. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the CVRs may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. 11
ARTICLE 4 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION Section 4.01. When Company May Merge, Etc. The Company shall not consolidate with, merge with or into, or sell, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets (as an entirety or substantially as an entirety in one transaction or a series of related transactions) to, any Person (other than a consolidation with or merger with or into a Subsidiary or a sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition to a Subsidiary) or permit any Person to merge with or into the Company unless either (x) the Company shall be the continuing Person or (y) the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which properties and assets of the Company shall be a solvent corporation organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an amendment to this Agreement, executed and delivered to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company on all of the CVRs issued under this Agreement and the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that such consolidation, merger or transfer and such amendment complies with this provision and that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to such transaction have been complied with and that such amendment constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company or such successor enforceable against such entity in accordance with its terms, subject to customary exceptions. Section 4.02. Successor Substituted. Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Agreement with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein. ARTICLE 5 DEFAULT AND REMEDIES Section 5.01. Events of Default. An "Event of Default" shall occur with respect to the CVRs if the Company defaults in making the Contingent Payment when the same becomes due and payable on the Contingent Payment Date. Section 5.02. Remedies. If an Event of Default with respect to the CVRs occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue, in its own name or as trustee of an express trust, any available remedy by proceeding at law or in equity to collect the payments due on the CVRs. In addition, Default Interest will accrue at the 12
Default Interest Rate from the scheduled Contingent Payment Date until the date on which the Company makes the Contingent Payment. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the CVRs or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. Section 5.03. Limitation on Suits. No Holder of any CVR may institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Agreement or the CVRs, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless: (i) such Holder has previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the CVRs; (ii) the Holders of at least 25% of outstanding CVRs shall have made written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy; (iii) such Holder or Holders have offered and, if requested, provided to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against any costs, liabilities or expenses to be incurred in compliance with such request; (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and (v) during such 60-day period, the Holders of a majority in outstanding CVRs have not given the Trustee a direction that is inconsistent with such written request. A Holder may not use this Agreement to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over such other Holder. Section 5.04. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the right of any Holder of a CVR to receive payment of the amount payable in respect of such CVR on or after the Contingent Payment Date expressed in such CVR, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such date, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder. Section 5.05. Collection Suit by Trustee. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount in cash that then shall have become due and payable on all CVRs (with interest from the date due and payable to the date of such payment upon the overdue amount at the 13
Default Interest Rate) and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover all amounts owing the Trustee under Section 6.06. Section 5.06. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.06) and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor on the CVRs), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect and receive any moneys, securities or other property payable or deliverable upon conversion or exchange of the CVRs or upon any such claims and to distribute the same, and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it under Section 6.06. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to empower the Trustee to authorize or consent to, or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder, any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the CVRs or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. Section 5.07. Application of Proceeds. Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article in respect of the CVRs shall be applied in the following order at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee: FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.06; SECOND: to Holders for amounts then due and unpaid for the Contingent Payment and any Default Interest on the CVRs, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the CVRs for the Contingent Payment and any Default Interest, and in the case such moneys shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amount so due and unpaid upon the CVRs, then to the payment of such amounts without preference or priority of any kind, ratably, to the aggregate of such amounts due and payable; and THIRD: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company or any other person lawfully entitled thereto. 14
Section 5.08. Restoration of Rights and Remedies. If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Agreement and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then, and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Company, Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted. Section 5.09. Undertaking for Costs. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Agreement or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, in either case with respect to the CVRs, a court may require any party litigant in such suit (other than the Trustee) to file an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 5.09 does not apply to a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 5.04 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% of the CVRs outstanding. Section 5.10. Rights and Remedies Cumulative. Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken CVRs in Section 2.06, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy. Section 5.11. Delay or Omission Not Waiver. No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article 5 or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be. ARTICLE 6 TRUSTEE Section 6.01. General. The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as set forth herein. The Trustee undertakes to perform only the duties 15
expressly set forth herein and no implied covenant or obligation shall be read into this Agreement against the Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Agreement shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Article 6. Section 6.02. Certain Rights of Trustee. (a) The Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate, Opinion of Counsel, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person or persons. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit; (b) before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate and/or an Opinion of Counsel, which shall conform to Section 8.03. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such certificate or opinion. Subject to Section 6.01 and Section 6.02, whenever in the administration of the trusts of this Agreement the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering or omitting any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Agreement upon the faith thereof; (c) the Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents not regularly in its employ and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent or attorney appointed with due care; (d) any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed); and any Board Resolution may be evidenced to the Trustee by a copy thereof certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company; 16
(e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Agreement at the request, order or direction of any of the Holders, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; (f) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers; (g) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon; and (h) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default hereunder and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, Officers' Certificate, Opinion of Counsel, Board Resolution, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, security, or other paper or document unless requested in writing so to do by the Holders of not less than a majority of the CVRs then outstanding; provided that, if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Agreement, the Trustee may require reasonable indemnity against such expenses or liabilities as a condition to proceeding. Section 6.03. Individual Rights of Trustee. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of the CVRs and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights. Section 6.04. Trustee's Disclaimer. The recitals contained herein and in the CVRs (except the Trustee's certificate of authentication) shall be taken as statements of the Company and not of the Trustee and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. Neither the Trustee nor any of its agents makes any representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Agreement or the CVRs. Section 6.05. Notice of Event of Default. If any Event of Default with respect to the CVRs occurs and is continuing and if such Event of Default is known to the actual knowledge of a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Holder of CVRs notice of such Event of Default within 17
90 days after it occurs to all Holders, unless such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived before the mailing or publication of such notice. Section 6.06. Compensation and Indemnity. The Company shall pay to the Trustee such compensation as shall be agreed upon in writing from time to time for its services. The compensation of the Trustee shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a Trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of pocket expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses of the Trustee's agents, counsel and other persons not regularly in its employ. The Company shall indemnify the Trustee for, and hold it harmless against, any loss or liability or expense incurred by it without gross negligence or bad faith on its part arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Agreement and the CVRs or the issuance of the CVRs or the trusts hereunder and the performance of duties under this Agreement and the CVRs, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against or investigating any claim or liability and of complying with any process served upon it or any of its officers in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties under this Agreement and the CVRs. To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 6.06, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the CVRs on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, in its capacity as Trustee, except money or property held in trust to pay amounts due with respect to particular CVRs. The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate and indemnify the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder and shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Agreement or the rejection or termination of this Agreement under bankruptcy law. Such additional indebtedness shall be a senior claim to that of the CVRs upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular CVRs, and the CVRs are hereby subordinated to such senior claim. Section 6.07. Replacement of Trustee. A resignation or removal of the Trustee as Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee as Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section 6.07. The Trustee may resign as Trustee with respect to the CVRs at any time by so notifying the Company in writing. The Holders of a majority of outstanding CVRs may remove the Trustee as Trustee with respect to the CVRs by so 18
notifying the Trustee in writing and may appoint a successor Trustee with respect thereto with the consent of the Company. The Company may remove the Trustee as Trustee with respect to the CVRs if: (i) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent; (ii) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or (iii) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting. If the Trustee resigns or is removed as Trustee with respect to the CVRs, or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee with respect to the CVRs for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee with respect thereto. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority of outstanding CVRs may appoint a successor Trustee in respect of such CVRs to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If the successor Trustee with respect to the CVRs does not deliver its written acceptance required by the next succeeding paragraph of this Section 6.07 within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority of the outstanding CVRs may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect thereto. A successor Trustee with respect to the CVRs shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately after the delivery of such written acceptance, subject to the lien provided for in Section 6.06, (i) the retiring Trustee shall transfer all property held by it as Trustee in respect of the CVRs to the successor Trustee, (ii) the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee in respect of the CVRs shall become effective and (iii) the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee in respect of the CVRs under this Agreement. A successor Trustee shall mail notice of its succession to each Holder of CVRs. Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the preceding paragraph. The Company shall give notice of any resignation and any removal of the Trustee with respect to the CVRs and each appointment of a successor Trustee in respect of the CVRs to all Holders of CVRs. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee with respect to the CVRs pursuant to this Section 6.07, the Company's obligations under Section 6.06 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee. Section 6.08. Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc. If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of 19
its corporate trust business to, another corporation or national banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation or national banking association without any further act shall be the successor Trustee with the same effect as if the successor Trustee had been named as the Trustee herein. Section 6.09. Money Held in Trust. The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. ARTICLE 7 AMENDMENTS, SUPPLEMENTS AND WAIVERS Section 7.01. Without Consent of Holders. (a) The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Agreement or the CVRs without notice to or the consent of any Holder: (i) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency in this Agreement; provided that such amendments or supplements shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect; (ii) to comply with Article 4; (iii) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder with respect to the CVRs by a successor Trustee; and (iv) to make any change that does not materially and adversely affect the rights of any Holder. Section 7.02. With Consent of Holders. Subject to Section 5.04, without prior notice to any Holders, the Company and the Trustee may amend this Agreement and the CVRs with the written consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the outstanding CVRs by written notice to the Trustee, and the Holders of a majority of the outstanding CVRs by written notice to the Trustee may waive future compliance by the Company with any provision of this Agreement or the CVRs. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7.02, without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding CVR, an amendment or waiver, may not: (a) change the Contingent Payment Date or the Contingent Payment amount; 20
(b) reduce the above stated percentage of outstanding CVRs the consent of whose holders is necessary to modify or amend the Agreement; or (c) reduce the percentage of outstanding CVRs the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Agreement. It shall not be necessary for the consent of any Holder under this Section 7.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 7.02 becomes effective the Company will mail copies of any amendments or waivers to Holders upon request. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amendment or waiver. Section 7.03. Effect of Amendments. Upon the execution of any amendment under this Article, this Agreement shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such amendment shall form a part of this Agreement for all purposes; and every Holder of CVRs theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby. Section 7.04. Notation on or Exchange of CVRs. If an amendment, supplement or waiver changes the terms of any CVR, the Trustee may require the Holder thereof to deliver it to the Trustee. The Trustee may, but is not required to, place an appropriate notation on the CVR about the changed terms and return it to the Holder. Alternatively, if the Company so determines, the Company in exchange for the CVR may issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a new CVR of the same tenor that reflects the changed terms. Section 7.05. Trustee to Sign Amendments, Etc. The Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Article 7 is authorized or permitted by this Agreement, stating that all requisite consents have been obtained or that no consents are required and stating that such amendment constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to customary exceptions. Subject to the preceding sentence, the Trustee shall sign such amendment, supplement or waiver if the same does not adversely affect the rights of the Trustee. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, execute any such amendment, supplement or waiver that affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Agreement or otherwise. 21
ARTICLE 8 MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.01. Notices. Any notice or communication shall be sufficiently given if written and (a) if delivered in person when received, or (b) if mailed by first class mail 5 days after mailing, or (c) as between the Company and the Trustee if sent by facsimile transmission, where transmission is confirmed, in each case addressed as follows: if to the Company: The AES Corporation 1001 North 19th Street Arlington, VA 22209 Telecopy: (703) 528-4510 Attention: General Counsel if to the Trustee: Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association Corporate Trust Services Sixth Street and Marquette Avenue MAC N9303-120 Minneapolis, MN 55479 Telecopy: (612) 667-9825 Attention: AES Corporation Administrator The Company or the Trustee by written notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. Any notice or communication shall be sufficiently given to Holders by mailing to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the CVR Register. Notice mailed shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed. Copies of any such communication or notice to a Holder shall also be mailed to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, if a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided in this Section 8.01, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it. Where this Agreement provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or 22
after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver. In case it shall be impracticable to give notice as herein contemplated, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. Section 8.02. Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent. Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Agreement, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee: (a) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Agreement relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and (b) an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with. Section 8.03. Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion. Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Agreement shall include: (a) a statement that each person signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto; (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statement or opinion contained in such certificate or opinion is based; (c) a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of each such person, such condition or covenant has been complied with; provided, however, that, with respect to matters of fact, an Opinion of Counsel may rely on an Officers' Certificate or certificates of public officials. 23
Section 8.04. Evidence of Ownership. The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may deem and treat the person in whose name any CVR shall be registered upon the CVR Register as the absolute owner of such CVR (whether or not such CVR shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing thereon) for the purpose of receiving any payments related to the CVR and for all other purposes; and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. Section 8.05. Rules by Paying Agent. The Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for its functions. Section 8.06. Governing Law. The laws of the State of New York shall govern this Agreement and the CVRs, without giving effect to such state's conflicts of law principles. Section 8.07. No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements. This Agreement may not be used to interpret another agreement, indenture or loan or debt agreement of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company. Any such agreement or indenture may not be used to interpret this Agreement. Section 8.08. Successors. All agreements of the Company in this Agreement and the CVRs shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Agreement shall bind its successors. Section 8.09. Duplicate Originals. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Agreement. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. Section 8.10. Separability. In case any provision in this Agreement or in the CVRs shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. Section 8.11. Table of Contents, Headings, Etc. The Table of Contents and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms and provisions hereof. Section 8.12. Incorporators, Stockholders, Officers and Directors of Company Exempt from Individual Liability. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement or any amendment hereto or in any CVR, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, as such or against any past, present or future 24
stockholder, officer, director or employee, as such, of the Company or of any successor, either directly or through the Company or any successor, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance of the CVRs by the holders thereof and as part of the consideration for the issue of the CVRs. 25
SIGNATURES IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed, all as of the date first written above. THE AES CORPORATION as the Company Attest: By: /s/ Barry J. Sharp ----------------------------------- Name: Barry J. Sharp Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as the Trustee Attest: By: /s/ Jane Y. Schweiger ---------------------------------- Name: Jane Y. Schweiger Title: Vice President 26
EXHIBIT A [FACE OF GLOBAL CVR] THE AES CORPORATION [CUSIP] [CINS] _______________ THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE THEREWITH. THIS SECURITY IS ALSO SUBJECT TO THE PROHIBITIONS ON TRANSFER SET FORTH IN THE CONTINGENT VALUE RIGHTS AGREEMENT (AS HEREIN DEFINED) AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED OR EXCHANGED EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCE DESCRIBED THEREIN. AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), for value received, promises to pay to Cede & Co ("CEDE"), or its registered assigns, the Contingent Payment (as defined in the Contingent Value Rights Agreement described below) on the Contingent Payment Date (as defined in the Contingent Value Rights Agreement described below). This being a Global Security deposited with The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") acting as depositary, and registered in the name of CEDE, a nominee of DTC, CEDE, as holder of record of this Global Security, shall be entitled to receive the Contingent Payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds. This Contingent Value Right ("CVR") is being issued pursuant to the terms of and subject to the conditions of the Contingent Value Rights Agreement dated as of December 13, 2002 (the "Contingent Value Rights Agreement") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this CVR set forth on the reverse hereof, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this CVR to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers. Date: THE AES CORPORATION By: ------------------------------ Name: Title: By: ------------------------------ Name: Title: A-2
(Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication) This is one of the CVRs described in the Contingent Value Rights Agreement referred to in this CVR. WELLS FARGO BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: ---------------------------------- Authorized Signatory A-3
[REVERSE SIDE OF CVR] THE AES CORPORATION CONTINGENT VALUE RIGHT This CVR is being issued pursuant to the terms of and subject to the conditions of the Contingent Value Rights Agreement dated as of December 13, 2002 (the "Contingent Value Rights Agreement") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee (the "Trustee"). The terms and provisions contained in the Contingent Value Rights Agreement are incorporated by reference herein and made a part hereof. Reference is hereby made to the Contingent Value Rights Agreement for a full statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the CVRs. Terms not defined herein are used as defined in the Contingent Value Rights Agreement. Copies of the Contingent Value Rights Agreement can be obtained by contacting the Trustee. By acceptance of this CVR the Holder consents to all the terms and provisions hereof including the terms and provisions of the Contingent Value Rights Agreement incorporated by reference herein. 1. Contingent Payment. THE AES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which definition shall include any successor thereto in accordance with the Contingent Value Rights Agreement) promises to pay the Contingent Payment to the holders of the CVRs on the Contingent Payment Date if such date occurs. Such payment shall be made exclusively in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts. In the event that it is finally determined in good faith that the CILCORP Sale will not be consummated and that the condition for payment of the CVRs will not occur, the Company shall give to the Trustee and each registered holder notice of such determination. Upon such determination, absent manifest error, the CVRs shall terminate and become null and void and the Holders thereof shall have no further rights with respect thereto. The failure to give such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the validity of such determination. 2. Method of Payment. The Contingent Payment will be made to the Depositary as the registered holder of the CVRs. The Company expects that the Depositary, upon receipt of the Contingent Payment, will credit the accounts of persons who have accounts with the Depositary ("participants") with an amount proportionate to their respective beneficial interests in the total amount of CVRs A-4
as shown on the records of the Depositary. The Company also expects that payments by participants to owners of beneficial interests in CVRs held through such participants will be governed by standing instructions and customary practices. Such payments will be the responsibility of such participants. 2. Paying Agent and Registrar. The Trustee will act as Paying Agent and registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-Registrar without notice. 3. No Transfer or Exchange. The CVRs are in registered form without coupons. A Holder may not transfer or exchange the CVRs except in the limited circumstance set forth in the Contingent Value Rights Agreement. 4. Persons Deemed Owners. The registered holder of the CVR may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes. 5. Amendment, Supplement, Waiver. The Company and the Trustee may, without the consent of the holders of any outstanding CVRs, amend, waive or supplement the Contingent Value Rights Agreement or the CVRs for certain specified purposes, including, among other things, curing ambiguities, defects or inconsistencies, or making any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder in any material respect. Subject to Section 5.04 and Section 7.02 of the Contingent Value Rights Agreement, other amendments and modifications of the Contingent Value Rights Agreement or the CVRs may be made by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the outstanding CVRs. 6. Successor Corporation. When a successor corporation assumes all the obligation of its predecessor under the CVRs and the Contingent Value Rights Agreement and the transaction complies with the terms of Article 4 of the Contingent Value Rights Agreement, the predecessor corporation, subject to certain exceptions, will be released from those obligations. 7. Defaults and Remedies. Events of Default are set forth in the Contingent Value Rights Agreement. Holders of CVRs may not enforce the Contingent Value Rights Agreement or the CVRs except as provided in the Contingent Value Rights Agreement. The Trustee may require indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it before it enforces the Contingent Value Rights Agreement or the CVRs. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority of the then outstanding CVRs may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. 8. Trustee Dealing with Company. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform A-5
services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not Trustee. 9. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee, stockholder or beneficiary, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the CVRs or the Contingent Value Rights Agreement or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the CVRs by accepting a CVR waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the CVRs. 10. Authentication. This CVR shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this CVR. 11. Abbreviations. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of CVRs, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TENANT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act). 12. GOVERNING LAW. THE CONTINGENT VALUE RIGHTS AGREEMENT AND THIS CVR SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The Company will furnish to any Holder of CVRs upon written request and without charge a copy of the Contingent Value Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to: THE AES CORPORATION 1001 North 19th Street, Suite 2000 Arlington, Virginia 22209 Telephone: (703) 522-1315 Telecopy: (703) 528-4510 Attention: General Counsel A-6
EXHIBIT B DTC LEGEND UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL CVR ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF CEDE & CO. OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL CVR ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSFER PROVISIONS OF THE CONTINGENT VALUE RIGHTS AGREEMENT. B-1

EXHIBIT 99.1 AES Drax Holdings Limited News Release December 13, 2002 AES Drax Holdings Limited signs Standstill Agreement with its Senior Creditors On December 12, 2002, AES Drax Holdings entered into the Standstill Agreement with, among other parties, the Bond Trustee under the Eurobonds financed by a syndicate of banks (the Senior Lenders), certain Senior Bondholders representing a majority in sterling equivalent principal amount of such Senior Bonds (the Consenting Bondholders), and the Senior Bond Trustee. The standstill period expires on May 31, 2003, unless extended. The Senior Lenders and the Consenting Bondholders have agreed to waive certain defaults and events of default under the Eurobonds or the Senior Bonds, as applicable, not to accelerate payment of the obligations and not to seek to enforce security. In addition, the parties to the Standstill Agreement have agreed to certain amendments and waivers to the respective financing documents, which, amongst other things, permits AES Drax to have access to at least (pound)30,000,000 of funds currently unavailable under the financing documentation, which funds may be used to provide credit support to electricity counterparties and suppliers and for working capital needs. The consents and waivers provided under the Standstill Agreement will permit AES Drax Holdings to pay interest due to the Senior Lenders and Senior Bondholders on December 31, 2002. The purpose of the Standstill Agreement is to provide AES Drax and its senior creditors with a period of stability during which discussions regarding consensual restructuring of the Drax power station project can take place. Garry Levesley, Chief Executive & Station Manager of AES Drax commented: "Drax is the UK's largest and most efficient coal fired power station and plays an important and strategic role in the UK's power supply. The signing of the Standstill Agreement allows Drax to continue to meet the UK's electricity needs in an environmentally sound manner and contributes to the country's fuel diversity for electricity generation. With the recent problems at British Energy and with the future increased dependence of the UK on imported gas it is important that abated coal plants like Drax are able to compete in a fair marketplace. AES Drax is currently running at high levels of output and with the
further credit now available we expect our robust operational performance to continue." AES Drax Holdings has furnished a Form 6-K including a conformed copy of the Standstill Agreement to the US Securities and Exchange Commission. 2
Forward Looking Statements Certain statements included herein are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believe," "expects," "may," "intends," "will," "should," or "anticipates," or the negative forms of other variations of these terms of comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. Future results covered by the forward-looking statements may not be achieved. Forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we have identified some of these risks, uncertainties and other important factors herein and you should also review "Item 1. Key Information - Risk Factors" in AES Drax Holdings Limited's Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2001, ("2001 Annual Report") which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. You should also consider, among others, the following important factors: o general economic and business conditions in the UK; o changes in governmental regulations affecting the Drax Power Station and the UK electric power industry generally, including the impact of the New Electricity Trading Arrangements ("NETA") that were implemented on March 27, 2001 on the market for electricity in the UK; o power prices and resource availability and pricing; o general industry trends; o changes to the competitive environment; o changes in business strategy, development plans or vendor relationships, in the market for power in the UK and that AES Drax's principal hedging arrangement relating to power sales has been terminated and it will now be operating as a fully merchant plant; o availability, terms and development of capital; o interest rate volatility; 3
o changes in currency exchange rates, inflation rates and conditions in financial markets; and o availability of qualified personnel. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. We do not intend to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, and we do not assume any responsibility to do so. 4

EXHIBIT 99.2 EXECUTION COPY AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT, REIMBURSEMENT AND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT dated as of December 12, 2002 among THE AES CORPORATION, as Borrower, AES OKLAHOMA HOLDINGS, L.L.C., AES HAWAII MANAGEMENT COMPANY, INC., AES SOUTHLAND FUNDING, L.L.C., AES WARRIOR RUN FUNDING, L.L.C., AND AES EDC FUNDING II, L.L.C., as Subsidiary Guarantors, CITICORP USA, INC. as Administrative Agent and as Collateral Agent, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY, INC., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner and as Syndication Agent (Revolving Credit Loan Facility, Drax Letter of Credit Facility and Tranche A Term Loan Facility), UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner and as Syndication Agent (Tranche B Term Loan Facility), THE BANKS LISTED HEREIN, AND THE REVOLVING FRONTING BANKS AND THE DRAX LOC FRONTING BANK LISTED HEREIN
TABLE OF CONTENTS Page ---- ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS Section 1.01 Definitions......................................................2 Section 1.02 Accounting Terms and Determinations.............................34 Section 1.03 Types of Borrowing..............................................35 Section 1.04 Currency Equivalents Generally..................................35 ARTICLE II THE CREDITS Section 2.01 Commitment to Lend..............................................35 Section 2.02 Notice of Borrowing.............................................36 Section 2.03 Revolving Letters of Credit.....................................37 Section 2.04 Evidence of Debt................................................44 Section 2.05 Maturity of Loans...............................................45 Section 2.06 Interest Rates..................................................45 Section 2.07 Method of Electing Interest Rates...............................46 Section 2.08 Fees............................................................47 Section 2.09 Repayment of Term Loan Facility and Drax Letter of Credit Facility...............................................48 Section 2.10 Termination or Reduction of Commitments.........................48 Section 2.11 Prepayment of the Loans.........................................49 Section 2.12 General Provisions as to Payments...............................52 Section 2.13 Funding Losses..................................................53 Section 2.14 Computation of Interest and Fees................................53 Section 2.15 Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account...........................53 Section 2.16 Computations of Outstandings; Determination of Available Amount of Alternative Currency Letters of Credit..............55 Section 2.17 Alternative Currency Letter of Credit Issuances.................56 Section 2.18 Drax Letter of Credit...........................................57 Section 2.19 Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account................................62 Section 2.20 Extension of Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date.............63 ARTICLE III CONDITIONS Section 3.01 Closing.........................................................64 Section 3.02 Extension of Credit.............................................68 i
ARTICLE IV REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES Section 4.01 Corporate Existence and Power...................................69 Section 4.02 Corporate and Governmental Authorization and Filings; No Contravention..............................................69 Section 4.03 Compliance with Laws............................................70 Section 4.04 Binding Effect..................................................70 Section 4.05 Financial Information...........................................71 Section 4.06 Litigation......................................................71 Section 4.07 Compliance with ERISA...........................................71 Section 4.08 Environmental Matters...........................................71 Section 4.09 Taxes...........................................................72 Section 4.10 Material AES Entities...........................................72 Section 4.11 Not an Investment Company.......................................73 Section 4.12 Public Utility Holding Company Act..............................73 Section 4.13 Full Disclosure.................................................73 Section 4.14 Collateral Documents and Collateral.............................73 Section 4.15 Existing Revolving Letters of Credit............................75 Section 4.16 Solvency........................................................75 Section 4.17 Pledged Subsidiaries............................................75 Section 4.18 Qualified Holding Companies Debt................................75 Section 4.19 Banks Parties...................................................75 ARTICLE V COVENANTS Section 5.01 Information.....................................................75 Section 5.02 Payment of Obligations..........................................79 Section 5.03 Maintenance of Property; Insurance..............................79 Section 5.04 Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence................79 Section 5.05 Compliance with Laws............................................80 Section 5.06 Inspection of Property, Books and Records.......................80 Section 5.07 Limitation on Debt..............................................80 Section 5.08 Use of Proceeds.................................................86 Section 5.09 Restricted Payments.............................................86 Section 5.10 Negative Pledge.................................................87 Section 5.11 Consolidations and Mergers......................................88 Section 5.12 Collateral Coverage Ratio.......................................89 Section 5.13 Cash Flow Coverage..............................................89 Section 5.14 Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio................................90 Section 5.15 Transaction with Affiliates.....................................90 Section 5.16 Investments in Other Persons....................................91 Section 5.17 No Prepayment of Debt...........................................94 Section 5.18 Upstreaming of Net Cash Proceeds by Subsidiaries................95 Section 5.19 Sales, Etc., of Assets..........................................95 ii
Section 5.20 Off Balance Sheet Obligations; Derivative Obligations...........98 Section 5.21 Covenant to Give Security.......................................98 Section 5.22 Further Assurances..............................................99 Section 5.23 Cilcorp Purchase...............................................100 ARTICLE VI DEFAULTS Section 6.01 Events of Default..............................................100 Section 6.02 Notice of Default..............................................103 Section 6.03 Cash Collateral................................................103 ARTICLE VII THE AGENT Section 7.01 Appointment and Authorization..................................103 Section 7.02 Agent and Affiliates...........................................104 Section 7.03 Consultation with Experts......................................104 Section 7.04 Liability of Agent and Collateral Agent........................104 Section 7.05 Indemnification................................................105 Section 7.06 Credit Decision................................................105 Section 7.07 Successor Agent or Collateral Agent............................105 Section 7.08 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim..................106 Section 7.09 Agents' Fee....................................................107 ARTICLE VIII CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES Section 8.01 Basis for Determining Interest Rate Inadequate or Unfair.......107 Section 8.02 Illegality.....................................................108 Section 8.03 Increased Cost and Reduced Return..............................108 Section 8.04 Taxes..........................................................109 Section 8.05 Base Rate Loans Substituted for Affected Euro-Dollar Loans.....112 ARTICLE IX SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY Section 9.01 The Subsidiary Guaranty........................................112 Section 9.02 Guaranty Absolute..............................................113 Section 9.03 Discharge Only Upon Payment in Full, Reinstatement in Certain Circumstances.....................................114 Section 9.04 Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account..........................115 Section 9.05 Waiver by the Subsidiary Guarantors............................116 Section 9.06 Subrogation....................................................116 Section 9.07 Stay of Acceleration...........................................116 iii
Section 9.08 Limitation of Liability........................................116 Section 9.09 Release of Subsidiary Guarantors...............................116 Section 9.10 Representations and Warranties.................................117 Section 9.11 Covenants......................................................117 ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS Section 10.01 Notices.......................................................117 Section 10.02 No Waivers....................................................117 Section 10.03 Expenses; Indemnification.....................................118 Section 10.04 Sharing of Set-offs...........................................118 Section 10.05 Amendments and Waivers........................................119 Section 10.06 Successors and Assigns........................................120 Section 10.07 No Margin Stock...............................................123 Section 10.08 Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction.....................123 Section 10.09 Release of Collateral.........................................123 Section 10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness......................123 Section 10.11 Confidentiality...............................................123 Section 10.12 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL..........................................124 Section 10.13 Severability; Modification to Conform to Law..................124 Section 10.14 Judgment Currency.............................................124 iv
Appendix I - Revolving Credit Loan Facility Appendix II - Tranche A Term Loan Facility Appendix III - Tranche B Term Loan Facility Appendix IV - Tranche C Term Loan Facility Appendix V - Existing Letters of Credit Schedule I - Pledged Subsidiaries Schedule II - Assigned Agreements Schedule III - Non-Pledged Subsidiaries Schedule IV - Excluded Subsidiaries Schedule 5.07(b)(ii) - Subsidiary Debt Schedule 5.15 - Existing Agreements with Affiliates Schedule 5.16(xv) - Investments in Subsidiaries for Development Costs Schedule V - Qualified Holding Companies Schedule VI - Existing Debt Exhibit A-1 - Form of Revolving Credit Loan Note Exhibit A-2 - Form of Tranche A Term Loan Note Exhibit A-3 - Form of Tranche B Term Loan Note Exhibit A-4 - Form of Tranche C Term Loan Note Exhibit A-5 - Form of Drax Loan Note Exhibit B-1 - Form of Opinion of the General Counsel, International of the Borrower Exhibit B-2 - Form of Opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, Special Counsel for the Borrower Exhibit B-3 - Form of Opinion of Special Counsel for certain Subsidiaries of the Borrower v
Exhibit B-4 - Form of Opinion of Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell, Delaware counsel for the Borrower Exhibit B-5 - Form of Opinion of Maples and Calder, Cayman Islands counsel for the Borrower Exhibit B-6 - Form of Opinion of Conyers Dill & Pearman, British Virgin Islands counsel for the Borrower Exhibit B-7 - Form of Opinion of Shearman & Sterling, Special Counsel for the Agent Exhibit C-1 - Form of Security Agreement Exhibit C-2 - Form of Collateral Trust Agreement Exhibit C-3 - Form of Tranche C Pledge Agreement Exhibit C-4 - Form of BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement Exhibit D - Form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement vi
AMENDED AND RESTATED, REIMBURSEMENT AND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT, REIMBURSEMENT AND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT dated as of December 12, 2002 among THE AES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), the Subsidiary Guarantors listed herein, the BANKS listed on the signatures pages hereof, the REVOLVING FRONTING BANKS AND THE DRAX LOC FRONTING BANK listed herein, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY, INC., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. ("Bank of America"), as Lead Arranger and Book Runner, and Syndication Agent (for the Revolving Credit Facility, the Drax Letter of Credit Facility and the Tranche A Term Loan Facility), UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A. ("UBOC"), as Lead Arranger and Book Runner, and Syndication Agent (for the Tranche B Term Loan Facility), and CITICORP USA, INC., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the "Agent") and as Collateral Agent for the Bank Parties (in such capacity, the "Collateral Agent"). PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS: 1. The Borrower is party to (i) an $850,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 2000 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified through the date hereof, the "Existing Revolving Credit Facility") among the banks party thereto, the fronting banks listed therein, Bank of America, N.A., as Documentation Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Syndication Agent and Citibank, N.A., as Agent; (ii) a $425,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of September 24, 2001 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified through the date hereof, the "Existing Term Credit Facility") among the banks party thereto and UBOC as the Administrative Agent; (iii) a (pound)52,250,000 Reimbursement Agreement dated as of January 18, 2002 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified through the date hereof, the "Existing Drax LOC Facility") among Bank of America, as Fronting Bank and as Administrative Agent, and the other banks party thereto and (iv) a $350,000,000 Amended and Restated Loan Agreement dated as of November 16, 2000 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified through the date hereof, the "Existing AES EDC SELLS Facility") among AES EDC Funding II, L.L.C. ("AES EDC"), a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Borrower, the banks party thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent. The Existing Revolving Credit Facility, Existing Term Credit Facility, the Existing Drax LOC Facility and the Existing AES EDC SELLS Facility are collectively referred to herein as the "Existing Bank Credit Agreements". 2. The Borrower wishes to amend and restate each of the Existing Bank Credit Agreements by execution of this Agreement to, among other things, extend the maturities of the Existing Bank Credit Agreements, restructure certain other provisions of the Existing Bank Credit Agreements and the Borrower wishes to offer to exchange certain of the existing loans under the Existing AES EDC SELLS Facility for Tranche B Term Loans (as hereinafter defined).
2 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, the parties hereto agree to amend and restate each of the Existing Bank Credit Agreements as follows: The parties hereto agree as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS Section 1.01 Definitions. The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings: "4.50% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures" means the debentures issued by the Borrower pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998 to the Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998. "Actionable Default" means an Event of Default described in clauses (a), (e), (f), (g) and (h) of Section 6.01. "Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral" means the "Additional Collateral" referred to in the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Adjusted Free Cash Flow" means, as of the end of any fiscal year, an amount equal to (i) the Adjusted Parent Operating Cash Flow for such fiscal year plus (ii) the aggregate amount of Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales received by the Borrower and permitted to be retained by the Borrower under the terms of this Agreement during such fiscal year less (iii) the aggregate amount of any Investments (other than Temporary Cash Investments) made in cash by the Borrower during such fiscal year in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, less (iv) the aggregate principal amount of Debt repaid or prepaid with cash by the Borrower during such fiscal year in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, excluding (x) Debt in respect of Revolving Credit Loans and Revolving Letters of Credit (unless the Revolving Credit Commitments are permanently reduced in a corresponding amount in connection with such repayment or prepayment), (y) Debt required to be repaid or prepaid with the Net Cash Proceeds of Asset Sales or an Equity Issuance in accordance with the requirements of Section 2.11(b) and (z) repayments or prepayments of Debt financed by incurring other Debt less (v) the aggregate amount for such fiscal year of Corporate Charges. "Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate" means, for any Interest Period and subject to Section 2.02(a)(iv), a rate per annum equal to the quotient obtained (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next higher 1/100th of 1%) by dividing (i) the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate by (ii) 1.00 minus the Euro-Dollar Reserve Percentage. "Adjusted Parent Operating Cash Flow" means, for any period, (i) Parent Operating Cash Flow for such period less (ii) the sum of the following expenses (determined without duplication), in each case to the extent paid by the Borrower during such period and regardless of whether any such amount was accrued during such period:
3 (A) income tax expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries; and (B) corporate overhead expenses, including, without limitation, development costs. "Administrative Questionnaire" means, with respect to each Bank Party, an administrative questionnaire in the form prepared by the Agent and submitted to the Agent (with a copy to the Borrower) duly completed by such Bank. "Adverse Alternative Currency Letters of Credit" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17. "AES" means The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its successors. "AES Business" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(b)(ii). "AES BVI II" means AES International Holdings II, Ltd., a company organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. "AES EDC" has the meaning set forth in the first preliminary statement hereto. "AES Electric" means Applied Energy Services Electric Limited, an English corporation, and its successors. "AES Hawaii Management" means AES Hawaii Management Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a Subsidiary of the Borrower, and its successors. "AES Management Group" means (i) individuals who are members of the board of directors or officers of the Borrower or the president of any Material AES Entity; (ii) their respective spouses, children, grandchildren, siblings and parents; (iii) trusts established for the sole or principal benefit of Persons described in clauses (i) and (ii) above; (iv) heirs, executors, administrators and personal or legal representatives of Persons described in clauses (i) and (ii) above; and (v) any corporation or other Person that is controlled by, and a majority of the equity interests in which are directly owned by, Persons described in clauses (i) and (ii) above. "AES N.Y. Funding Credit Facility" means the Loan Agreement dated as of November 30, 2001, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, among AES New York Funding, L.L.C., the banks party thereto, and Citibank, as agent. "AES Oklahoma" means AES Oklahoma Holdings, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company and a Subsidiary of the Borrower, and its successors. "AES Southland" means AES Southland Funding, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company and a Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower, and its successors.
4 "AES Warrior Run" means AES Warrior Run Funding, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company and a Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower, and its successors. "Affiliate" means (i) any Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls the Borrower (a "Controlling Person"), or (ii) any Person (other than the Borrower or a Subsidiary) which is controlled by or is under common control with a Controlling Person or (iii) as to any Person (other than the Borrower and its Subsidiaries), any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person. As used herein, the term "control" means possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. "Agent" means Citicorp USA, Inc., in its capacity as administrative agent for the Bank Parties hereunder, and its successors in such capacity. "Alternative Currency" means (i) any lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is freely transferable and convertible into Dollars or (ii) with respect to any Revolving Letter of Credit issued by a Revolving Fronting Bank, any other lawful currency (other than Dollars) that such Revolving Fronting Bank agrees may be used as the designated currency of such Revolving Letter of Credit; provided that such Revolving Fronting Bank is able to provide, and continues to provide, to the Agent the information required pursuant to Section 2.16(b) with respect to such Revolving Letter of Credit. "Alternative Currency Letter of Credit" means any Revolving Letter of Credit having a stated amount denominated in an Alternative Currency. "Amortization Amount" means (i) in respect of each Term Loan Facility, the amount equal to the difference between (x) in the case of the Tranche A Term Loan Facility, $425,000,000, in the case of the Tranche B Term Loan Facility, $213,625,000 and in the case of the Tranche C Term Loan Facility $130,125,000 and (y) the aggregate principal amount of all prepayments made in respect of such Term Loan Facility prior to November 25, 2004 and (ii) in respect of the Drax Letter of Credit Facility, equal to the difference between (x) 50% of the original Drax LOC Available Amount and (y) the aggregate principal amount of all prepayments and cash collateralization payments made in respect of the Drax Letter of Credit Facility prior to November 25, 2004. "Applicable Lending Office" means, with respect to any Bank Party, (i) in the case of its Base Rate Loans, its Domestic Lending Office and (ii) in the case of its Euro-Dollar Loans, its Euro-Dollar Lending Office. "Arranger Parties" means Salomon Smith Barney, Inc., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner, Bank of America, N.A., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner and as Syndication Agent (Revolving Credit Loan Facility, Drax Letter of Credit Facility and Tranche A Term Loan Facility), and Union Bank of California, N.A., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner and Syndication Agent (Tranche B Term Loan Facility).
5 "Asset Sale" means any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition (including any such transaction effected by way of merger or consolidation or by way of an Equity Issuance by a Subsidiary) by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, but excluding any transactions permitted by the provisions of Section 5.19 (other than subsection (iv) thereof); provided that a disposition of such assets not excluded during any fiscal year shall not constitute an Asset Sale unless and until (and only to the extent that) the aggregate Net Cash Proceeds from such disposition, when combined with all other such dispositions previously made during such fiscal year, exceeds $10,000,000. "Assigned Agreements" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.14(d). "Assignee" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(c). "Assignment and Assumption" means an assignment and assumption agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto. "Automatic Acceleration Event" means the occurrence, with respect to the Borrower, of any of the Events of Default listed in clauses (g) and (h) of Section 6.01. "Available Amount" means, for any Revolving Letter of Credit on any date of determination, the maximum aggregate amount (which, in the case of an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit, shall be the Dollar Equivalent on such date of determination of such amount) available to be drawn under such Revolving Letter of Credit at any time on or after such date, the determination of such maximum amount to assume the compliance with and satisfaction of all conditions for drawing enumerated therein. "Banc of America Secured Option" means the Hedge Agreement entered into by the Borrower with Banc of America Securities LLC in connection with the amendment of the Remarketing Agreement to permit the Exchange Note Offering. "Bank" means each lender listed on the signature pages hereof, each Assignee which becomes a Bank pursuant to Section 10.06(c), and their respective successors. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence, the term "Banks" shall include the Tranche A Term Loan Banks, the Tranche B Term Loan Banks, the Tranche C Term Loan Banks and the Drax LOC Banks. "Bank Party" means any Bank, any Revolving Fronting Bank and the Drax LOC Fronting Bank. "Banks' Ratable Share" means (i) in respect of the Creditors' Portion of any Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales, in respect of the first $600,000,000 of Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales received after the Effective Date, a percentage of the Creditors' Portion equal to a fraction (x) the numerator of which is the Total Bank Exposure at such time and (y) the denominator of which is the sum of the Total Bank Exposure at such time plus the aggregate principal amount of Debt incurred in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.07(a)(xi), (ii) in respect of all other Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and the incurrence of any Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(xii) or 5.07(b)(iv) relating to a bridge financing of any Covered Asset Sale, a percentage of the Creditors' Portion equal to, and in
6 connection with the application of Adjusted Free Cash Flow pursuant to Section 2.11(b)(vii), a percentage equal to, a fraction (x) the numerator of which is the Total Bank Exposure at such time and (y) the denominator of which is the sum of the Total Bank Exposure at such time plus the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Secured Exchange Notes issued on or prior to the date hereof and outstanding at such time plus (without duplication) the aggregate principal amount of Debt incurred in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.07(a)(xi), (iii) in connection with incurrence of any Debt (other than the incurrence of any Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(xii) or 5.07(b)(iv) relating to a bridge financing of any Covered Asset Sale or the incurrence of any Debt described by Section 2.11(b)(ii) (to the extent that any amounts remain outstanding under the Tranche A Term Loan Facility or the Revolving Credit Loan Facility or any Revolving Credit Loan Commitments remain outstanding) or Section 2.11(b)(iii) (to the extent that any amounts remain outstanding under the Tranche C Term Loan Facility)) or any Equity Issuance, a percentage equal to a fraction (x) the numerator of which is the Total Bank Exposure at such time and (y) the denominator of which is the sum of the Total Bank Exposure at such time plus the aggregate principal amount of Debt incurred in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.07(a)(xi), (iv) until the Tranche A Term Loan Facility is repaid in full and the Revolving Credit Loan Facility is repaid in full and the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments are permanently reduced to zero, in connection with the Net Cash Proceeds from Asset Sales or the incurrence of Debt described in Section 2.11(b)(ii), a percentage equal to 100% and (v) until the Tranche C Term Loan Facility is repaid in full, in connection with the Net Cash Proceeds from Asset Sales or the incurrence of Debt described in Section 2.11(b)(iii), a percentage equal to 100%. "Bankruptcy Law" means any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, winding up, reorganization, suspension of payments, arrangement, liquidation, relief of debtors, receivership, compromise, amalgamation, assignment for the benefit of creditors or composition or readjustment of debts, or any equivalent or similar proceeding or action. "Base Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the higher of (i) the rate of interest publicly announced by Citicorp USA, Inc. from time to time as its Base Rate for such day and (ii) the sum of 1/2 of 1% plus the Federal Funds Rate for such day. "Base Rate Borrowing" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Borrowing" herein. "Base Rate Loan" means a Loan which bears interest at the Base Rate pursuant to the applicable Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election or the provisions of Section 2.07(a) or Article 8 plus the Base Rate Margin. "Base Rate Margin" means a rate per annum equal to 5.50%. "Benefit Arrangement" means, at any time, an employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA which is not a Plan or a Multiemployer Plan and which is maintained or otherwise contributed to by any member of the ERISA Group. "Borrower" has the meaning specified in the recital of the parties to this Agreement.
7 "Borrowing" means a borrowing hereunder consisting of Revolving Credit Loans made to the Borrower at the same time by the Revolving Credit Loan Banks pursuant to Section 2.01(a). A Borrowing is a "Base Rate Borrowing" if such Revolving Credit Loans are Base Rate Loans or a "Euro-Dollar Borrowing" if such Revolving Credit Loans are Euro-Dollar Loans. "BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement" has the meaning set forth in 3.01(j). "BVI Collateral" means the "Collateral" referred to in the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement. "Capital Commitment" means any contractual commitment or obligation under an equity contribution or other agreement the primary purpose of which is for the Borrower to provide to an AES Business a portion of the capital required to finance construction projects, the acquisition of additional assets or capital improvements being undertaken by such AES Business. "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participants or other equivalents (however designated, whether voting or non-voting) of, or interests in (however designated), the equity of such Person, including, without limitation, all common stock and preferred stock and partnership and joint venture interests of such Person. "Cash Flow Coverage Ratio" means, for any period, the ratio of (i) Adjusted Parent Operating Cash Flow for such period to (ii) Corporate Charges for such period. "CFC" means any entity that is a controlled foreign corporation under Section 957 of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor provision thereto). "Cilcorp" means Cilcorp, Inc., an Illinois corporation. "Cilcorp Purchase Agreement" means the purchase agreement dated as of April 28, 2002 between the Borrower and Ameren Corporation regarding the sale by the Borrower of 100% of its ownership interests in Cilcorp. "Closing Date" means the date on or after the Effective Date on which the Agent shall have received the fees and documents specified in or pursuant to Section 3.01. "Collateral" means the Creditor Group Collateral and the Tranche C Collateral. "Collateral Account" has the meaning as set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Collateral Agent" means Citicorp USA, Inc., in its capacity as collateral agent for the Lender Parties under the Financing Documents and its successors in such capacity. "Collateral Coverage Ratio" means, at any time, the ratio of (i) the Collateral Value at such time to (ii) the sum of (in each case to the extent not collateralized by cash or Temporary Cash Investments) (A) the aggregate principal amount of Loans then outstanding, (B) the aggregate amount of the Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments at such time,
8 (C) the aggregate Available Amount at such time, (D) the Drax LOC Available Amount at such time, (E) the aggregate principal amount of Senior Secured Exchange Notes then outstanding, (F) the "mark to market" value of the Banc of America Secured Option at such time and the "mark to market" value of all outstanding Secured Hedge Agreements at such time in an amount up to $50,000,000, (G) the amounts payable by the Borrower pursuant to any Secured Treasury Management Service Agreement, (H) the aggregate amount payable by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of the Sul Guarantee at such time in an amount up to $50,000,000, (I) the reimbursement obligations pursuant to the Lake Worth Letter of Credit in an amount up to $5,490,449 at such time and (J) the aggregate principal amount of Debt permitted by Sections 5.07(a)(iii) and (x). "Collateral Documents" means the Security Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement, the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement, the Tranche C Pledge Agreement and any other agreement that creates or purports to create a Lien in favor of (x) the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders or (y) the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Tranche C Secured Parties. "Collateral Trust Agreement" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(h). "Collateral Value" means, at any time, the aggregate book value at such time of the percentage of Equity Interests pledged in favor of the Secured Holders (other than the Equity Interests of the Excluded Subsidiaries); provided that the book value of each Subsidiary whose Equity Interests are being pledged shall be determined at such time (without giving effect to any accumulated other comprehensive gain or loss) by the sum of (i) its contributed capital less (ii) its intercompany receivables, plus (iii) its pre-tax retained earnings, plus (iv) its intercompany payables and less (v) dividends paid to the Borrower by such Subsidiary; provided further that for purposes of determining IPALCO's book value, IPALCO's contributed capital shall be calculated on a purchase accounting basis. "Completion of the Exchange Note Offering" means the satisfaction and/or waiver of all the conditions to the exchange by the holders of at least 80% of the aggregate principal face amount of each of (i) the Borrower's 8.75% Senior Notes due 2002 and (ii) the Borrower's 7.375% Remarketable or Redeemable Securities due 2013 (collectively referred to as the "Old Securities") for the Senior Secured Exchange Notes on or prior to the Closing Date pursuant to the Senior Secured Exchange Note Indenture. "Conduit Lender" means any special purpose corporation organized and administered by any Bank for the purpose of making Loans hereunder otherwise required to be made by such Bank and designated by such Bank in a written instrument, subject to the consent of the Agent and the Borrower (which, in each case, shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed); provided that the designation by any Bank of a Conduit Lender shall not relieve the designating Bank of any of its obligations to fund a Loan under the Agreement if, for any reason, its Conduit Lender fails to fund any such Loan, and the designating Bank (and not the Conduit Lender) shall have the sole right and responsibility to deliver all consents and waivers required or requested under this Agreement with respect to its Conduit Lender, and provided further that no Conduit Lender shall (a) be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to Section 8.03, 8.04 or 10.03 than the designating Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the
9 extensions of credit made by such Conduit Lender or (b) be deemed to have any Revolving Credit Commitment hereunder. "Consolidated Subsidiary" means, at any date with respect to any Person, any Subsidiary of such Person or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of such Person in its consolidated financial statements if such statements were prepared as of such date. "Controlling Person" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Affiliate" herein. "Corporate Charges" means, for any period, the sum of the following amounts (determined without duplication), in each case to the extent paid by the Borrower during such period and regardless of whether any such amount was accrued during such period: (A) interest expense of the Borrower for such period: (i) including, without limitation, interest expense attributable to (x) the accretion of original issue discount on Debt issued at less than face value thereof and (y) any interest added to the principal amount of Debt but; (ii) excluding any interest expense to the extent that (x) the Borrower has the option or obligation to pay or satisfy such interest expense by the issuance of Capital Stock of the Borrower or other securities of the Borrower which would not constitute Recourse Debt and (y) the Borrower has not paid or satisfied such interest expense during such period with cash or by the issuance of Recourse Debt; and (B) rental expense of the Borrower for such period; (C) dividends paid on the Borrower's Redeemable Stock during such period; (D) dividends paid on the Existing Trust Preferred Securities; and (E) interest expense of AES New York Funding L.L.C. in respect of the AES N.Y. Funding Credit Facility. "Covered Asset Sale" means any Asset Sale other than (a) any Asset Sale of any of the Capital Stock of any Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Loan Guarantors or any Asset Sale of any assets of a Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Loan Guarantors or any of their Subsidiaries to the extent that the Net Cash Proceeds are applied as set forth in Section 2.11(b)(ii) and (b) any Asset Sale of any Capital Stock of the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor or any Asset Sale of any asset of the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries to the extent that such Net Cash Proceeds are applied as set forth in Section 2.11(b)(iii). For the avoidance of doubt, to the extent that the Net Cash Proceeds referred to in clauses (a) and (b) are not applied as set forth in Sections 2.11(b)(ii) and 2.11(b)(iii), respectively, such Net Cash Proceeds shall be deemed to be for all purposes under this Agreement to be Net Cash Proceeds from a "Covered Asset Sale".
10 "Credit Agreement Documents" has the meaning set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Credit Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.03. "Creditor Group Collateral" means the Security Agreement Collateral, the Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral and the BVI Collateral. "Creditors' Portion" means, in respect of any Net Cash Proceeds from (x) Covered Asset Sales or (y) Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(xii) or Section 5.07(b)(iv), in each case referred to in clause (y) relating to a bridge financing of any Covered Asset Sale (the "Bridge Debt"), the following: (i) with respect to the first $600,000,000 of Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and/or Bridge Debt received after the Effective Date, 50% of such Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and/or Bridge Debt; (ii) with respect to the next $400,000,000 of Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and/or Bridge Debt received after the Effective Date (after giving effect to the Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and/or Bridge Debt described in clause (i)), 80% of such Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and/or Bridge Debt; and (iii) with respect to all other Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and/or Bridge Debt received after the Effective Date (after giving effect to the Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and/or Bridge Debt described in clauses (i) and (ii)), 60% of such Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales and/or Bridge Debt. "Debt" of any Person means at any date, without duplication, (i) all Obligations of such Person for borrowed money; (ii) all Obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments; (iii) all Obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business; (iv) all Obligations of such Person as lessee which are capitalized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; (v) all Obligations (whether contingent or non-contingent) of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts paid under a letter of credit, surety or performance bond or similar instrument; (vi) all Debt secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Debt is otherwise an obligation of such Person; (vii) all Debt of others Guaranteed by such Person and (viii) all Redeemable Stock of such Person valued at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends. For purposes hereof, contingent obligations of the type described in clause (v) of this definition with respect to letters of credit not issued hereunder shall not be treated as "Debt" hereunder to the extent that such obligations are cash collateralized or to the extent that the issuer of any such letter of credit is entitled to draw under a Revolving Letter of Credit issued hereunder or the Drax Letter of Credit which by its terms requires that Revolving L/C Drawings or Drax L/C Drawings, as the case may be, under such letter of credit be applied only to reimburse such issuer for amounts paid by such issuer under such letter of credit. The obligations of the Borrower under any Capital Commitment or under any agreement, in the form of indemnity or contingent equity contribution agreement or
11 otherwise, pursuant to which the Borrower agrees to protect any Person, in whole or in part, from tax liabilities, environmental liabilities, political risks, including currency convertibility and transferability risk and changes in law, or construction cost overruns shall not constitute Debt. "Debt Exchange Equity Issuance" means an Equity Issuance by the Borrower in exchange for any Debt of the Borrower permitted by Section 5.07(a)(ii) ("Equity Exchanged Debt"), provided that (a) in no event shall the Equity Interests issued in respect of such Equity Issuance be Redeemable Stock and (b) such Equity Interests shall, by their terms, not require the payment of any cash dividend or any other cash payment during any calendar year prior to December 31, 2005 that is greater than the interest payable in cash that would have been payable on the Equity Exchanged Debt during such calendar year to any holder thereof. "Default" means any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default or which with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default. "Derivatives Obligations" of any Person means all obligations of such Person in respect of any rate swap transaction, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity swap, commodity option, equity or equity index swap, equity or equity index option, bond option, interest rate option, foreign exchange transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, currency swap transaction, cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option or any other similar transaction (including any option with respect to any of the foregoing transactions) or any combination of the foregoing transactions. For purposes of determining the aggregate amount of Derivative Obligations on any date or the Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio on any date, the Derivative Obligations of the applicable Person in respect of any Hedging Agreement shall be the maximum aggregate amount (after giving effect to any netting agreements to the extent such netting agreements are with the same Person to whom any such Derivative Obligations are owed or with Affiliates of such Person) that the applicable Person would be required to pay if such Hedging Agreement were terminated at such time. "Direct Exposure" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.15(c). "Disclosed Matters" means matters disclosed in any SEC Filings made prior to December 9, 2002 or in written materials sent by or on behalf of the Borrower to all of the Bank Parties prior to December 9, 2002. "Dollar Equivalent" means, on any date of determination with respect to any Alternative Currency Letter of Credit, (i) in calculating the maximum aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Alternative Currency Letter of Credit at any time on or after such date, the amount thereof in Dollars most recently reported to the Agent pursuant to Section 2.16 in calculating the amount of any Revolving L/C Drawing under such Alternative Currency Letter of Credit, the aggregate amount of Dollars paid by the relevant Revolving Fronting Bank to purchase the Alternative Currency paid by such Revolving Fronting Bank in respect of such Revolving L/C Drawing. "Dollars" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17.
12 "Domestic Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized by law to close. "Domestic Lending Office" means, as to each Bank Party, its office located at its address set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its Administrative Questionnaire as its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office as such Bank Party may hereafter designate as its Domestic Lending Office by notice to the Borrower and the Agent. "Drax Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.18(c)(iv). "Drax L/C Drawing" means a drawing effected under the Drax Letter of Credit. "Drax Letter of Credit" means the Existing Drax Letter of Credit issued under the Existing Drax LOC Facility by Bank of America, N.A., as the Drax LOC Fronting Bank and deemed to be issued hereunder pursuant to Section 2.18, as the same may be amended, amended and restated, extended or replaced pursuant to the terms hereof. "Drax Letter of Credit Commission Rate" means a rate per annum equal to 6.50%. "Drax Letter of Credit Facility" means, at any time, the Drax LOC Commitments of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank. "Drax Letter of Credit Initial Termination Date" means January 22, 2004. "Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date" means the Drax Letter of Credit Initial Termination Date; provided, however that upon the satisfaction of the terms and conditions set forth in Section 2.20, the "Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date" shall have the meaning set forth in such Section. "Drax Loan" means a loan made by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank pursuant to Section 2.18(e). "Drax Loan Note" means a promissory note of the Borrower to the order of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-5 hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank resulting from the Drax Loans deemed to have been made by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank. "Drax LOC Available Amount" means, for the Drax Letter of Credit on any date of determination, the maximum aggregate amount available to be drawn under the Drax Letter of Credit at any time on or after such date, the determination of such maximum amount to assume the compliance with and satisfaction of all conditions for drawing enumerated therein. "Drax LOC Bank" means the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, each Assignee pursuant to Section 10.06(c), and their respective successors. "Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.19(a).
13 "Drax LOC Collateral" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.19(b). "Drax LOC Commitment" means, with respect to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, (pound)52,250,000 and the obligation of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank to extend the expiry date of the Drax Letter of Credit Initial Termination Date to the Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date as provided in this Agreement. "Drax LOC Direct Exposure" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.19(c). "Drax LOC Fronting Bank" means Bank of America, N.A., or any Assignee that becomes a Drax LOC Fronting Bank under Section 10.06. "Drax LOC Liabilities" means, at any time and in respect of the Drax Letter of Credit, the sum, without duplication, of (i) the Drax LOC Available Amount plus (ii) the aggregate outstanding amount of the Drax Loans in respect of previous Drax L/C Drawings under the Drax Letter of Credit. "Drax LOC Relevant Contingent Exposure" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.19(c). "Drax LOC Total Exposure" means, at any time, with respect to any Drax LOC Bank, its Drax LOC Total Outstandings. "Drax LOC Total Outstandings" means at any time, as to any Drax LOC Bank, its participation in the Drax LOC Liabilities. "Effective Date" means the date this Agreement becomes effective in accordance with Section 10.10. "Environmental Laws" means any and all federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, judicial decisions, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, plans, injunctions, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements and other governmental restrictions relating to the environment, the effect of the environment on human health or to emissions, discharges or releases of pollutants, contaminants, Hazardous Substances or wastes into the environment, including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, ground water or land, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, Hazardous Substances or wastes or the clean-up or other remediation thereof. "Equity Basket" means, at any time of determination, the aggregate amount of Net Cash Proceeds received by the Borrower after the Effective Date and prior to such time of determination from Equity Issuances that are not required to prepay the Facilities as set forth in Section 2.11, less the aggregate amount of such Net Cash Proceeds that were applied to the refinancing of any Debt prior to such time in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.17(viii), less the aggregate amount of such Net Cash Proceeds that were used prior to such time in connection with any Investment permitted by Section 5.16.
14 "Equity Credit Preferred Securities" means, at any date: (i) Debt of the Borrower (A) that is owed to a Special Purpose Financing Subsidiary of the Borrower; (B) that is issued in connection with the issuance by such Special Purpose Financing Subsidiary of Trust Preferred Securities; (C) that is subordinated in right of payment to other Debt of the Borrower of at least the types and to at least the extent as was, on the date of issuance thereof, the Junior Subordinated Debentures issued by AES in connection with the issuance by AES Trust III of its $3.375 Term Convertible Securities, Series C, on October 7, 1999 (or otherwise satisfactory to the Agent); (D) as to which, at such date, AES has the right to defer the payment of all interest for the period of at least 19 consecutive quarters beginning at such date and (E) that does not mature, in whole or in part, and is not subject to any required repayment or prepayment, any required sinking fund or similar payment or any repayment or prepayment or sinking fund or similar payment at the option of the holder thereof, prior to the fifth anniversary of the Termination Date; and (ii) Guarantees by the Borrower of the obligations of the issuer of any Trust Preferred Securities in respect of such Trust Preferred Securities; and (iii) Mandatorily convertible securities (such as those known as "DECS" (including tax deductible DECS)) consisting of Debt of the Borrower that is subordinated in right of payment to other Debt of the Borrower of at least the types and to at least the extent as was, on the date of issuance thereof, the Junior Subordinated Debentures issued by the Borrower in connection with the issuance by AES Trust III of its $3.375 Term Convertible Securities, Series C, on October 7, 1999, (or otherwise satisfactory to the Agent) and which is mandatorily convertible into, or redeemable with the proceeds of, Capital Stock of the Borrower (other than Redeemable Stock). "Equity Interest" means, with respect to any Person, shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or other acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or other acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including, without limitation, partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are authorized or otherwise existing on any date of determination. "Equity Issuances" means, in respect of any Person, the issuance or sale of Equity Interests of such Person other than any such issuance to directors, officers or employees pursuant to employee benefit plans in the ordinary course of business (including by way of exercise of stock options). "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor statute.
15 "ERISA Group" means the Borrower, its Subsidiaries and all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code. "Euro-Dollar Borrowing" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Borrowing" herein. "Euro-Dollar Business Day" means any Domestic Business Day on which commercial banks are open for international business (including dealings in dollar deposits) in London. "Euro-Dollar Lending Office" means, as to each Bank Party, its office, branch or affiliate located at its address set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its Administrative Questionnaire as its Euro-Dollar Lending Office) or such other office, branch or affiliate of such Bank Party as it may hereafter designate as its Euro-Dollar Lending Office by notice to the Borrower and the Agent. "Euro-Dollar Loan" means a Loan which bears interest at the Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate pursuant to the applicable Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election plus the Euro-Dollar Margin. "Euro-Dollar Margin" means a rate per annum equal to 6.50%. "Euro-Dollar Reserve Percentage" means for any day that percentage (expressed as a decimal) which is in effect on such day, as prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with deposits exceeding five billion dollars in respect of "Eurocurrency liabilities" (or in respect of any other category of liabilities which includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Euro-Dollar Loans is determined or any category of extensions of credit or other assets which includes loans by a non-United States office of any Bank to United States residents). The Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in the Euro-Dollar Reserve Percentage. "Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01. "Excess Drax LOC Collateral" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.19(d). "Excess Revolving L/C Collateral" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.15(d). "Exchanged Debt" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(a)(iv). "Exchange Note Holders" means the holders of the Senior Secured Exchange Notes.
16 "Exchange Note Offering" means the offer by the Borrower to exchange the Old Securities for the Senior Secured Exchange Notes pursuant to the Senior Secured Exchange Note Indenture. "Excluded Power Project" means the Drax Power Supply Business located in the United Kingdom and any Power Supply Business located in Brazil (other than the Power Supply Business known as "Tiete") or Argentina. "Excluded Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary set forth on Schedule IV, as such Schedule IV may be updated pursuant to Section 5.01(l)(2) whose assets consist only of any of the Excluded Power Projects and direct or indirect Investments therein. "Existing Bank Credit Agreements" has the meaning set forth in the first preliminary statement hereto. "Existing Converted Revolving Credit Loans" means, with respect to each Tranche A Term Loan Bank, the "Loans" (as defined in the Existing Revolving Credit Facility) designated to be Tranche A Term Loans hereunder and set forth opposite its name on Appendix II hereto under the caption "Existing Converted Revolving Credit Loans". "Existing Drax Letter of Credit" means the "Letter of Credit" (as defined in the Existing Drax LOC Facility) issued under the Existing Drax LOC Facility listed on Part B of Appendix V under the heading "Existing Drax Letter of Credit". "Existing Drax LOC Facility" has the meaning set forth in the first preliminary statement hereto. "Existing AES EDC SELLS Facility" has the meaning set forth in the first preliminary statement hereto. "Existing Letter of Credit" means a "Letter of Credit" (as defined in the Existing Revolving Credit Facility) issued under the Existing Revolving Credit Facility that is outstanding on the Effective Date and listed on Part A of Appendix V under the heading "Existing Revolving Letters of Credit". "Existing Revolving Credit Facility" has the meaning set forth in the first preliminary statement hereto. "Existing Revolving Credit Loans" means, with respect to each Revolving Credit Loan Bank, the "Loans" (as defined in the Existing Revolving Credit Facility) set forth in Column B opposite its name on Appendix I hereto. "Existing Term Credit Facility" has the meaning set forth in the first preliminary statement hereto. "Existing Tranche B Term Loans" means, with respect to each Tranche B Term Loan Bank, the "Loan" (as defined in the Existing Term Credit Facility) set forth opposite its name on Appendix III hereto under the caption "Existing Tranche B Term Loans".
17 "Existing Tranche C Term Loans" means, with respect to each Tranche C Term Loan Bank, the "Loan" (as defined in the Existing AES EDC SELLS Facility) set forth opposite its name on Part A or Part B (as the case may be) of Appendix IV hereto under the caption "Existing Tranche C Term Loans". "Existing Trust Preferred Securities" means (i) the $3.375 Trust Preferred Securities, Series C issued by AES Trust III on October 7, 1999 and (ii) the $3.00 Trust Convertible Preferred Securities issued by AES Trust VII on May 17, 2000. "Extension of Credit" means (i) a Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.01 or (ii) the issuance of a Revolving Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2.03. "Facilities" means the Revolving Credit Loan Facility, the Tranche A Term Loan Facility, the Tranche B Term Loan Facility, the Tranche C Term Loan Facility and the Drax Letter of Credit Facility. "Federal Funds Rate" means, for any day, the rate per annum (rounded upward, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100th of 1%) equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Domestic Business Day next succeeding such day; provided that (i) if such day is not a Domestic Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Domestic Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Domestic Business Day and (ii) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Domestic Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate quoted to Citicorp USA, Inc. on such day on such transactions as determined by the Agent. "Financing Documents" means this Agreement, the Collateral Documents and the Notes. "Financing Parties" means (i) the Bank Parties hereunder and (ii) Exchange Note Holders. "Foreign Subsidiary" means a Pledged Subsidiary or a Subsidiary of a Pledged Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any State thereof. "Form 10-K" means the Borrower's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. "Form 10-Q" means the Borrower's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. "GAAP" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02.
18 "Group of Loans" means, at any time, a group of Loans consisting of (i) all Loans which are Base Rate Loans at such time or (ii) all Euro-Dollar Loans having the same Interest Period at such time; provided that if a Loan of any particular Bank is converted to or made as a Base Rate Loan pursuant to Article 8, such Loan shall be included in the same Group or Groups of Loans from time to time as it would have been in if it had not been so converted or made. "Guarantee" by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such Person (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to take-or-pay or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (ii) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part); provided that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business or, for the avoidance of doubt, obligations of the Borrower to provide capital to an AES Business under a Capital Commitment. The term "Guarantee" used as a verb has a corresponding meaning. "Guaranteed Obligations" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.01(b). "Hazardous Substances" means any toxic, radioactive, caustic or otherwise hazardous substance, including petroleum, its derivatives, by-products and other hydrocarbons, or any substance having any constituent elements displaying any of the foregoing characteristics. "Hedge Agreement" means any contract, instrument or agreement in respect of Derivative Obligations. "Hedge Bank" means any Bank Party or an Affiliate of a Bank Party in its capacity as a party to a Secured Hedge Agreement. "Indemnitee" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.03(b). "Interest Period" means, with respect to each Euro-Dollar Loan, the period commencing on the date of borrowing specified in the applicable Notice of Borrowing or on the date specified in an applicable Notice of Interest Rate Election and ending one, two, three, six, nine or, if available, twelve months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect in such notice; provided that: (a) any Interest Period which would otherwise end on a day which is not a Euro-Dollar Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Euro-Dollar Business Day unless such Euro-Dollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Euro-Dollar Business Day; (b) any Interest Period which begins on the last Euro-Dollar Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the
19 calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall, subject to clause (c) below, end on the last Euro-Dollar Business Day of a calendar month; and (c) any Interest Period that would otherwise end after the Termination Date shall end on the Termination Date. "Intermediate Holding Companies" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.16(b). "Internal Revenue Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor statute. "Investment" means any investment in any Person, whether by means of share purchase, capital contribution, loan, Guarantee, time deposit or otherwise (but not including any demand deposit). "IPALCO" means Ipalco Enterprises, Inc., an Indiana corporation. "Lake Worth Letter of Credit" has the meaning set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Lender Parties" has the meaning set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement that has the practical effect of creating a security interest, in respect of such asset. For the purposes of this Agreement, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset which it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset. "Loan" means a Revolving Credit Loan, a Tranche A Term Loan, a Tranche B Term Loan, a Tranche C Term Loan or a Drax Loan, each of which may be a Base Rate Loan or a Euro-Dollar Loan and "Loans" means Revolving Credit Loans, Tranche A Term Loans, Tranche B Term Loans, Tranche C Term Loans or Drax Loans, each of which may be Base Rate Loans or Euro-Dollar Loans or any combination of the foregoing. "Loan Party" means each Obligor and AES BVI II. "London Interbank Offered Rate" means, for any Interest Period, the average (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next higher 1/16th of 1%) of the respective rates per annum at which deposits in dollars are offered to each of the Reference Banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two business days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount approximately equal to the principal amount of the Euro-Dollar Loan of such Reference Bank to which such Interest Period is to apply and for a period of time comparable to such Interest Period.
20 "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial condition or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Loan Parties to perform their material obligations under any Financing Document or (c) the rights of and remedies available to any Bank Party under any Financing Document. "Material AES Entity" means (i) any Subsidiary Guarantor and (ii) any other Person in which the Borrower has a direct or indirect equity Investment if such Person's contribution to Parent Operating Cash Flow for the four most recently completed fiscal quarters of the Borrower constitutes 15% or more of Parent Operating Cash Flow for such period. "Material Debt" means, with respect to any Person, Debt (other than the Loans and the Reimbursement Obligations) of such Person arising in one or more related or unrelated transactions, in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000. "Material Hedge Agreement" means, with respect to any Person, a Hedge Agreement entered into by such Person in respect of which the Derivative Obligations of such Person exceed $50,000,000. "Material Plan" means at any time a Plan or Plans having aggregate Unfunded Liabilities in excess of $50,000,000. "Maximum Outstanding Exposure" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.16. "Minimum CP Rating" means (i) A-1 for Standard & Poor's Ratings Services; (ii) P-1 for Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; (iii) F-1 for Fitch IBCA, Inc. and (iv) D-1 for Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co. "Minimum Liquidity Level" means, as of the end of any fiscal year, an amount equal to (i) the aggregate amount of cash and Temporary Cash Investments of the Borrower on such date and (ii) the aggregate amount of the Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments on such date. "Multiemployer Plan" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which any member of the ERISA Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions or has within the preceding five plan years made contributions, including for these purposes any Person which ceased to be a member of the ERISA Group during such five year period. "Net Cash Proceeds": (A) with respect to an Equity Issuance or the incurrence of Debt (a "Covered Transaction"), means the aggregate amount of cash received from time to time (whether as initial consideration or through payment or disposition of deferred consideration) by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries from such Covered Transaction after deducting therefrom (without duplication) (a) brokerage commissions, underwriting fees and discounts, legal fees, finder's fees and other similar fees and commissions, (b) in the case of a Covered Transaction in the form of incurrence of Debt by a Subsidiary, the amount of any Debt of such Subsidiary that, by the terms of the agreement or instrument governing such Debt or applicable law, is required to be repaid or prepaid and is actually so repaid or prepaid with all or
21 a portion of the proceeds of such Covered Transaction and (c) any portion of the proceeds of such Covered Transaction required to prepay or collateralize interest or dividends payable in respect of such Covered Transaction during one six-month period; and (B) with respect to any Asset Sale, means cash payments received (including any cash payments received by way of deferred payment of principal pursuant to a note or installment receivable or otherwise, but only as and when received (including any cash received upon sale or disposition of such note or receivable), excluding any other consideration received in the form of assumption by the acquiring Person of Debt or other obligations relating to the property disposed of in such Asset Sale or received in any other noncash form) therefrom, in each case, net of all legal, title and recording tax expenses, commissions and other customary fees and expenses incurred (including, without limitation, consent and waiver fees and any applicable premiums, earn-out or working interest payments or payments in lieu or in termination thereof), and all federal, state, provincial, foreign and local taxes payable to the relevant tax authority (i) as a direct consequence of such Asset Sale, (ii) as a result of the required repayment of any Debt in any jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction where the property disposed of was located or (iii) as a result of any repatriation to the U.S. of any proceeds of such Asset Sale, and in each case net of a reasonable reserve (which reserve shall be deposited into an escrow account on terms and conditions reasonably acceptable to the Agent) for any indemnification payments (fixed and contingent) attributable to seller's indemnities to the purchaser undertaken by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with such Asset Sale (but excluding any payments, which by the terms of the indemnities will not, under any circumstances, be made prior to the Termination Date) provided that any amounts in such reserve to the extent not paid to the purchaser as an indemnification payment after the expiration of any applicable time period set forth in the agreements in respect of such Asset Sale shall be treated as "Net Cash Proceeds" for all purposes of the Agreement, and net of all payments made on any Debt which must by its terms or by applicable law be repaid out of the proceeds from such Asset Sale, and net of all required distributions and other required payments made to minority interest holders in Subsidiaries or joint ventures as a result of such Asset Sale; provided that for purposes of determining Net Cash Proceeds received by a Subsidiary required to be applied pursuant to Section 2.11, only that portion of such Net Cash Proceeds received by the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents from such Subsidiary in accordance with Section 5.18 shall be included. "Non-Pledged Subsidiaries" means (i) as of the Closing Date, each of the direct Subsidiaries of the Borrower or of AES BVI II listed on Schedule III or (ii) after the Closing Date, in addition to the "Non-Pledged Subsidiaries" set forth on Schedule III, any newly formed or acquired direct (1) Subsidiary of the Borrower whose aggregate assets have a fair market value not in excess of $1,000,000 and, together with the fair market value of the assets of all Non-Pledged Subsidiaries (other than any Subsidiary which is described in clause (2) below), does not exceed $50,000,000 or (2) Subsidiaries of the Borrower for which a grant or perfection of a Lien on such Subsidiary's stock would require approvals and consents from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of, such Subsidiary.
22 "Note" means a Revolving Credit Loan Note, a Tranche A Term Loan Note, a Tranche B Term Loan Note, Tranche C Term Loan Note or the Drax Loan Note. "Notice of Borrowing" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02. "Notice of Interest Rate Election" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.07(a). "Notice of Issuance" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(d). "Obligation" means, with respect to any Person, any payment, performance or other obligation of such Person of any kind, including, without limitation, any liability of such Person on any claim, whether or not the right of any creditor to payment in respect of such claim is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured, and whether or not such claim is discharged, stayed or otherwise affected by any proceeding referred to in Section 6.01(g) or (h). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Obligations of the Borrower and the Subsidiary Guarantors under the Loan Documents include (a) the obligation to pay principal, interest, Revolving Letter of Credit commissions, charges, expenses, fees, attorneys' fees and disbursements, indemnities and other amounts payable by the Borrower and such Subsidiary Guarantor under any Financing Document and (b) the obligation of the Borrower and such Subsidiary Guarantor to reimburse any amount in respect of any of the foregoing that any Bank Party, in its sole discretion, may elect to pay or advance on behalf of the Borrower and such Subsidiary Guarantor. "Obligors" means the Borrower and the Subsidiary Guarantors. "Off Balance Sheet Obligation" means, with respect to any Person, any Obligation of such Person under a synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP, if such Obligations would give rise to a claim against such Person in a proceeding referred to in Section 6.01(h). "Old Securities" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Completion of the Exchange Note Offering" herein. "Other Taxes" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04(b). "Parent" means, with respect to any Bank Party, any Person controlling such Bank Party. "Parent Operating Cash Flow" means, for any period, the sum of the following amounts (determined without duplication), but only to the extent received in cash by the Borrower from a Person during such period: (A) dividends paid to the Borrower by its Subsidiaries during such period; (B) consulting and management fees paid to the Borrower for such period;
23 (C) tax sharing payments made to the Borrower during such period; (D) interest and other distributions paid during such period with respect to cash and other Temporary Cash Investments of the Borrower (other than with respect to amounts on deposit in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account or the Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account); and (E) other cash payments made to the Borrower by its Subsidiaries other than (i) returns of invested capital; (ii) payments of the principal of Debt of any such Subsidiary to the Borrower and (iii) payments in an amount equal to the aggregate amount released from debt service reserve accounts upon the issuance of letters of credit for the account of the Borrower and the benefit of the beneficiaries of such accounts. For purposes of determining Parent Operating Cash Flow: (1) net cash payments received by a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents during any period which could have been (without regard for any cash held by such Qualified Holding Company at the beginning of such period), but were not, paid as a dividend to the Borrower during such period due to tax or other cash management considerations may be included in Parent Operating Cash Flow for such period; provided that any amounts so included will not be included in Parent Operating Cash Flow if and when paid to a Borrower in any subsequent period; and (2) Net Cash Proceeds from Asset Sales, Equity Issuances or the incurrence of Debt shall not be included in Parent Operating Cash Flow for any period. "Participant" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(b). "Payment Restriction" means any provision in any agreement limiting the ability of any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries to declare or pay dividends or other distributions in respect of its Equity Interests or repay or prepay any Debt owed to, make loans or advances to, or otherwise transfer assets to or invest in, the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower (whether through a covenant restricting dividends, loans, asset transfers or investments, a financial covenant or otherwise). "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA. "Permitted Investment Basket" means at any date of determination an amount equal to (A)(i) from the Effective Date until December 31, 2002, $27,500,000, (ii) for the calendar year ending on December 31, 2003, $200,000,000, (iii) for the calendar year ending on December 31, 2004, $50,000,000 and (iv) for the calendar year ending on December 31, 2005, $25,000,000, provided that to the extent the amounts set forth above for each time period are not used in such time period, such amounts to the extent not used shall be carried forward to future periods, plus (B) the aggregate amount of the Equity Basket at such time.
24 "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof. "Plan" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code and either (i) is maintained, or contributed to, by any member of the ERISA Group for employees of any member of the ERISA Group or (ii) has at any time within the preceding five years been maintained, or contributed to, by any Person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group for employees of any Person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group. "Pledged Debt" shall have the meaning specified in the Security Agreement. "Pledged Subsidiary" means a direct Subsidiary of the Borrower or AES BVI II listed on Schedule I hereto, whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders by the Borrower or AES BVI II, as applicable, pursuant to the Security Agreement or the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement. "Power Supply Business" means an electric power or thermal energy generation or cogeneration facility or related facilities, or an electric power transmission, distribution, fuel supply and fuel transportation facilities, or any combination thereof (all subject to relevant security, if any, under related project financing arrangements), together with its or their related power supply, thermal energy and fuel contracts as well as other contractual arrangements with customers, suppliers and contractors. "PUHCA" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.12. "Qualified Holding Company" means any Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower that satisfies, and all of whose direct or indirect holding companies (other than the Borrower) are Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiaries of AES that satisfy, the following conditions: (i) its direct and indirect interest in any AES Business shall be limited to the ownership of Capital Stock or Debt obligations of a Person with a direct or indirect interest in such AES Business; (ii) except as a result of the Financing Documents (and permitted refinancings thereof), no consensual encumbrance or restriction of any kind shall exist on its ability to make payments, distributions, loans, advances or transfers to the Borrower; (iii) it shall not have outstanding any Debt other than Guarantees of Debt under, or Liens constituting Debt under, the Financing Documents (and permitted refinancings thereof) and Debt to other Qualified Holding Companies (other than AES BVI II); (iv) it shall engage in no business or other activity, shall enter into no binding agreements and shall incur no obligations other than (A) the holding of the Capital Stock
25 and Debt obligations permitted under clause (i) above, (B) the holding of cash received from its Subsidiaries and the investment thereof in Temporary Cash Investments, (C) the payment of dividends to the Borrower, (D) ordinary business development activities, (E) the making (but not the entering into binding obligations to make) of Investments in AES Businesses owned by its Subsidiaries and (F) in the case of AES Electric, the making of Investments in Power Supply Business owned by NIGEN Limited and Medway Power Limited as of the date of this Agreement under any agreement by which it is bound as of the date of this Agreement; and (v) is listed on Schedule V hereto (as supplemented from time to time by written notice to the Agent by the Borrower). "Quarterly Payment Date" means each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. "Recourse Debt" means, on any date, the sum of (A) Debt of the Borrower (other than Equity Credit Preferred Securities) plus (B) Derivative Obligations of the Borrower. "Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio" means, for any period, the ratio of: (i) the sum of the Recourse Debt as of the end of such period to; (ii) the Adjusted Parent Operating Cash Flow during such period. "Redeemable Stock" means any class or series of Capital Stock of any Person that by its terms or otherwise is (i) required to be redeemed prior to the first anniversary of the Termination Date, (ii) redeemable at the option of the holder of such class or series of Capital Stock at any time prior to the first anniversary of the Termination Date or (iii) convertible into or exchangeable for (unless solely at the option of such person) Capital Stock referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above or Debt having a scheduled maturity prior to the first anniversary of the Termination Date; provided that any Capital Stock that would not constitute Redeemable Stock but for provisions thereof giving holders thereof the right to require such person to repurchase or redeem such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of an "asset sale" or a "change of control" occurring prior to the first anniversary of the Termination Date shall not constitute Redeemable Stock if such Capital Stock specifically provides that such person will not repurchase or redeem any such Capital Stock pursuant to such provisions unless such repurchase or redemption is permitted under the terms of this Agreement. "Reduction Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.11(d). "Reference Banks" means the respective principal London offices of Citicorp USA, Inc., Bank of America, N.A. and Union Bank of California, N.A. and "Reference Bank" means any one of such Reference Banks. "Refunding Borrowing" means a Borrowing which, after application of the proceeds thereof, results in no net increase in the Total Outstandings of any Revolving Credit Loan Bank.
26 "Register" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(f). "Regulation U" means Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time. "Reimbursement Obligations" means at any date the obligations then outstanding of the Borrower under Section 2.03(f) or Section 2.18(e) to reimburse the Revolving Fronting Banks or the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, as the case may be, for Revolving L/C Drawings under Revolving Letters of Credit or for Drax L/C Drawings under the Drax Letter of Credit. "Related Fund" means with respect to any Bank Party that is a fund that invests in bank loans, any other fund that invests in commercial loans and is managed or advised by the same investment advisor as such Bank party or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor. "Relevant Contingent Exposure" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.15(c). "Remaining Old Securities" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(a)(iii). "Remarketing Agreement" means the Remarketing Agreement dated June 5, 2001 between the Borrower and Banc of America Securities LLC, entered into in connection with the Borrower's $200,000,000 7.375% Remarketable or Redeemable Securities due 2013. "Required Banks" means, at any time, Bank Parties owed or holding at least a majority in interest of the aggregate principal amount (based in the case of any Revolving Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency other than Dollars, on the Dollar Equivalent at such time) of the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding at such time, (b) the aggregate Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities and Drax LOC Liabilities outstanding at such time and (c) the aggregate Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments at such time. "Required Revolving Credit Loan Banks" means at any time the Revolving Credit Loan Banks having at least a majority of the aggregate Total Exposures at such time. "Required Tranche A Term Loan Banks" means at any time the Tranche A Term Loan Banks owed or holding at least a majority in interest of the aggregate principal amount of the Tranche A Term Loans. "Required Tranche C Term Loan Banks" means at any time the Tranche C Term Loan Banks owed or holding at least a majority in interest of the aggregate principal amount of the Tranche C Term Loans. "Responsible Officer" means any duly authorized officer of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. "Revolving Credit Loan" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
27 "Revolving Credit Loan Bank" means each Bank having a Revolving Credit Loan Commitment. "Revolving Credit Loan Commitment" means, at any time, with respect to any Revolving Credit Loan Bank at any time, the amount set forth opposite such Bank's name on Appendix I hereto under the caption "Revolving Credit Loan Commitment" or, if such Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, the amount set forth for such Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 10.06(g) as such Bank's "Revolving Credit Loan Commitment", as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Sections 2.10 or 2.11. "Revolving Credit Loan Facility" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks' Revolving Credit Loan Commitments. "Revolving Credit Loan Note" means a promissory note of the Borrower to the order of any Revolving Credit Loan Bank, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-1 hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from the Revolving Credit Loans made or deemed to have been made by such Lender. "Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors" means AES Oklahoma, AES Hawaii Management, AES Southland and AES Warrior Run. "Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Obligations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.01(a). "Revolving Credit Period" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the Termination Date. "Revolving Fronting Bank" means (i) with respect to each Existing Letter of Credit deemed to have been issued pursuant to the second sentence of Section 2.03(a), each Bank listed as issuer thereof on Appendix V hereto, as the case may be and (ii) with respect to all other Letters of Credit, any Bank or any Affiliate of any Bank (A) a majority of whose common equity is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Bank; (B) that owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the common equity of such Bank or (C) a majority of whose common equity is owned, directly or indirectly, by a Person that owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the common equity of such Bank and any Subsidiary of any Bank a majority of whose common equity is owned directly or indirectly, by such Bank, that shall, in the case of any such Bank, Affiliate or Subsidiary agree to issue letters of credit hereunder with the consent of the Agent (which consent will be deemed to have been given unless the Agent shall have notified the Borrower to the contrary within one day of the Agent's receipt of notice that such Bank, Affiliate or Subsidiary is to be a Revolving Fronting Bank). "Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.15(a). "Revolving L/C Drawing" means a drawing effected under any Revolving Letter of Credit.
28 "Revolving Letter of Credit" means a letter of credit issued by a Revolving Fronting Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(a) and shall also include each Existing Letter of Credit. "Revolving Letter of Credit Commission Rate" means a rate per annum equal to 6.50%. "Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities" means, at any time and in respect of any Revolving Letter of Credit, the sum, without duplication, of (i) the Available Amount of such Revolving Letter of Credit plus (ii) the aggregate unpaid amount of all Reimbursement Obligations in respect of previous Revolving L/C Drawings made under such Revolving Letter of Credit. "Revolving Letter of Credit Termination Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(h)(i). "SEC Filings" means public filings made by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q or Form 10-K, and any filed amendments to any of the foregoing. "Secured Hedge Agreement" means any Hedge Agreement, including, without limitation, the Banc of America Secured Option, permitted under Article V that is entered into by and between the Borrower and any Hedge Bank. "Secured Holders" has the meaning set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Secured Obligations" has the meaning specified in the Collateral Trust Agreement. "Secured Treasury Management Service Agreements" means any agreement between the Borrower and a Bank Party or an Affiliate of a Bank Party to provide treasury management services to the Borrower. "Security Agreement" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(h). "Security Agreement Collateral" means the "Collateral" referred to in the Security Agreement. "Senior Secured Exchange Notes" means the 10% Exchange Notes due December 15, 2005 issued by the Borrower pursuant to the Senior Secured Exchange Note Indenture and any other Debt issued by the Borrower under the Senior Secured Exchange Note Indenture to refinance, replace or refund the Remaining Old Securities. "Senior Secured Exchange Note Indenture" means that certain Indenture between the Borrower and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, Trustee to be dated as of December 13, 2002. "Shady Point Financing Documents" means (1) the Amended and Restated Application for Letter of Credit and Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of September 28, 1994,
29 among AES Shady Point, Bank of Tokyo, Ltd., as Issuing Bank and the banks named therein and Union Bank of California, N.A., as agent for such banks, (2) the Subordinated Debt Agreement, dated as of June 23, 1987, among AES Shady Point, the subordinated lenders named therein and Nichimen America, Inc. as agent for such lenders, (3) the Subordinated Debt Agreement, dated as of December 6, 1991, between AES Shady Point and The AES Corporation as subordinated lender (it being understood that this debt may be refinanced by Additional Subordinated Debt (as defined therein) and secured on a pari passu basis with the Nichimen subordinated debt referred to above) and (4) the other "Project Documents" referred to therein, as each of the above may be amended from time to time, and any successor credit facility providing for the refinancing of the Debt under such documents. "Shared Collateral Documents" means the Security Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement, the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement and any other agreement that creates or purports to create a Lien in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the Lender Parties. "Significant AES Entity" means (i) any Material AES Entity (other than AES Southland), (ii) AES BVI II and (iii) any other Person (other than any Excluded Subsidiary) in which the Borrower has a direct or indirect equity Investment if (A) such Person's contribution to Parent Operating Cash Flow for the four most recently completed fiscal quarters of the Borrower constitutes 10% or more of Parent Operating Cash Flow for such period, or (B) on any date of determination, the Borrower's direct or indirect interest in the total assets of such Person if such Person is a Consolidated Subsidiary or in the net assets of such Person in all other cases is at least equal to 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, on such date of determination. "Significant Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary of the Borrower that would constitute a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Article I of Regulation S-X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, solely as a result of clause (w)(3) of section 1-02 thereof. "Solvent" and "Solvency" mean, with respect to any Person on a particular date, that on such date (a) the fair value of the property of such Person is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, contingent liabilities, of such Person, (b) the present fair salable value of the assets of such Person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (c) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or liabilities beyond such Person's ability to pay such debts and liabilities as they mature and (d) such Person is not engaged in business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in business or a transaction, for which such Person's property would constitute an unreasonably small capital. The amount of contingent liabilities at any time shall be computed as the amount that, in the light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability. "Special Purpose Financing Subsidiary" means a Consolidated Subsidiary that has no direct or indirect interest in a Power Supply Business or other AES Business and was formed solely for the purpose of issuing Equity Credit Preferred Securities.
30 "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person. "Subsidiary Bankruptcy" means a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that: (i) is for relief against any Subsidiary in an involuntary case; (ii) appoints a custodian of any Subsidiary, or for all or substantially all of the property of either such person; (iii) orders the liquidation of any Subsidiary. "Subsidiary Bankruptcy Cross Default" means any Event of Default that exists under Section 6.01(f)(iii) of this Agreement solely as a result of a Subsidiary Bankruptcy Default. For purposes of the Financing Documents, a Subsidiary Bankruptcy Cross Default will be automatically cured and waived if the Subsidiary Bankruptcy Default that gave rise to such Subsidiary Bankruptcy Cross Default is cured or waived. "Subsidiary Bankruptcy Default" means any Subsidiary Bankruptcy of a Significant Subsidiary that constitutes an event or condition that permits, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would permit, the holders of any Material Debt of the Borrower, or any Person acting on behalf of such holders, to accelerate the maturity of such Material Debt of the Borrower. "Subsidiary Guarantors" means AES Oklahoma, AES Hawaii Management, AES Southland, AES Warrior Run and AES EDC. "Subsidiary Guaranty" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.01(b). "Sul Guarantee" means the Guaranty in the Sponsor Agreement dated as of March 7, 2001 between the Borrower and BankBoston, N.A. Nassau Branch, as agent ("BankBoston") for the lenders under the Sul Credit Agreement referred to below by the Borrower to Guarantee the obligations of AES Cayman Guaiba, Ltd., a Cayman Islands corporation (the "Sul Borrower") under the Credit Agreement dated as of March 6, 2001 (the "Sul Credit Agreement"), with BankBoston, Banc of America Securities, LLC, Unibanco - Uniao de Bancos Brasilieros S.A. and Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, New York Branch, and the lenders named therein in an amount of up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000,000. "Supermajority Banks" means, at any time, Bank Parties owed or holding at least a 66 2/3% interest of the aggregate principal amount (based in the case of any Revolving Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency other than Dollars, on the Dollar Equivalent at such time) of the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding at such time, (b) the aggregate Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities and Drax LOC
31 Liabilities outstanding at such time and (c) the aggregate Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments at such time. "Surviving Debt" means Debt of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries outstanding immediately before and after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Financing Documents. "Taxes" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04(a). "Temporary Cash Investment" means any Investment (having a maturity of not greater than 60 days from the date of issuance thereof) in (A)(i) direct obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, or obligations guaranteed by the United States or any agency thereof; (ii) commercial paper rated at least the Minimum CP Rating by any two of Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Fitch IBCA, Inc. and Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co., provided that one of such two Minimum CP Ratings is by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services or Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; (iii) time deposits with, including certificates of deposit issued by, any office located in the United States of any bank or trust company which is organized or licensed under the laws of the United States or any state thereof and has capital, surplus and undivided profits aggregating at least $500,000,000; (iv) medium term notes, auction rate preferred stock, asset backed securities, bonds, notes and letter of credit supported instruments, issued by any entity organized under the laws of the United States, or any state or municipality of the United States and rated in any of the three highest rated categories by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services or Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; (v) repurchase agreements with respect to securities described in clause (i) above entered into with an office of a bank or trust company meeting the criteria specified in clause (iii) above; (vi) Euro-Dollar certificates of deposit issued by any bank or trust company which has capital and unimpaired surplus of not less than $500,000,000 or (vii) with respect to a Subsidiary, any category of investment designated as permissible investments under such Subsidiary's loan documentation; provided that in each case (except clause (vii)) that such Investment matures within fifteen months from the date of acquisition thereof by the Borrower or a Subsidiary and (B) registered investment companies that are "money market funds" within the meaning of Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940. "Term Loans" means the Tranche A Term Loans, the Tranche B Term Loans and the Tranche C Term Loans. "Term Loan Facilities" means the Tranche A Term Loan Facility, the Tranche B Term Loan Facility and the Tranche C Term Loan Facility. "Termination Date" means July 15, 2005; provided, however, that if, prior to July 15, 2005, the 4.50% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures have been refinanced to mature on a date after December 12, 2005, then "Termination Date" shall mean December 12, 2005; provided further that if the Termination Date occurs on a day that is not a Euro-Dollar Business Day, the Termination Date shall occur on the next succeeding Euro-Dollar Business Day unless such Euro-Dollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case the Termination Date shall be the next preceding Euro-Dollar Business Day.
32 "Total Bank Exposure" at any time means the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding at such time plus (ii) the aggregate amount of the Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities at such time plus (iii) the Drax LOC Available Amount at such time plus (iv) the aggregate amount of the Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments. "Total Exposure" means at any time with respect to each Revolving Credit Loan Bank, its Revolving Credit Loan Commitment or, if the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments shall have terminated, its Total Outstandings. "Total Outstandings" means at any time, as to any Revolving Credit Loan Bank, the sum of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Revolving Credit Loan Bank's Loans and its participation in the Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities and all unreimbursed Revolving L/C Drawings. "Tranche A Term Loan" means, with respect to each Tranche A Term Loan Bank, the amount set forth opposite its name on Appendix II hereto under the caption "Existing Converted Revolving Credit Loans" or, if such Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, the amount set forth for such Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 10.06(g). "Tranche A Term Loan Bank" means each Bank having a Tranche A Term Loan. "Tranche A Term Loan Facility" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Tranche A Term Loan Banks' Tranche A Term Loans at such time. "Tranche A Term Loan Note" means a promissory note of the Borrower to the order of any Tranche A Term Loan Bank, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-2 hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from the Tranche A Term Loan deemed to have been made by such Lender. "Tranche B Term Loan" means, with respect to each Tranche B Term Loan Bank, the amount set forth opposite its name on Part A of Appendix III hereto under the caption "Existing Tranche B Term Loans" or Part B of Appendix III hereto under the caption "Tranche B Term Loans" or, if such Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, the amount set forth for such Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 10.06(f). "Tranche B Term Loan Bank" means each Bank having a Tranche B Term Loan. "Tranche B Term Loan Facility" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Tranche B Term Loan Banks' Tranche B Term Loans at such time. "Tranche B Term Loan Note" means a promissory note of the Borrower to the order of any Tranche B Term Loan Bank, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-3 hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from the Tranche B Term Loan deemed to have been made by such Lender.
33 "Tranche C Collateral" has the meaning set forth in the Tranche C Pledge Agreement. "Tranche C Percentage" means, as of any date of determination, a percentage equal to a fraction the numerator of which is an amount equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Tranche C Term Loans on such date and the denominator of which is an amount equal to the sum of the outstanding principal amount of the Tranche C Term Loans plus the outstanding principal balance of the "Loans" (as defined in the AES N.Y. Funding Credit Facility. "Tranche C Pledge Agreement" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(i). "Tranche C Secured Obligations" has the meaning set forth in the Tranche C Pledge Agreement. "Tranche C Secured Parties" has the meaning set forth in the Tranche C Pledge Agreement. "Tranche C Term Loan" means, with respect to each Tranche C Term Loan Bank, the amount set forth opposite its name on Part A of Appendix IV hereto under the caption "Existing Tranche C Term Loans" or, if such Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions, the amount set forth for such Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 10.06(f). "Tranche C Term Loan Bank" means each Bank having a Tranche C Term Loan. "Tranche C Term Loan Facility" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Tranche C Term Loan Banks' Tranche C Term Loans at such time. "Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor" means AES EDC. "Tranche C Term Loan Note" means a promissory note of the Borrower to the order of any Tranche C Term Loan Bank, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-4 hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from the Tranche C Term Loan deemed to have been made by such Lender. "Tranche C Term Loan Obligations" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.01(b). "Trust Preferred Securities" means, at any date: (i) any Existing Trust Preferred Securities, and (ii) any other equity interests in a Special Purpose Financing Subsidiary of AES (such as those known as "TECONS", "MIPS" or "RHINOS"): (I) that are not (A) required to be redeemed or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof prior to the fifth anniversary of the Termination Date or (B) convertible into or exchangeable for
34 (unless solely at the option of AES) equity interests referred to in clause (A) above or Debt having a scheduled maturity, or requiring any repayments or prepayments of principal or any sinking fund or similar payments in respect of principal or providing for any such repayment, prepayment, sinking fund or other payment at the option of the holder thereof prior to the fifth anniversary of the Termination Date and (II) as to which, at such date, AES has the right to defer the payment of all dividends and other distributions in respect thereof for the period of at least 19 consecutive quarters beginning at such date. "Unfunded Liabilities" means, with respect to any Plan at any time, the amount (if any) by which (i) the value of all benefit liabilities under such Plan, determined on a plan termination basis using the assumptions prescribed by the PBGC for purposes of Section 4044 of ERISA, exceeds (ii) the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such liabilities under Title IV of ERISA (excluding any accrued but unpaid contributions), all determined as of the then most recent valuation date for such Plan, but only to the extent that such excess represents a potential liability of a member of the ERISA Group to the PBGC or any other Person under Title IV of ERISA. "United States" means the United States of America, including the States and the District of Columbia, but excluding its territories and possessions. "Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments" means, with respect to any Revolving Credit Loan Bank at any time, (a) such Bank's Revolving Credit Loan Commitment at such time minus (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Credit Loans outstanding at such time plus (ii) such Bank's participation in the Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities and all unreimbursed Revolving L/C Drawings at such time. "Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary" means any Consolidated Subsidiary all of the shares of Capital Stock or other ownership interests of which (except directors' qualifying shares) are at the time directly or indirectly owned by AES. Section 1.02 Accounting Terms and Determinations. Unless otherwise specified herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made, and all financial statements required to be delivered hereunder shall be prepared, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent (except for changes concurred in by the Borrower's independent public accountants) with the most recent audited consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries delivered to the Banks ("GAAP"); provided that, if the Borrower notifies the Agent that the Borrower wishes to amend any covenant in Article 5 to eliminate the effect of any change in generally accepted accounting principles on the operation of such covenant (or if the Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Banks wish to amend Article 5 for such purpose), then the Borrower's compliance with such covenant shall be determined on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles in effect immediately before the relevant change in generally accepted accounting principles became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such covenant is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Required Banks.
35 Section 1.03 Types of Borrowing. The term "Borrowing" denotes (a) the aggregation of Loans made (or deemed to have been made) or to be made to the Borrower by one or more Banks pursuant to Article 2 on the same day, all of which Loans are of the same type (subject to Article 8) and, except in the case of Base Rate Loans, have the same initial Interest Period or (b) if the context so requires, the borrowing of such Loans. Borrowings are classified for purposes hereof by reference to the pricing of Loans comprising such Borrowing (e.g., a "Euro-Dollar Borrowing" is a Borrowing comprised of Euro-Dollar Loans). It is understood and agreed that all Borrowings will be made in Dollars. Section 1.04 Currency Equivalents Generally. For purposes of this Agreement, the equivalent in any Alternative Currency of an amount in Dollars shall be determined at the rate of exchange quoted by the Agent in New York, at 11:00 A.M. (New York time) on the date of determination, to prime banks in New York for the spot purchase in the New York foreign exchange market of such amount of Dollars with such Alternative Currency. ARTICLE II THE CREDITS Section 2.01 Commitment to Lend. (a) Revolving Credit Facility. (i) Each Revolving Credit Loan Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to make loans (each a "Revolving Credit Loan") to the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.01(a) from time to time during the Revolving Credit Period in amounts such that the Total Outstandings of such Revolving Credit Loan Bank at any time shall not exceed the amount of its Revolving Credit Loan Commitment at such time. Each of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks acknowledges and agrees that the Existing Revolving Credit Loans shall continue as Revolving Credit Loans for all purposes under this Agreement and the Financing Documents. Each Borrowing under this subsection (a) shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 or any larger multiple of $1,000,000 (except for Refunding Borrowings and that any such Borrowing may be in the aggregate amount available in accordance with Section 3.02(b)) and shall be made from the several Revolving Credit Loan Banks ratably in proportion to their respective Revolving Credit Loan Commitments. Within the foregoing limits, the Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01(a), repay, or, to the extent permitted by Section 2.11, prepay Revolving Credit Loans and reborrow at any time during the Revolving Credit Period. (b) Tranche A Term Loan Facility. Each Tranche A Term Loan Bank severally agrees on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement that the Existing Converted Revolving Credit Loans set forth on Appendix II for such Tranche A Term Loan Bank shall be Tranche A Term Loans for all purposes under this Agreement and the Financing Documents.
36 (c) Tranche B Term Loan Facility. (i) Each Tranche B Term Loan Bank listed on Part A of Appendix III severally agrees on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement that the Existing Tranche B Term Loans set forth on Part A of Appendix III for such Tranche B Term Loan Bank shall be Tranche B Term Loans for all purposes under this Agreement and the Financing Documents. (ii) The Borrower hereby offers to each Tranche B Term Loan Bank listed on Part B of Appendix III to exchange the Existing Tranche C Term Loans set forth on Part B of Appendix IV for such Tranche B Term Loan Bank for Tranche B Term Loans and each such Tranche B Term Loan Bank agrees on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement to exchange its Existing Tranche C Term Loans for Tranche B Term Loans. (d) Tranche C Term Loan Facility. Each Tranche C Term Loan Bank listed on Part A of Appendix IV severally agrees on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement that such Existing Tranche C Term Loans set forth on Part A of Appendix IV for such Tranche C Term Loan Bank shall be Tranche C Term Loans for all purposes under this Agreement and the Financing Documents. (e) Term Loan Facilities. The Tranche A Term Loans, Tranche B Term Loans and the Tranche C Term Loans are not revolving in nature, and amounts repaid or prepaid in respect thereof may not be reborrowed. Section 2.02 Notice of Borrowing. (a) The Borrower shall give the Agent notice (a "Notice of Borrowing") not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on (x) the date of each Base Rate Borrowing and (y) the third Euro-Dollar Business Day before each Euro-Dollar Borrowing, specifying: (i) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Domestic Business Day in the case of a Base Rate Borrowing or a Euro-Dollar Business Day in the case of a Euro-Dollar Borrowing; (ii) the aggregate amount of such Borrowing; (iii) whether the Loans comprising such Borrowing are to bear interest initially at the Base Rate or the Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate; and (iv) in the case of a Euro-Dollar Borrowing, the duration of the initial Interest Period applicable thereto, subject to the provisions of the definition of "Interest Period." (b) Upon receipt of a Notice of Borrowing, the Agent shall promptly notify each Bank of the contents thereof and of such Bank's ratable share of such Borrowing and such Notice of Borrowing shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower. (c) Not later than 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of each Borrowing, each Bank shall (except as provided in subsection (d) of this Section 2.02) make available its ratable share of such Borrowing, in Federal or other funds immediately available in New York City, to the Agent at its address referred to in Section 10.01. Unless the Agent
37 determines that any applicable condition specified in Article 3 has not been satisfied, the Agent will make the funds so received from the Banks available to the Borrower requesting such Borrowing at the Agent's aforesaid address. (d) If any Bank makes a new Loan hereunder to the Borrower on a day on which the Borrower is to repay all or any part of an outstanding Loan from such Bank, such Bank shall apply the proceeds of its new Loan to make such repayment and only an amount equal to the difference (if any) between the amount being borrowed and the amount being repaid shall be made available by such Bank to the Agent as provided in subsection (c) of this Section 2.02, or remitted by the Borrower to the Agent as provided in Section 2.12, as the case may be. (e) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Bank prior to the date of any Borrowing that such Bank will not make available to the Agent such Bank's share of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Bank has made such share available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsections (c) and (d) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Bank shall not have so made such share available to the Agent, such Bank and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, a rate per annum equal to the higher of the Federal Funds Rate and the interest rate applicable thereto pursuant to Section 2.06 and (ii) in the case of such Bank, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Bank shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Bank's Loan included in such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement. Section 2.03 Revolving Letters of Credit. (a) Issuance of Letters of Credit. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Revolving Fronting Bank referred to in clause (ii) of the definition of "Revolving Fronting Bank" in Section 1.01 agrees to issue letters of credit under this Section 2.03(a) upon the Borrower's request and for the Borrower's account or the account of any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries, from time to time during the Revolving Credit Period; provided, however, that in no event shall (i) the aggregate Available Amount for all Revolving Letters of Credit exceed the Revolving Credit Loan Facility at such time and (ii) a Revolving Letter of Credit be issued with an Available Amount in excess of the Unused Revolving Credit Commitments of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks at such time. In addition, and notwithstanding any reference in any Existing Letter of Credit to the Existing Revolving Credit Facility, on and as of the Effective Date, each Existing Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a Revolving Letter of Credit and to have been issued on the Effective Date (by the Revolving Fronting Bank that issued or was deemed to have issued such Existing Letter of Credit under the Existing Revolving Credit Facility) pursuant to this Section 2.03(a); provided, however, that nothing in this Section 2.03(a) shall extend, modify or otherwise affect the existing expiry date under any such Existing Letter of Credit. (b) Participations in Letters of Credit. Upon the issuance (or deemed issuance) of each Revolving Letter of Credit by a Revolving Fronting Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(a), such Revolving Fronting Bank shall be deemed, without further action by any
38 party hereto, to have sold to each Revolving Credit Loan Bank (other than such Revolving Fronting Bank) and each such Revolving Credit Loan Bank shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto, to have purchased from such Revolving Fronting Bank a participation in such Revolving Letter of Credit and the related Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities in the amount required so that the participations of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks (including such Revolving Fronting Bank's retained participation) therein shall be in proportion to their respective Revolving Credit Loan Commitments. (c) Required Terms. Each Revolving Letter of Credit issued hereunder shall: (i) by its terms expire no later than the earlier of (i) five Domestic Business Days prior to the Termination Date and (2) two years after its date of issuance; (ii) be in a face amount of (x) not less than $300,000 (or the equivalent thereof in an Alternative Currency); provided that up to five Revolving Letters of Credit may be issued with stated amounts less than $300,000 (or the equivalent thereof in an Alternative Currency) and (y) not more than the amount that would, after giving effect to the issuance thereof (and the related purchase and sale of participations therein pursuant to Section 2.03(b)) cause the Total Outstandings of any Revolving Credit Loan Bank to equal its Revolving Credit Loan Commitment; and (iii) be in a form acceptable to the Revolving Fronting Bank. (d) Notice of Issuance. Except in the case of Existing Letters of Credit, the Borrower may request that a Revolving Letter of Credit be issued by giving the Agent and the Revolving Fronting Bank for such Revolving Letter of Credit a notice (a "Notice of Issuance") at least two Domestic Business Days before such Revolving Letter of Credit is to be issued (or such shorter period of time as shall be acceptable to the Agent and the relevant Revolving Fronting Bank), specifying: (i) the date of issuance of such Revolving Letter of Credit; (ii) the expiry date of such Revolving Letter of Credit (which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.03(c)(i)); (iii) the proposed terms of such Revolving Letter of Credit (or the proposed form thereof shall be attached to such Notice of Issuance), including the face amount thereof (which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.03(c)(ii)); (iv) the transaction that is to be supported or financed with such Revolving Letter of Credit, including identification of the Power Supply Business or other AES Business, if any, to which such transaction relates and the name of the proposed account party for such Revolving Letter of Credit (which may be a Borrower and any subsidiary of the Borrower); and (v) the identity of the Revolving Fronting Bank for such Revolving Letter of Credit, which shall comply with the definition of "Revolving Fronting Bank" hereunder.
39 Upon the receipt of a Notice of Issuance, the Agent shall promptly notify each Revolving Credit Loan Bank of the contents thereof and of the amount of such Revolving Credit Loan Bank's participation in such Revolving Letter of Credit and such Notice of Issuance shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower. (e) Revolving L/C Drawings under Revolving Letters of Credit. (i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Revolving Letter of Credit of demand for payment under such Revolving Letter of Credit, the Revolving Fronting Bank shall determine in accordance with the terms of such Revolving Letter of Credit whether such request for payment should be honored. (ii) If the Revolving Fronting Bank determines that a demand for payment by the beneficiary of a Revolving Letter of Credit should be honored, the Revolving Fronting Bank shall make available to the beneficiary in accordance with the terms of such Revolving Letter of Credit the amount of the Revolving L/C Drawing under such Revolving Letter of Credit. The Revolving Fronting Bank shall thereupon promptly notify the Borrower, the Agent and each Revolving Credit Loan Bank of the amount of such Revolving L/C Drawing paid by it and the amount of each Revolving Credit Loan Bank's participation therein (which, in the case of any Revolving L/C Drawing under an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit shall be the Dollar Equivalent thereof). (f) Reimbursement and Other Payments by the Borrower. (i) If any amount is drawn under any Revolving Letter of Credit issued at the request of or for the account of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower, the Borrower irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to reimburse the applicable Revolving Fronting Bank in Dollars for all amounts paid by such Revolving Fronting Bank upon such Revolving L/C Drawing (which, in the case of any Revolving L/C Drawing under an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit shall be the Dollar Equivalent thereof), together with any and all reasonable charges and expenses which any Revolving Credit Loan Bank or Revolving Fronting Bank may pay or incur relative to such Revolving L/C Drawing and all such amounts due from the Borrower shall bear interest, payable on the date upon which such amounts shall be due and payable, on the amount drawn for each day from and including the date such amount is drawn to but excluding the date such reimbursement payment is due and payable at a rate per annum equal to the rate applicable to Base Rate Loans for such day. If a Revolving Fronting Bank makes any payment under a Revolving Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse such Revolving Fronting Bank by paying such amount to the Agent not later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the day that such payment is made, if the Borrower receives notice of such payment before 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such day, or if such notice has not been received by the Borrower before such time on such day, then not later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on (i) the Domestic Business Day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is received before 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day of receipt, or (ii) the next Domestic Business Day, if such notice is not received before such time on the day of receipt; provided that if such payment is at least $1,000,000, the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth
40 herein, request in accordance with Section 2.02, that such payment be made with the proceeds of a Base Rate Borrowing (which shall consist of Revolving Credit Loans) in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting Base Rate Borrowing (which shall consist of Revolving Credit Loans). Any overdue reimbursement payment, or overdue interest thereon, shall bear interest, payable on demand, for each day until paid at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the rate applicable to Base Rate Loans for such day plus 2%. (ii) Each payment to be made by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.03(f) shall be made, in Federal or other funds immediately available, to the applicable Revolving Fronting Bank at its address referred to in Section 10.01. (iii) The obligations of each Borrower to reimburse the Revolving Fronting Banks under this Section 2.03(f) shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, under all circumstances whatsoever, including without limitation the following circumstances: (A) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Financing Document; (B) any amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any Financing Document (except, in the case of an effective amendment to, waiver of or consent to a departure from any provision of this Agreement, to the extent specified herein); (C) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right which the Borrower may have at any time against the beneficiary of any Revolving Letter of Credit (or any Person or entity for whom such beneficiary may be acting), the Agent, any Revolving Fronting Bank or any Revolving Credit Loan Bank or any other Person or entity, whether in connection with this Agreement, any other Financing Document or any unrelated transaction; (D) any statement or any other document presented under any Revolving Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect whatsoever; (E) payment by a Revolving Fronting Bank under any Revolving Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or document which does not comply with the terms of such Revolving Letter of Credit; or (F) to the extent permitted under applicable law, any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing. (g) Payments by Revolving Credit Loan Banks with Respect to Revolving Letters of Credit.
41 (i) Each Revolving Credit Loan Bank shall make available an amount equal to its ratable share of any Revolving L/C Drawing under a Revolving Letter of Credit, in Federal or other funds immediately available in New York City, to the applicable Revolving Fronting Bank by 3:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date on which the Borrower is required to reimburse such Revolving Fronting Bank with respect to such Revolving L/C Drawing pursuant to Section 2.03(f)(i), together with interest on such amount for the period from and including the date of such Revolving L/C Drawing to but excluding the date upon which such amount is to be made available at the Federal Funds Rate on the date of such Revolving L/C Drawing, at such Revolving Fronting Bank's address referred to in Section 10.01; provided that each Revolving Credit Loan Bank's obligation shall be reduced by its pro rata share of any reimbursement theretofore paid by the Borrower in respect of such Revolving L/C Drawing pursuant to Section 2.03(f)(i). The applicable Revolving Fronting Bank shall notify each Revolving Credit Loan Bank of the amount of such Revolving Credit Loan Bank's obligation (which, in the case of any payment under an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit, shall be the Dollar Equivalent thereof) in respect of any Revolving L/C Drawing under a Revolving Letter of Credit not later than 1:30 P.M. (New York City time) on the day such payment by such Revolving Credit Loan Bank is due. Each Revolving Credit Loan Bank shall be subrogated to the rights of the applicable Revolving Fronting Bank against the Borrower to the extent such payment due from such Revolving Credit Loan Bank to such Revolving Fronting Bank is paid, plus interest thereon, from and including the day such amount is due from such Revolving Credit Loan Bank to such Revolving Fronting Bank to but excluding the day the Borrower makes payment to such Revolving Fronting Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(f)(i), whether before or after judgment, at a rate per annum equal to the sum of 2% plus the rate applicable to Base Rate Loans for such day. In the event that, on the date of any Revolving L/C Drawing, (x) Total Outstandings exceeds the Maximum Outstanding Exposure, (y) the applicable Revolving Fronting Bank is not reimbursed by the Borrower on such date for the entire amount of such Revolving L/C Drawing, and (z) the Revolving Credit Loan Banks, pursuant to the last sentence of subsection (iv) below, are not obligated to reimburse such Revolving Fronting Bank for the entire amount of such Revolving L/C Drawing, the Agent shall, solely for purposes of determining the portion of such Revolving L/C Drawing to be reimbursed by each Revolving Credit Loan Bank, (A) allocate the respective Revolving Credit Loan Commitments of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks to the Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities of each Revolving Letter of Credit on such date on a pro rata basis (based upon (1) the proportion of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments to the aggregate amount of the Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities of all outstanding Revolving Letters of Credit and (2) each Revolving Credit Loan Bank's pro rata share of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments), (B) based on such allocation, determine the reimbursement obligation of each Revolving Credit Loan Bank with respect to such Revolving L/C Drawing and (C) promptly notify each Revolving Credit Loan Bank of the amount of its reimbursement obligation with respect to such Revolving L/C Drawing. (ii) If any Revolving Credit Loan Bank fails to pay any amount required pursuant to subsection (i) of this Section 2.03(g) on the date on which such payment is due, interest, payable on demand, shall accrue on such Revolving Credit Loan Bank's obligation to make such payment, for each day from and including the date such payment
42 becomes due to but excluding the date such Revolving Credit Loan Bank makes such payment at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. Any payment made by any Revolving Credit Loan Bank after 3:00 P.M. (New York City time) on any Domestic Business Day shall be deemed for purposes of the preceding sentence to have been made on the next succeeding Domestic Business Day. (iii) If the Borrower shall reimburse a Revolving Fronting Bank for any Revolving L/C Drawing under a Revolving Letter of Credit after the Revolving Credit Loan Banks shall have made funds available to such Revolving Fronting Bank with respect to such Revolving L/C Drawing in accordance with subsection (i) of this Section 2.03(g), such Revolving Fronting Bank shall promptly upon receipt of such reimbursement distribute to each Revolving Credit Loan Bank its pro rata share thereof, including interest, to the extent received by such Revolving Fronting Bank. (iv) The several obligations of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks to the Revolving Fronting Banks hereunder shall be absolute, irrevocable and unconditional under any and all circumstances whatsoever and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including, without limitation, (1) any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which any such Revolving Credit Loan Bank or any other Person may have against the Agent, any Revolving Fronting Bank or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (2) the occurrence or continuance of a Default or an Event of Default or the termination of the Revolving Credit Loan or any Revolving Letter of Credit; (3) any adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of any Obligor or any other Person; (4) any breach of any Financing Document by any party thereto; (5) the fact that any condition precedent to the issuance of, or the making of any payment under, any Revolving Letter of Credit was not in fact met; (6) any violation or asserted violation of law by any Revolving Credit Loan Bank or any affiliate thereof; or (7) to the extent permitted under applicable law, any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing. Each payment by each Revolving Credit Loan Bank to a Revolving Fronting Bank for its own account shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. If a Revolving Fronting Bank is required at any time (whether before or after the Termination Date) to return to the Borrower or to a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official any portion of the payments made by the Borrower to such Revolving Fronting Bank in payment of any Reimbursement Obligation or interest thereon upon the insolvency of the Borrower, or the commencement of any case or proceeding under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law with respect to the Borrower, each Revolving Credit Loan Bank shall, on demand of such Revolving Fronting Bank, forthwith return to such Revolving Fronting Bank any amounts transferred to such Revolving Credit Loan Bank by such Revolving Fronting Bank in respect thereof pursuant to this subsection plus such Revolving Credit Loan Bank's pro rata share of any interest on such payments required to be paid to the Person recovering such payments plus interest on the amount so demanded from the day such demand is made, if such demand is made by 2:00 P.M. (New York City time), or from the next following Domestic Business Day, if such demand is made after 2:00 P.M. (New York City time), to but not including the day such amounts are returned by such Revolving Credit Loan Bank to such Revolving Fronting Bank at a rate per annum for each day equal to (A) the Federal Funds Rate for the day of such demand
43 and (B) the Base Rate plus 1% for each day thereafter. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision contained herein, in no event shall any Revolving Credit Loan Bank be obligated to make any payment to a Revolving Fronting Bank to the extent that such payment would cause such Bank's pro rata share of the Total Outstandings hereunder to exceed such Bank's Revolving Credit Loan Commitment; provided that the foregoing shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower (which is absolute, unconditional and irrevocable) to reimburse each Revolving Fronting Bank for the entire amount of each payment made by such Revolving Fronting Bank under a Revolving Letter of Credit, including any amount thereof that is not paid by any Revolving Credit Loan Bank to such Revolving Fronting Bank (pursuant to this sentence or otherwise). (h) Revolving Letter of Credit Commission; Issuance Fee. (i) Revolving Letter of Credit Commission. The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent a letter of credit commission with respect to each Revolving Letter of Credit issued at its request or for its account, computed for each day from and including the date of issuance of such Revolving Letter of Credit to but excluding the last day a Revolving L/C Drawing is available under such Revolving Letter of Credit (the "Revolving Letter of Credit Termination Date"), at the Revolving Letter of Credit Commission Rate on the aggregate amount available for drawing under such Revolving Letter of Credit from time to time (whether or not any conditions to drawing can then be met), such fee to be for the account of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks ratably in proportion to their Total Exposures. Such fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last Domestic Business Day of each January, April, July and October and upon the Termination Date. (ii) Issuance Fee. The Borrower shall pay to each Revolving Fronting Bank for its own account such fees with respect to each Revolving Letter of Credit issued by such Revolving Fronting Bank for the account of the Borrower as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and such Revolving Fronting Bank. (iii) Limited Liability of the Revolving Fronting Bank. As between a Revolving Fronting Bank, on the one hand, and the Borrower, on the other, the Borrower assumes all risks of any acts or omissions of the beneficiary and any transferee of any Revolving Letter of Credit with respect to its use of such Revolving Letter of Credit. Neither a Revolving Fronting Bank nor any of its respective employees, officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for: (1) the use which may be made of any Revolving Letter of Credit or for any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (2) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement(s) thereon, even if such documents should in fact prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (3) payment by the Revolving Fronting Bank against presentation of documents which do not comply with the terms of any Revolving Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to such Revolving Letter of Credit; or (4) any other circumstance whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Revolving Letter of Credit; provided that the Borrower shall have a claim against the applicable Revolving Fronting Bank, and such Revolving Fronting Bank shall be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or special, damages
44 suffered by the Borrower which are found in a final, unappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction to have been caused by (x) such Revolving Fronting Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence in determining whether documents presented under any Revolving Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof or (y) such Revolving Fronting Bank's willful failure to pay, or gross negligence resulting in a failure to pay, any Revolving L/C Drawing after the presentation to it by the beneficiary (or any transferee of the Revolving Letter of Credit) of a draft and other required documentation strictly complying with the terms and conditions of the Revolving Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, a Revolving Fronting Bank may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation. (iv) Revolving Fronting Banks and Affiliates. Each Revolving Fronting Bank shall have the same rights and powers under the Financing Documents as any other Bank and may exercise or refrain from exercising the same as though they were not Revolving Fronting Banks (in each case to the extent such Revolving Fronting Bank is also a Bank), and the Revolving Fronting Banks and their respective affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or affiliate of the Borrower as if they were not Revolving Fronting Banks hereunder. (i) Applicability of ISP98. Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the Revolving Fronting Bank and the Borrower when a Revolving Letter of Credit is issued (or deemed issued), the rules of the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law and Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time issuance) shall apply to the Revolving Letter of Credit. Section 2.04 Evidence of Debt. (a) Each Bank Party shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank Party resulting from each Loan owing to such Bank Party from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Bank Party from time to time hereunder. The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Bank Party to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness is required or appropriate in order for such Bank Party to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Loans owing to, or to be made by, such Bank Party, the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Bank Party, with a copy to the Agent, a Revolving Credit Loan Note, a Tranche A Term Loan Note, a Tranche B Term Loan Note, a Tranche C Term Loan Note, or the Drax Loan Note, as applicable, in substantially the form of Exhibits A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4 and A-5 hereto, respectively, payable to the order of such Bank Party in a principal amount equal to the Loans owing to, or to be made by, such Bank Party. All references to Notes in the Financing Documents shall mean Notes, if any, issued hereunder. (b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 10.06(f) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Bank Party, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Loan made hereunder (or
45 deemed to be made hereunder), whether such Loan bears interest at the Base Rate or the Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate, and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto; (ii) the terms of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it; (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Bank Party hereunder; and (iv) the amount of any sums received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Bank Party's share thereof. (c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Bank Party in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be prima facie evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Bank Party and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Bank Party, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; provided, however, that the failure of the Agent or such Bank Party to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts, shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. Section 2.05 Maturity of Loans. Each Loan shall mature, and the principal amount thereof shall be due and payable (together with interest accrued thereon), on the Termination Date. Section 2.06 Interest Rates. (a) Each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for each day from the date such Loan is made until it becomes due, at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate Margin plus the Base Rate for such day. Such interest shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Quarterly Payment Date. (b) Each Euro-Dollar Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for each day during each Interest Period applicable thereto, at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Euro-Dollar Margin for such day plus the Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate applicable to such Interest Period. Such interest shall be payable for each Interest Period on the last day thereof and, if such Interest Period is longer than three months, at intervals of three months after the first day thereof. (c) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(a) or an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(g) or 6.01(h) with respect to the Borrower, the Borrower shall pay interest on (X) (i) the outstanding principal amount of each Base Rate Loan owing to each Bank Party, payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Base Rate Loan pursuant to Section 2.06(a) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, at a rate per annum equal to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on the Base Rate Loans on which such interest has accrued pursuant to Section 2.06(a) above and (Y)(i) the outstanding principal amount of each Euro-Dollar Rate Loan owing to each Bank Party payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to a rate per annum equal to the higher of (i) the sum of 2% plus the Euro-Dollar Margin for such day
46 plus the Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate applicable to such Euro-Dollar Loan and (ii) the sum of 2% plus the Euro-Dollar Margin for such day plus the quotient obtained (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next higher 1/100th of 1%) by dividing (x) the average (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next higher 1/16th of 1%) of the respective rates per annum at which one day (or, if such amount due remains unpaid more than three Euro-Dollar Business Days, then for such other period of time not longer than three months as the Agent may select) deposits in dollars in an amount approximately equal to such overdue payment due to each of the Reference Banks are offered to such Reference Bank in the London interbank market for the applicable period determined as provided above by (y) 1.00 minus the Euro-Dollar Reserve Percentage (or, if the circumstances described in clause (a) or (b) of Section 8.01 shall exist, at a rate per annum equal to the sum of 2% plus the rate applicable to Base Rate Loans for such day)(the "Euro-Dollar Default Rate") and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, at a rate per annum equal to the Euro-Dollar Default Rate the Euro-Dollars Loans on which such interest has accrued pursuant to Section 2.06(b) above. (d) The Agent shall determine each interest rate applicable to the Loans and Reimbursement Obligations hereunder. The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the participating Banks of each rate of interest so determined, and its determination thereof shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. (e) Each Reference Bank agrees to use its best efforts to furnish quotations to the Agent as contemplated by this Section. If any Reference Bank does not furnish a timely quotation, the Agent shall determine the relevant interest rate on the basis of the quotation or quotations furnished by the remaining Reference Bank or Banks or, if none of such quotations is available on a timely basis, the provisions of Section 8.01 shall apply. Section 2.07 Method of Electing Interest Rates. (a) The Loans included in each Borrowing shall bear interest initially at the type of rate specified by the Borrower in the applicable Notice of Borrowing. Thereafter, the Borrower may from time to time elect to change or continue the type of interest rate borne by each Group of Loans (subject to Section 2.07(d) and the provisions of Article 8), as follows: (i) if such Loans are Base Rate Loans, the Borrower may elect to convert such Loans to Euro-Dollar Loans as of any Euro-Dollar Business Day; (ii) if such Loans are Euro-Dollar Loans, the Borrower may elect to convert such Loans to Base Rate Loans as of any Domestic Business Day or elect to continue such Loans as Euro-Dollar Loans for an additional Interest Period, subject to Section 2.14 if any such conversion is effective on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period applicable to such Loans. Each such election shall be made by delivering a notice (a "Notice of Interest Rate Election") to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Euro-Dollar Business Day before the conversion or continuation selected in such notice is to be effective (unless the relevant Loans are to be converted from Euro-Dollar Loans to Base Rate
47 Loans, in which case such notice shall be delivered to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date such conversion is to be effective). A Notice of Interest Rate Election may, if it so specifies, apply to only a portion of the aggregate principal amount of the relevant Group of Loans; provided that (i) such portion is allocated ratably among the Loans comprising such Group and (ii) the portion to which such Notice applies, and the remaining portion to which it does not apply, are each at least $5,000,000 (unless such portion is comprised of Base Rate Loans). If no such notice is timely received before the end of an Interest Period for any Group of Euro-Dollar Loans, the Borrower shall be deemed to have elected that such Group of Loans be converted to Base Rate Loans at the end of such Interest Period. (b) Each Notice of Interest Rate Election shall specify: (i) the Group of Loans (or portion thereof) to which such notice applies; (ii) the date on which the conversion or continuation selected in such notice is to be effective, which shall comply with the applicable clause of Section 2.07(a) above; (iii) if the Loans comprising such Group are to be converted, the new type of Loans and, if the Loans resulting from such conversion are to be Euro-Dollar Loans, the duration of the next succeeding Interest Period applicable thereto; and (iv) if such Loans are to be continued as Euro-Dollar Loans for an additional Interest Period, the duration of such additional Interest Period. Each Interest Period specified in a Notice of Interest Rate Election shall comply with the provisions of the definition of Interest Period. (c) Promptly after receiving a Notice of Interest Rate Election from the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.07(a) above, the Agent shall notify each Bank of the contents thereof and such notice shall not thereafter be revocable by any Borrower. (d) A Borrower shall not be entitled to elect to convert any Loans to, or continue any Loans for an additional Interest Period as, Euro-Dollar Loans if (i) the aggregate principal amount of any Group of Euro-Dollar Loans created or continued as a result of such election would be less than $5,000,000 or (ii) a Default shall have occurred and be continuing when the Borrower delivers notice of such election to the Agent. (e) If any Loan is converted to a different type of Loan, the applicable Borrower shall pay, on the date of such conversion, the interest accrued to such date on the principal amount being converted. Section 2.08 Fees. (a) Commitment Fee. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent, for the account of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks, ratably in proportion to their Revolving Credit Loan Commitments, a commitment fee of 1/2 of 1% per annum on the daily amount by which the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments exceeds the aggregate Total Outstandings. Such commitment fee shall accrue from and including the Effective Date to but
48 excluding the Termination Date (or earlier date of termination of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments in their entirety). Accrued commitment fees under this Section 2.08(a) shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 and upon the date of termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments in their entirety. (b) Upfront Fee. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent on the Closing Date, for the account of each Bank Party, an upfront fee equal to 1.00% of (i) in the case of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks, each such Bank's Revolving Credit Loan Commitment; (ii) in the case of the Tranche A Term Loan Banks, Tranche B Term Loan Banks and Tranche C Term Loan Banks, each such Bank's outstanding Loans and (iii) in the case of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, its Drax LOC Commitment. (c) Additional Fee. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent on January 31, 2004 and on January 31, 2005, for the account of each Bank Party, a fee equal to 1.00% of (i) in the case of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks, each such Bank's Revolving Credit Loan Commitment on such date; (ii) in the case of the Tranche A Term Loan Banks, Tranche B Term Loan Banks and Tranche C Term Loan Banks, each such Bank's outstanding Term Loans on such date and (iii) in the case of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, its Drax LOC Commitment on such date, in each case after giving effect to any prepayment of the Loans made pursuant to Section 2.11(b)(vii) on or prior to such date. Section 2.09 Repayment of Term Loan Facility and Drax Letter of Credit Facility. (a) Repayment. The Borrower shall, on November 25, 2004, repay an aggregate principal amount of each Term Loan Facility and repay or cash collateralize the Drax Letter of Credit Facility in an amount equal to the Amortization Amount for such Facility. (b) Application of Repayment to Drax Letter of Credit Facility. The repayment of the Drax Letter of Credit Facility made pursuant to clause (a) above shall be first applied to repay the Drax Loans then outstanding and second deposited in the Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account to cash collateralize 100% of the Drax LOC Available Amount then outstanding. Section 2.10 Termination or Reduction of Commitments. (a) Optional. The Borrower may, upon at least three Domestic Business Days' notice to the Agent, (i) terminate the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments in their entirety at any time, if no Revolving Credit Loans or Revolving Letters of Credit are outstanding at such time or (ii) ratably reduce from time to time by an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any larger multiple thereof, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments in excess of the aggregate Total Outstandings. (b) Mandatory. (i) Scheduled Termination. The Revolving Credit Loan Commitments shall terminate on the Termination Date, and any Revolving Credit Loans and Reimbursement Obligations then outstanding (together with accrued interest thereon) shall be due and payable on such date.
49 (ii) Net Cash Proceeds of Asset Sales. On and after the date on which all of the Term Loan Facilities have been paid in full and the Drax LOC Liabilities have been paid in full or otherwise fully cash collateralized, in the event that the Borrower shall at any time, or from time to time, receive any Net Cash Proceeds from Covered Asset Sales, the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks shall, unless the Required Banks otherwise agree, be ratably reduced by such amounts and at such times as may be required to avoid any requirement that all or any portion of such Net Cash Proceeds be applied to repay, prepay, repurchase or defease any Debt of the Borrower that is subordinated in right of payment to the Debt of the Borrower under the Financing Documents. (iii) Prepayment. Any prepayment of the Revolving Credit Facility pursuant to Section 2.11(b)(ii) below shall automatically and permanently reduce, on the date of such prepayment, the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks on a pro rata basis by the applicable Reduction Amount. (c) Reductions Permanent. All reductions of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.10 shall be permanent. Section 2.11 Prepayment of the Loans. (a) Optional. (i) Subject in the case of any Euro-Dollar Loans to Section 2.13, the Borrower may, upon at least one Domestic Business Day's notice to the Agent, prepay any Loans that bear interest at the Base Rate or upon at least three Euro-Dollar Business Days' notice to the Agent, prepay any Euro-Dollar Loans, in each case in whole at any time, or from time to time in part in amounts aggregating $5,000,000 or any larger multiple of $1,000,000, by paying the principal amount to be prepaid together with accrued interest thereon to the date of prepayment. No Term Loan or Drax Loan shall be prepaid unless all Term Loans and Drax Loans are ratably prepaid (it being understood that for purposes of calculating such ratable share prior to the Tranche A Term Loan Facility being paid in full, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments shall be deemed to be part of the Tranche A Term Loan Facility). Any prepayment of Loans in respect of any Term Loan Facility or the Drax Letter of Credit Facility shall be applied ratably to prepay the Loans under the Term Loan Facilities and prepay or cash collateralize the Drax LOC Liabilities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11(c). (ii) Upon receipt of a notice of prepayment pursuant to this Section, the Agent shall promptly notify each Bank of the contents thereof and of such Banks' Ratable Share of such prepayment and such notice shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower. (b) Mandatory. (i) The Borrower shall, reasonably promptly following the receipt by the Borrower of (A) Net Cash Proceeds from any Covered Asset Sales but in no event later than three Business Days after receipt thereof, (B) Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(xii) relating to a bridge financing of any Covered Asset Sale or (C) Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(b)(iv) relating to a bridge financing of any Covered Asset Sale, prepay an aggregate principal amount of the Term Loans and prepay or cash collateralize the Drax LOC Liabilities in an amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of such Net Cash Proceeds. Each such prepayment shall be applied
50 ratably to each of the Term Loan Facilities and the Drax Letter of Credit Facility as set forth in clause (c) below (it being understood that for purposes of calculating such ratable share prior to the Tranche A Term Loan Facility being paid in full, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments shall be deemed to be part of the Tranche A Term Loan Facility). (ii) The Borrower shall, reasonably promptly following the receipt of (A) Net Cash Proceeds from any Asset Sale of any Capital Stock of a Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor or any Asset Sale of any assets of such Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(xii) relating to a bridge financing of any Asset Sale described in clause (A), (C) Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(b)(iv) relating to a bridge financing of any Asset Sale described in clause (A) or (D) until the Tranche A Term Loan Facility is repaid in full and the Revolving Credit Loan Facility is repaid in full and the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments are permanently reduced to zero, an amount equal to the Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence by a Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Loan Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(b)(viii) but in no event later than three Business Days after receipt thereof, prepay the Revolving Credit Loan Facility and the Tranche A Term Loan Facility in an aggregate amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of such Net Cash Proceeds. Each such prepayment shall be applied ratably to the Tranche A Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Credit Loan Facility based on the amounts outstanding at such time under the Tranche A Term Loan Facility and the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments at such time. (iii) The Borrower shall, reasonably promptly following receipt of (A) Net Cash Proceeds from any Asset Sale of any Capital Stock of the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor or any Asset Sale of any assets of the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(xii) relating to a bridge financing of any Asset Sale described in clause (A), (C) Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(b)(iv) relating to a bridge financing of any Asset Sale described in clause (A) or (D) until the Tranche C Term Loan Facility is repaid in full, an amount equal to the Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence by the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(b)(ix) but in no event later than three Business Days after receipt thereof, prepay the Tranche C Term Loan Facility in an aggregate amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of such Net Cash Proceeds. (iv) The Borrower shall, reasonably promptly following the date of receipt of Net Cash Proceeds from the issuance of Debt by the Borrower permitted by Section 5.07(a)(xi) but in no event later than three Business Days after receipt thereof, prepay an aggregate principal amount of the Term Loans and prepay or cash collateralize the Drax LOC Liabilities in an aggregate amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of such Net Cash Proceeds. Each such prepayment shall be applied ratably to each of the Term Loan Facilities and the Drax Letter of Credit Facility as set forth in clause (c) below (it being understood that for purposes of calculating such ratable share prior to the Tranche A Term Loan Facility being paid in full, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments shall be deemed to be part of the Tranche A Term Loan Facility).
51 (v) Subject to clause (e) below, the Borrower shall, reasonably promptly following the date of receipt of Net Cash Proceeds from any Equity Issuance by the Borrower but in no event later than three Business Days after receipt thereof, prepay an aggregate principal amount of the Term Loans and prepay or cash collateralize the Drax LOC Liabilities in an aggregate amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of 50% of such Net Cash Proceeds. Each such prepayment shall be applied ratably to each of the Term Loan Facilities and the Drax Letter of Credit Facility as set forth in clause (c) below (it being understood that for purposes of calculating such ratable share prior to the Tranche A Term Loan Facility being paid in full, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments shall be deemed to be part of the Tranche A Term Loan Facility). (vi) The Borrower shall, on the date of receipt of Net Cash Proceeds in excess of $100,000,000 from the issuance of Debt by any Subsidiary of the Borrower permitted pursuant to Section 5.07(b)(ii) (but only to the extent applicable pursuant to the second proviso thereof), Section 5.07(b)(vi), 5.07(b)(viii) (to the extent that the Tranche A Term Loan Facility is repaid in full and the Revolving Credit Facility is repaid in full and the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments are permanently reduced to zero) and 5.07(b)(ix) (to the extent the Tranche C Term Loan Facility is repaid in full) prepay an aggregate principal amount of the Term Loans and prepay or cash collateralize the Drax LOC Liabilities in an aggregate amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of an amount equal to 100%, in the case of Debt issued by IPALCO, and in all other cases, an amount equal to 75% of such Net Cash Proceeds. Each such prepayment shall be applied ratably to each of the Term Loan Facilities and the Drax Letter of Credit Facility as set forth in clause (c) below (it being understood that for purposes of calculating such ratable share prior to the Tranche A Term Loan Facility being paid in full, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments shall be deemed to be part of the Tranche A Term Loan Facility). (vii) The Borrower shall, not later than 31 days after the end of each fiscal year, so long as the Minimum Liquidity Level on the last day of such fiscal year is greater than $400,000,000, prepay an aggregate principal amount of the Term Loans and prepay or cash collateralize the Drax LOC Liabilities in an aggregate amount equal to the lesser of the Banks' Ratable Share of (A) 75% of the Adjusted Free Cash Flow for such fiscal year and (B) the maximum amount of Adjusted Free Cash Flow for such fiscal year so that the Minimum Liquidity Level on the last day of such fiscal year after giving effect to this prepayment would not be less than $400,000,000. Each such prepayment shall be applied ratably to each of the Term Loan Facilities and the Drax Letter of Credit Facility as set forth in clause (c) below (it being understood that for purposes of calculating such ratable share prior to the Tranche A Term Loan Facility being paid in full, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments shall be deemed to be part of the Tranche A Term Loan Facility). (c) Application of Prepayments to Drax Letter of Credit Facility. Prepayments of the Drax Letter of Credit Facility made pursuant to clauses (a)(i), (b)(i), (iv), (v), (vi) or (vii) above shall be first applied to prepay the Drax Loans and second deposited in the Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account to cash collateralize 100% of the Drax LOC Available Amount then outstanding.
52 (d) Application of Prepayments to Revolving Credit Loan Facility. Prepayments of the Revolving Credit Loan Facility made pursuant to clause (b)(ii) above shall be first applied to prepay ratably any unpaid Reimbursement Obligations in respect of Revolving L/C Drawings, second applied to prepay Revolving Credit Loans then outstanding and third deposited in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account to cash collateralize 100% of the Available Amount of the Revolving Letters of Credit then outstanding; and the amount remaining (if any) (up to the aggregate Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments at such time) after such prepayments and cash collateralization (the sum of such prepayment amounts and cash collateralization amounts and remaining amount (up to the aggregate Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments at such time) being referred to herein as the "Reduction Amount") may be retained by the Borrower and the Revolving Credit Facility shall be permanently reduced as set forth in Section 2.10(b)(ii). (e) Application of Prepayment to Tranche C Term Loan in Certain Circumstances. Notwithstanding anything in Section 2.11(b) to the contrary, the Borrower shall, reasonably promptly following the date of receipt of the first $162,500,000 of Net Cash Proceeds from any Equity Issuance by the Borrower but in no event later than three Business Days after receipt thereof, prepay ratably an aggregate principal amount of the Tranche C Term Loans equal to the Tranche C Percentage of such Net Cash Proceeds up to $87,500,000. Section 2.12 General Provisions as to Payments. (a) The Borrower shall make each payment of principal of, and interest on, the Loans and Reimbursement Obligations and of fees hereunder, not later than 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the date when due, in Federal or other funds immediately available in New York City, without set-off, counterclaim or other deduction, to the Agent at its address referred to in Section 10.01. The Agent will promptly distribute to each Bank Party its ratable share of each such payment received by the Agent for the account of the Bank Parties. Whenever any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Base Rate Loans or Reimbursement Obligations or of fees shall be due on a day which is not a Domestic Business Day, the date for payment thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Domestic Business Day. Whenever any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Euro-Dollar Loans shall be due on a day which is not a Euro-Dollar Business Day, the date for payment thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Euro-Dollar Business Day unless such Euro-Dollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case the date for payment thereof shall be the next preceding Euro-Dollar Business Day. If the date for any payment of principal is extended by operation of law or otherwise, interest thereon shall be payable for such extended time. (b) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due from the Borrower to the Bank Parties hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Bank Party on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Bank Party. If and to the extent that the Borrower shall not have so made such payment, each Bank Party shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Bank Party together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such
53 amount is distributed to such Bank Party until the date such Bank Party repays such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate. Section 2.13 Funding Losses. If the Borrower makes any payment of principal with respect to any Euro-Dollar Loan or any Euro-Dollar Loan is converted to a Base Rate Loan (pursuant to Article 2, 6 or 8 or otherwise) on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto, or the last day of an applicable period fixed pursuant to Section 2.06(c), or if the Borrower fails to borrow, prepay, convert or continue any Euro-Dollar Loans after notice has been given to any Bank Party in accordance with Section 2.02(b), 2.07(c) or 2.11(a), the Borrower shall reimburse each Bank Party within 15 days after demand for any resulting loss or expense incurred by it (or by an existing or prospective Participant in the related Loan), including (without limitation) any loss incurred in obtaining, liquidating or employing deposits from third parties, but excluding loss of margin for the period after such payment or conversion or failure to borrow, prepay, convert or continue; provided that such Bank Party shall have delivered to the Borrower a certificate as to the amount of such loss or expense, which certificate shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. Section 2.14 Computation of Interest and Fees. Interest based on the Base Rate hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and paid for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). All other interest and fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and paid for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). Section 2.15 Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account. (a) All amounts required to be deposited as cash collateral with the Collateral Agent pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.16 or Section 6.03 (other than with respect to the cash collateral deposited on account of the Drax LOC Liabilities) shall be deposited in a cash collateral account (the "Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account") established by the Borrower with the Collateral Agent, to be held, applied or released for application as provided in this Section 2.15 and Section 2.16. (b) The Borrower hereby grants to the Collateral Agent for the ratable benefit of the Revolving Fronting Banks and the other Lender Parties as their respective interests appear, a security interest in the Borrower's right, title and interest in and to the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account and all funds and financial assets from time to time credited thereto, all interest, dividends, distributions, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of such funds and financial assets, and all certificates and instruments, if any, from time to time representing or evidencing the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account and all of proceeds of any of the foregoing (the "Revolving L/C Collateral"), to secure all of the Borrower's Obligations hereunder and the other Credit Agreement Documents.
54 (c) If and when any portion of the Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities on which any deposit of cash collateral was based (the "Relevant Contingent Exposure") shall become fixed (a "Direct Exposure") as a result of the payment by a Revolving Fronting Bank of a draft presented under any relevant Revolving Letter of Credit (including any such payment under an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit for which the relevant Revolving Fronting Bank, as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, is not reimbursed in full by the Revolving Credit Loan Banks), the amount of such Direct Exposure (but not more than the amount in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account at the time) shall be withdrawn by the Agent from the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account and shall be paid to the relevant Revolving Fronting Bank to be applied against such Direct Exposure and the Relevant Contingent Exposure shall thereupon be reduced by such amount. (d) Interest and other payments and distributions made on or with respect to the Revolving L/C Collateral held by the Collateral Agent shall be for the account of the Borrower and shall constitute additional Revolving L/C Collateral to be held by the Agent; provided that the Agent shall have no obligation to invest any Revolving L/C Collateral on behalf of the Borrower or any other Person. Beyond the exercise of reasonable care in the custody thereof, the Agent shall have no duty as to any Revolving L/C Collateral in its possession or control or in the possession or control of any agent or bailee or any income thereon or as to the preservation of rights against prior parties or any other rights pertaining thereto. The Collateral Agent shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and preservation of the Revolving L/C Collateral in its possession if the Revolving L/C Collateral is accorded treatment substantially equal to that which it accords its own property, and shall not be liable or responsible for any loss or damage to any of the Revolving L/C Collateral, or for any diminution in the value thereof, by reason of the act or omission of any agent or bailee selected by the Collateral Agent in good faith. All expenses and liabilities incurred by the Collateral Agent in connection with taking, holding and disposing of any Revolving L/C Collateral (including customary custody and similar fees with respect to any Revolving L/C Collateral held directly by the Agent and the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account) shall be paid by the Borrower from time to time upon demand. Upon an Actionable Default, the Collateral Agent shall be entitled to apply (and, at the request of the Required Banks but subject to applicable law, shall apply) Revolving L/C Collateral or the proceeds thereof to payment of any such expenses, liabilities and fees. After the termination of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments of the Revolving Loan Credit Loan Banks, the termination of all Revolving Letters of Credit and the repayment in full of all outstanding Reimbursement Obligations in respect of the Revolving Letters of Credit, the Collateral Agent shall transfer the remaining Revolving L/C Collateral or the proceeds thereof (the "Excess Revolving L/C Collateral") to the Collateral Account. Notwithstanding any other term or provision of this Agreement, and for the avoidance of doubt, the Revolving L/C Collateral shall be paid first to the relevant Revolving Fronting Bank in satisfaction of any Direct Exposures or Relevant Contingent Exposures and no Revolving L/C Collateral shall be released or disbursed to any party other than the relevant Revolving Fronting Banks until the satisfaction of all Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities and the termination of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments and all Revolving Letters of Credit.
55 Section 2.16 Computations of Outstandings; Determination of Available Amount of Alternative Currency Letters of Credit. (a) Whenever reference is made in this Agreement to the Total Outstandings on any date under this Agreement, such reference shall refer to the Total Outstandings on such date after giving effect to all Extensions of Credit to be made on such date. For purposes of calculating the Total Outstandings on any date of determination, the aggregate Available Amount in respect of all Alternative Currency Letters of Credit shall be deemed to equal the amount thereof most recently reported to the Agent pursuant to subsection (b) below. At no time shall the Total Outstandings under this Agreement exceed the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments, plus (ii) the amounts on deposit in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account (such sum being referred to herein as the "Maximum Outstanding Exposure"). References to the Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments shall refer to the excess, if any, of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments over the Total Outstandings; and references to the unused portion of any Revolving Credit Loan Commitment shall refer to the Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitment of such Bank. (b) Each Revolving Fronting Bank that issues an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit shall (i) on the first Domestic Business Day of each calendar month, deliver to the Agent a schedule listing (A) each outstanding Alternative Currency Letter of Credit issued by such Revolving Fronting Bank, (B) the maximum aggregate amount available to be drawn under each such Alternative Currency Letter of Credit at any time on or after such date (denominated in the applicable Alternative Currency, assuming the compliance with and satisfaction of all conditions for Revolving L/C Drawing enumerated therein) and (C) the equivalent in Dollars of such amount (as determined by such Revolving Fronting Bank on the basis of exchange rates available to or otherwise used by such Revolving Fronting Bank), together with the applicable exchange rate utilized by such Revolving Fronting Bank and the source thereof (it being agreed and understood that such applicable exchange rate may be adjusted by a reasonable and customary volatility factor as agreed by the Borrower and such Revolving Fronting Bank); (ii) on the date of issuance of any Alternative Currency Letter of Credit (including, if any Alternative Currency Letters of Credit are issued or deemed issued on the Closing Date, on the Closing Date), deliver to the Agent a schedule listing the information described in clauses (B) and (C) above; (iii) on the date of any increase or decrease in the Available Amount of any Alternative Currency Letter of Credit (other than any increase or decrease attributable solely to currency exchange rate fluctuations), deliver to the Agent a schedule listing the information described in clauses (B) and (C) above after giving effect to such increase or decrease (as the case may be) and (iv) not later than one Domestic Business Day after its receipt of a written request therefor from the Agent or any Bank, deliver to the Agent a schedule listing the information described in clauses (A), (B) and (C) above. The Collateral Agent shall promptly after its receipt thereof deliver a copy of each such schedule to the Collateral Agent, the Borrower and the Banks. For all purposes under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly set forth herein, the Available Amount in respect of each Alternative Currency Letter of Credit shall be deemed to equal, on any date of determination, the Dollar Equivalent thereof as most recently reported to the Agent by the relevant Revolving Fronting Bank pursuant to this subsection (b). (c) If, on (i) the date that any schedule is delivered by a Revolving Fronting Bank to the Agent pursuant to subsection (b) above; (ii) any date, after giving effect to reduction
56 in the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments or (iii) any other date, Total Outstandings on such date (calculated pursuant to subsection (a) and (b) above) exceeds the Maximum Outstanding Exposure, then within two Domestic Business Days thereafter the Borrower shall be obligated to deposit cash collateral with the Collateral Agent in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account in an amount equal to such excess to be held, applied or released for application as provided in Section 2.15. (d) If at any time the Maximum Outstanding Exposure exceeds the Total Outstandings hereunder, the Borrower may provide a written notice to the Collateral Agent requesting the Collateral Agent to withdraw such excess amount from the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account and pay such amount to the Borrower, and, provided that no Actionable Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Collateral Agent shall promptly undertake such actions in accordance with the instructions of the Borrower. If an Actionable Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Collateral Agent shall not take any of the foregoing actions and, if and when requested by the Required Banks, the amounts held in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account shall be withdrawn by the Collateral Agent, and the proceeds thereof shall be first applied by the Collateral Agent to repay the Total Outstandings and other due and unpaid amounts required to be paid by the Borrower hereunder and second, held, applied or transferred as provided in Section 2.15. Section 2.17 Alternative Currency Letter of Credit Issuances. It is understood that, if Revolving Letters of Credit are issued in an Alternative Currency, a circumstance may arise where the United States dollars ("Dollars") needed to reimburse a Revolving Fronting Bank may exceed the Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitment of the Revolving Credit Loan Banks and the amounts on deposit in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account available for that purpose. This situation could occur if an Alternative Currency exchange rate between the currency of a Revolving Letter of Credit issuance and Dollars changes between the date of issuance of, and the date of funding a Revolving L/C Drawing on, an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit (or funding a deposit to the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account to cover issuances in excess of the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments) so that more Dollars are needed to purchase the Alternative Currency on the date of funding of the Revolving L/C Drawing on an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit (or funding a deposit to the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account) than would have been needed to fund a Revolving L/C Drawing made on the issuance date of such Revolving Letter of Credit (i.e., the currency of issuance has appreciated against the Dollar between the date of issuance and the date of funding or cash collateral deposit). In such a circumstance, the Revolving Fronting Banks agree as follows: (a) (x) Any shortfall under the Revolving Credit Loan Commitment to purchase participations in Revolving L/C Drawings under Revolving Letters of Credit shall be allocated pro rata among the Revolving Fronting Banks who have issued Alternative Currency Letters of Credit for which the currency of issuance has appreciated against the Dollar ("Adverse Alternative Currency Letters of Credit"); (y) the pro rata allocation shall be based on the Dollar Equivalent of the face amount of each Adverse Alternative Currency Letter of Credit, measured at the issuance date of each such Adverse Alternative Currency Letter of Credit and (z) Revolving Credit Loan Commitments shall not be used to purchase participations in Adverse Alternative Currency Letters of Credit to the extent that use of those Revolving Credit Loan Commitments covers any increase in the Dollar Equivalent of an Adverse Alternative Currency
57 Letters of Credit since the date of issuance of the Revolving Letter of Credit if following such purchase remaining Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments are insufficient to purchase participations in the remaining outstanding Revolving Letters of Credit and (b) amounts deposited in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account shall be allocated first to cover shortfalls to the extent existing on the last date of actual deposit to the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account, or if later, the most recent date of determination pursuant to Section 2.16(b), and second to any additional shortfalls (allocated pro rata among such shortfalls); provided that funds on deposit in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account, if any, may not be applied to fund a Revolving L/C Drawing on an Adverse Alternative Currency Letter of Credit to the extent those funds have been allocated to cover an exposure existing on the last date of deposit to the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account if following the application a previously covered exposure is left without cash collateral. Section 2.18 Drax Letter of Credit. (a) Deemed Issuance of a Drax Letter of Credit. On and as of the Effective Date, the Existing Drax Letter of Credit shall be the Drax Letter of Credit for all purposes hereunder. (b) Participations in Drax Letter of Credit. Upon the Effective Date, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto, to have sold to each Drax LOC Bank (other than the Drax LOC Fronting Bank) and each Participant, and each such Drax LOC Bank and each such Participant shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto, to have purchased from the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, a participation in the Drax Letter of Credit and the related Drax LOC Liabilities, in the amount required so that the participations of the Drax LOC Banks (including the Drax LOC Fronting Bank's retained participation) and the Participants therein shall be in proportion to their respective Drax LOC Commitment or their respective participation interests, as the case may be. (c) Required Terms for Drax Letter of Credit. The Drax Letter of Credit shall: (i) by its terms expire on the Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date; (ii) have a Drax LOC Available Amount equal to not more than the amount of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank's Drax LOC Commitment; (iii) be in a form acceptable to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank; and (iv) be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use the Drax Letter of Credit and any proceeds in respect thereof) solely to fulfill obligations of AES Drax Limited, AES Drax Holdings Limited, AES Drax Electric Limited and AES Drax Power Limited (formerly named National Power Drax Limited) under the Group Account Agreement dated 30th November, 1999 as amended on 10th April, 2000 and further amended and restated on 2nd August, 2000 (the "Drax Agreement"). None of such proceeds will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental or ultimate, of buying or carrying any "margin stock" within the meaning of Regulation U.
58 (d) Drax L/C Drawings Under the Drax Letter of Credit. (i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of the Drax Letter of Credit of demand for payment under the Drax Letter of Credit, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank shall determine in accordance with the terms of the Drax Letter of Credit whether such request for payment should be honored. (ii) If the Drax LOC Fronting Bank determines that a demand for payment by the beneficiary of the Drax Letter of Credit should be honored, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank shall make available to the beneficiary in accordance with the terms of the Drax Letter of Credit the amount of the Drax L/C Drawing under the Drax Letter of Credit. The Drax LOC Fronting Bank shall thereupon promptly notify the Borrower and the Agent of the amount of such Drax L/C Drawing paid by it. (e) Reimbursement and Other Payments by the Borrower. (i) If any amount is drawn under the Drax Letter of Credit, the Borrower irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to reimburse the Drax LOC Fronting Bank for all amounts paid by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank upon such Drax L/C Drawing, together with any and all reasonable charges and expenses which the Drax LOC Fronting Bank may pay or incur relative to such Drax L/C Drawing and all such amounts due from the Borrower shall bear interest, payable on the date upon which such amounts shall be due and payable, on the amount drawn for each day from and including the date such amount is drawn to but excluding the date such reimbursement payment is paid. If the Drax LOC Fronting Bank makes any payment under the Drax Letter of Credit, such payment by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank of such amounts shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank of a Drax Loan to the Borrower in the amount equal to the Dollar equivalent (as determined on the date of such payment) of such payment and such Drax Loan shall constitute the reimbursement by the Borrower of the amounts paid by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank upon the related Drax L/C Drawing. Each such Drax Loan shall initially be made as a Base Rate Loan, subject to the Borrower's right to convert each such Loan to a Euro Dollar Loan pursuant to Section 2.07. In no event shall the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Drax Loans exceed on any date of determination the Dollar equivalent (as determined on such date) of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank's Drax LOC Commitment. Drax Loans are not revolving in nature, and amounts repaid or prepaid in respect thereof may not be reborrowed. The Borrower shall reimburse the Drax LOC Fronting Bank by repaying all outstanding Drax Loans on the Termination Date. Such repayment shall be in addition to the Borrower's payment of Obligations arising under Sections 2.09 and 2.10 hereof. (ii) Each payment to be made by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.18(e) shall be made, in Federal or other funds immediately available, to the Agent at its address specified in Section 10.01. (iii) The Obligations of the Borrower to reimburse the Drax LOC Fronting Bank under this Section 2.18(e) by repaying the Drax Loans shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, under all circumstances whatsoever, including, without limitation, the following circumstances:
59 (1) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Financing Document; (2) any amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any Financing Document (except, in the case of an effective amendment to, waiver of or consent to a departure from any provision of this Agreement, to the extent specified herein); (3) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right which the Borrower may have at any time against the beneficiary of the Drax Letter of Credit (or any Person or entity for whom such beneficiary may be acting), the Agent, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank or any other Person or entity, whether in connection with this Agreement, any other Financing Document or any unrelated transaction; (4) any statement or any other document presented under the Drax Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect whatsoever; (5) payment by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank under any Drax Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or document which does not comply with the terms of the Drax Letter of Credit; or (6) to the extent permitted under applicable law, any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing. (f) Payments by Drax LOC Banks and Participants with Respect to the Drax Letter of Credit. (i) Each Drax LOC Bank and each Participant shall make available an amount equal to its ratable share of any Drax L/C Drawing under the Drax Letter of Credit, in Federal or other funds immediately available in New York City, to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank by 3:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date on which such Drax L/C Drawing is made, together with interest on such amount for the period from and including the date of such Drax L/C Drawing to but excluding the date upon which such amount is to be made available at the Federal Funds Rate on the date of such Drax L/C Drawing, at the Drax LOC Fronting Bank's address referred to in Section 10.01. Each Drax LOC Bank and each Participant shall be subrogated to the rights of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank against the Borrower to the extent such payment due from such Drax LOC Bank or such Participant, as the case may be, to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank is paid, plus interest thereon, from and including the day such amount is due from the Drax LOC Bank to such Drax LOC Fronting Bank to but excluding the day the Borrower makes payment to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank in respect of a Drax Loan, whether before or after judgment, at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate plus the Euro-Dollar Margin. (ii) If any Drax LOC Bank or Participant fails to pay any amount required pursuant to subsection (i) of this Section 2.18(f) on the date on which such payment is due, interest, payable on demand, shall accrue on the obligation of such Drax LOC Bank or such Participant, as the case may be, to make such payment, for each day from and including the date such payment becomes due to but excluding the date such Drax LOC Bank or such Participant,
60 as the case may be, makes such payment at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. Any payment made by any Drax LOC Bank or any Participant, as the case may be, after 3:00 P.M. (New York City time) on any Domestic Business Day shall be deemed for purposes of the preceding sentence to have been made on the next succeeding Domestic Business Day. (iii) If the Borrower shall reimburse the Drax LOC Fronting Bank by repaying or prepaying any Drax Loan in respect of any Drax L/C Drawing under the Drax Letter of Credit after the Drax LOC Banks and the Participants shall have made funds available to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank with respect to such Drax L/C Drawing in accordance with subsection (i) of this Section 2.18(f), the Drax LOC Fronting Bank shall promptly upon receipt of such reimbursement distribute to each Drax LOC Bank and each Participant its pro rata share thereof, including interest, to the extent received by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank. (iv) The several obligations of the Drax LOC Banks and the Participants to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank hereunder shall be absolute, irrevocable and unconditional under any and all circumstances whatsoever and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including, without limitation, (1) any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which any such Drax LOC Bank, any such Participant or any other Person may have against the Agent, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (2) the occurrence or continuance of a Default or an Event of Default or the termination of the Drax LOC Commitments or the Drax Letter of Credit; (3) any adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower or any other Person; (4) any breach of any Financing Document by any party thereto; (5) the fact that any condition precedent to the issuance of, or the making of any payment under, the Drax Letter of Credit was not in fact met; (6) any violation or asserted violation of law by any Bank or any affiliate thereof; or (7) to the extent permitted under applicable law, any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing. Each payment by each Drax LOC Bank and each Participant to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank for its own account shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. If the Drax LOC Fronting Bank is required at any time (whether before or after the Termination Date) to return to the Borrower or to a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official any portion of the payments made by the Borrower to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank in payment of any Drax Loan or interest thereon upon the insolvency of the Borrower, or the commencement of any case or proceeding under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law with respect to the Borrower, each Drax LOC Bank and each Participant shall, on demand of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, forthwith return to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank any amounts transferred to such Drax LOC Bank or such Participant, as the case may be, by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank in respect thereof pursuant to this subsection plus such Drax LOC Bank's or such Participant's (as the case may be) pro rata share of any interest on such payments required to be paid to the Person recovering such payments plus interest on the amount so demanded from the day such demand is made, if such demand is made by 2:00 P.M. (New York City time), or from the next following Domestic Business Day, if such demand is made after 2:00 P.M. (New York City time), to but not including the day such amounts are returned by such Drax LOC Bank or such Participant, as the case may be, to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank at a rate per annum for each day equal to (A) the Federal Funds Rate for the day of such demand and (B) the Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate plus 1% for each day thereafter. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision contained herein, in no event shall any Drax LOC Bank or any Participant be obligated to make any payment to the
61 Drax LOC Fronting Bank to the extent that such payment would cause such Drax LOC Bank's or such Participant's (as the case may be) pro rata share of the Drax LOC Total Outstandings hereunder to exceed such Drax LOC Bank's Drax LOC Commitment or such Participant's participation interest, as the case may be; provided that the foregoing shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower (which is absolute, unconditional and irrevocable) to reimburse the Drax LOC Fronting Bank for the entire amount of each payment made by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank under the Drax Letter of Credit by repaying each Drax Loan made in respect of each such payment, including any amount thereof that is not paid by any Drax LOC Bank or any Participant to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank (pursuant to this sentence or otherwise). (g) Drax Letter of Credit Commission; Issuance Fee. (i) Letter of Credit Commission. The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent a letter of credit commission with respect to the Drax Letter of Credit issued at its request or for its account, computed for each day from and including the date of issuance of the Drax Letter of Credit to but excluding the Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date, at the Drax Letter of Credit Commission Rate on the aggregate amount available for a Drax L/C Drawing under the Drax Letter of Credit from time to time (whether or not any conditions to a Drax L/C Drawing can then be met), such fee to be for the account of the Drax LOC Banks ratable in proportion to their Drax LOC Total Exposures. Such fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last Domestic Business Day of each January, April, July and October and upon the Termination Date. (ii) Issuance Fee. The Borrower shall pay to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank for its own account such fees with respect to the Drax Letter of Credit issued by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Drax LOC Fronting Bank. (iii) Limited Liability of Drax LOC Fronting Bank. As between the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, on the one hand, and the Borrower, on the other, the Borrower assumes all risks of any acts or omissions of the beneficiary and any transferee of the Drax Letter of Credit with respect to its use of the Drax Letter of Credit. Neither the Drax LOC Fronting Bank nor any of its respective employees, officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for: (1) the use which may be made of the Drax Letter of Credit or for any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (2) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement(s) thereon, even if such documents should in fact prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (3) payment by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank against presentation of documents which do not comply with the terms of the Drax Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to the Drax Letter of Credit; or (4) any other circumstance whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under the Drax Letter of Credit; provided that the Borrower shall have a claim against the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, and the Drax LOC Fronting Bank shall be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or special, damages suffered by the Borrower which are found in a final, unappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction to have been caused by (x) the Drax LOC Fronting Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence in determining whether documents presented under the Drax Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof or (y) the Drax LOC Fronting Bank's willful failure to pay, or gross negligence resulting in a failure to pay, any Drax L/C Drawing after the
62 presentation to it by the beneficiary (or any transferee of the Drax Letter of Credit) of a draft and other required documentation strictly complying with the terms and conditions of the Drax Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation. (iv) Drax LOC Fronting Banks and Affiliates. The Drax LOC Fronting Bank shall have the same rights and powers under the Financing Documents as any other Drax LOC Bank and may exercise or refrain from exercising the same as though it were not the Drax LOC Fronting Bank (in each case to the extent the Drax LOC Fronting Bank is also an Drax LOC Bank), and the Drax LOC Fronting Bank and its respective affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or affiliate of the Borrower as if it were not the Drax LOC Fronting Bank hereunder. (h) Applicability of ISP98. Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank and the Borrower, the rules of the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law and Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time issuance) shall apply to the Drax Letter of Credit. Section 2.19 Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account. (a) All amounts required to be deposited as cash collateral with respect to the Drax LOC Liabilities with the Agent pursuant to Section 2.11 or Section 6.03 shall be deposited in a cash collateral account (the "Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account") established by the Borrower with the Collateral Agent, to be held, applied or released for application as provided in this Section 2.19. (b) The Borrower hereby grants to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank and the other Lender Parties as their respective interests appear, a security interest in, the Borrower's right, title and interest in and to the Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account and all funds and financial assets from time to time credited thereto, all interest, dividends, distributions, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of such funds and financial assets, and all certificates and instruments, if any, from time to time representing or evidencing the Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account and all of the proceeds of any of the foregoing (the "Drax LOC Collateral"), to secure all of the Borrower's Obligations hereunder and the other Credit Agreement Documents. (c) If and when any portion of the Drax LOC Liabilities on which any deposit of cash collateral was based (the "Drax LOC Relevant Contingent Exposure") shall become fixed (a "Drax LOC Direct Exposure") as a result of the payment by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank of a Drax L/C Drawing presented under the Drax Letter of Credit, the amount of such Drax LOC Direct Exposure (but not more than the amount in the Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account at the time) shall be withdrawn by the Collateral Agent from the Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account and shall be paid to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank to be applied against such Drax LOC Direct Exposure and the Drax LOC Relevant Contingent Exposure shall thereupon be reduced by such amount.
63 (d) Interest and other payments and distributions made on or with respect to the Drax LOC Collateral held by the Collateral Agent shall be for the account of the Borrower and shall constitute Drax LOC Collateral to be held by the Collateral Agent; provided that the Agent shall have no obligation to invest any of the Drax LOC Collateral on behalf of the Borrower or any other Person. Beyond the exercise of reasonable care in the custody thereof, the Collateral Agent shall have no duty as to any Drax LOC Collateral in its possession or control or in the possession or control of any agent or bailee or any income thereon or as to the preservation of rights against prior parties or any other rights pertaining thereto. The Collateral Agent shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and preservation of the Drax LOC Collateral in its possession if the Drax LOC Collateral is accorded treatment substantially equal to that which it accords its own property, and shall not be liable or responsible for any loss or damage to any of the Drax LOC Collateral, or for any diminution in the value thereof, by reason of the act or omission of any agent or bailee selected by the Collateral Agent in good faith. All expenses and liabilities incurred by the Collateral Agent in connection with taking, holding and disposing of any Drax LOC Collateral (including customary custody and similar fees with respect to any Drax LOC Collateral held directly by the Collateral Agent) shall be paid by the Borrower from time to time upon demand. Upon an Actionable Default, the Collateral Agent shall be entitled to apply (and, at the request of the Drax LOC Fronting Bank but subject to applicable law, shall apply) the Drax LOC Collateral or the proceeds thereof to payment of any such expenses, liabilities and fees. After the termination of the Drax LOC Commitments of the Drax LOC Banks, the termination of the Drax Letter of Credit, and the repayment of all outstanding Drax Loans and all other Reimbursement Obligations in respect of the Drax Letter of Credit, the Collateral Agent shall transfer the remaining Drax LOC Collateral or the proceeds thereof (the "Excess Drax LOC Collateral") to the Collateral Account. Notwithstanding any other term or provision of this Agreement, and for the avoidance of doubt, the Drax LOC Collateral shall be paid first to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank in satisfaction of Drax LOC Direct Exposures and no Drax LOC Collateral shall be released or disbursed to any party other than the Drax LOC Fronting Bank until the satisfaction of all Drax LOC Liabilities and the termination of the Drax LOC Commitments and the Drax Letter of Credit. Section 2.20 Extension of Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date. (a) Upon the request of the Borrower and the consent of the Drax Letter of Credit beneficiary, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank shall (i) if the Termination Date at the time of such request is July 15, 2005, extend the Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date to July 15, 2005, and the "Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date" shall mean July 15, 2005 and (ii) if the Termination Date at the time of such request is December 12, 2005, extend the Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date to December 12, 2005, and the "Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date" shall mean December 12, 2005. (b) If the Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date is extended to July 15, 2005 pursuant to clause (a)(i) above, upon the request of the Borrower and the consent of the Drax Letter of Credit beneficiary, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank shall extend the Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date to December 12, 2005 and the "Drax Letter of Credit Termination Date" shall mean December 12, 2005 provided that (i) the "Termination Date" shall mean December 12, 2005 at such time and (ii) the Agent has certified to the Drax LOC Fronting Bank prior to the
64 July 15, 2005 that the 4.50% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures have been refinanced to mature on a date after December 12, 2005. ARTICLE III CONDITIONS Section 3.01 Closing. The closing hereunder shall occur when all the following conditions have been satisfied: (a) The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees of the Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Arranger Parties and the Banks and all accrued expenses of the Agent and the Collateral Agent (including, without limitation, all fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent payable pursuant to Section 10.03); (b) The Agent shall have received, if requested, duly executed Notes of the Borrower for the account of each Bank that has so requested, dated on or before the Closing Date complying with the provisions of Section 2.04; (c) The Agent shall have received (i) an opinion of the General Counsel, International of the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, (ii) an opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, special counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-2 hereto, (iii) opinions of special counsel for certain Subsidiaries of the Borrower in each of the jurisdictions in which the Required Banks may reasonably request, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-3 hereto, (iv) an opinion of Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell, Delaware counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-4 hereto, (v) an opinion of Maples and Calder, Cayman Islands counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-5 hereto, and (vi) an opinion of Conyers Dill & Pearman, British Virgin Islands counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-6 hereto, each dated the Closing Date (except for the opinions to be delivered pursuant to clause (iii) above which shall be dated on or about the Closing Date) and covering such additional matters relating to the transactions contemplated hereby as the Required Banks may reasonably request; (d) The Agent shall have received an opinion of Shearman & Sterling, special counsel for the Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-7 hereto, dated the Closing Date and covering such additional matters relating to the transactions contemplated hereby as the Required Banks may reasonably request; (e) The Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that all the shares of common stock of the Borrower pledged to secure the obligations of AES EDC under the Existing AES EDC SELLS Facility have been released; (f) The Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it of the Completion of the Exchange Note Offering;
65 (g) The Agent shall have received evidence, satisfactory to it, in the form of pro forma calculations, that the making of Borrowings (including the continuation of certain Loans pursuant to Section 2.01) and the issuance (or deemed issuance) of, and Revolving L/C Drawings and Drax L/C Drawings under, the Revolving Letters of Credit and the Drax Letter of Credit, respectively, under this Agreement are permitted under the terms of the Debt of the Borrower outstanding on the Closing Date; (h) The Agent shall have received a Security Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit C-1 hereto (the "Security Agreement"), and a Collateral Trust Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit C-2 hereto (the "Collateral Trust Agreement") duly executed by the Borrower, together with: (A) Certificates representing the Pledged Stock (as defined in the Security Agreement) accompanied by undated stock powers executed in blank and instruments evidencing the Pledged Debt (as defined in the Security Agreement), if any, endorsed in blank or accompanied by undated bond powers executed in blank; (B) Copies of UCC-1 financing statements in proper form for filing under the Uniform Commercial Code of all jurisdictions that the Agent may deem necessary or desirable in order to perfect the first priority liens and security interests created under the Security Agreement, covering the Collateral (as defined in the Security Agreement) described in the Security Agreement; (C) Completed requests for information, dated on or before the Closing Date, listing effective financing statements filed in the jurisdictions referred to in clause (B) above that name the Borrower as debtor, together with copies of such other financing statements; (D) To the extent required by the Security Agreement, the Account Control Agreements and the Securities Account Control Agreements referred to in the Security Agreement, duly executed by each of the parties thereto for the Deposit Accounts listed on Schedule V to the Security Agreement and the Securities Accounts listed on Schedule VI to the Security Agreement; (E) Evidence of the completion of all other recordings and filings of or with respect to the Security Agreement that the Agent may deem necessary or desirable in or to perfect the Liens created thereby; and (F) Evidence that all other action that the Agent may deem necessary or desirable in order to perfect the first priority liens and security interests created under the Security Agreement has been taken (including, without limitation, the consent agreements); (i) The Agent shall have received a Pledge Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit C-3 hereto (the "Tranche C Pledge Agreement"), duly executed by AES EDC, together with:
66 (A) Certificates representing the EDC Pledged Stock (as defined in the Tranche C Pledge Agreement) accompanied by undated stock powers executed in blank; and (B) Evidence of the completion of all other recordings and filings of or with respect to the Tranche C Pledge Agreement that the Agent may deem necessary or desirable in or to perfect the Liens created thereby; and (C) Evidence that all other action that the Agent may deem necessary or desirable in order to perfect the first priority liens and security interests created under the Tranche C Pledge Agreement has been taken. (j) The Agent shall have received a Pledge Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit C-4 hereto (the "BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement"), duly executed by AES BVI II, together with: (A) Certificates representing the BVI Pledged Stock (as defined in the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement) accompanied by undated stock powers executed in blank; and (B) Evidence of the completion of all other recordings and filings of or with respect to the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement that the Agent may deem necessary or desirable in or to perfect and protect the Liens created thereby, including: (i) deposit with the Collateral Trustees all certificates and other documents of title relating to the Charged Shares (as defined in the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement), from time to time, (ii) deliver to the Collateral Trustees: (A) original share certificates in respect of the Charged Shares, (B) blank, signed and undated transfer in respect of the Charged Shares, and (C) shareholder proxy in favor of the Collateral Trustees; and (D) Evidence that all other action that the Agent may deem necessary or desirable in order to perfect and protect the first priority liens and security interests created under the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement has been taken. (k) The Agent shall have received copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors (or, in the case of any limited liability companies, Board of Representatives or the equivalent) of each Loan Party authorizing the execution, delivery and performance
67 by such Loan Party of the Financing Documents to which it is a party, certified by a duly authorized officer of such Loan Party (which certificate shall state that such resolutions are in full force and effect on the Closing Date); (l) The Agent shall have received certified copies of all approvals, authorizations or consents of, or notices to or registrations with, any governmental body or agency required for each Loan Party, if necessary, to enter into the Financing Documents to which it is a party; (m) The Agent shall have received a certificate of a duly authorized officer of each Loan Party certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Loan Party authorized to sign the Financing Documents to which it is a party and the other documents to be delivered by such Loan Party hereunder; (n) The Agent shall have received a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower dated the Closing Date, to the effect that: (i) the representations and warranties contained in Article 4 hereof are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of such date; and (ii) no Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the issuance of the Revolving Letters of Credit requested by the Borrower to be issued on such date (including, without limitation, the deemed issuance of the Revolving Letters of Credit pursuant to the second sentence of Section 2.03(a) and the deemed issuance of the Drax Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2.18(a)) and the Borrowings (including, without limitation, the continuation of certain Loans pursuant to Section 2.01) requested by the Borrower to be made on such date; (o) The Agent shall have received a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower to the effect that the execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of the Financing Documents to which it is a party are within such Loan Party's corporate or other organizational powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official (other than the filing of UCC-1 financing statements and other filings required to perfect security interests) and do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of the certificate of incorporation (or certificate of formation, as applicable) or by-laws (or other organizational documents, as applicable) of such Loan Party or of any agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or of AES BVI II or of any Material AES Entity or of any Pledged Subsidiary (except for Liens created by the Financing Documents) provided that any foreclosure or other exercise of remedies by the Collateral Trustees or the Collateral Agent will require additional approvals and consents that have not been obtained from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual parties of one or more Subsidiaries and failure to obtain such approval or consent could result in a default, or a breach of agreement or other legal obligations of such Subsidiaries;
68 (p) The Agent shall have received all documents it may reasonably request relating to the existence of the Loan Parties, the corporate or other organizational authority for and the validity of this Agreement and the other Financing Documents, and any other matters relevant hereto, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent; and (q) The Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that the Banc of America Secured Option has been entered into by the Borrower and Banc of America Securities LLC. (r) The Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that the Borrower's limited partnership interest in Global Power Holdings, C.V., a Dutch partnership, has been transferred to GPH Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. The Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Banks of the Closing Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding on all parties hereto. Section 3.02 Extension of Credit. The obligation of each Bank to make a Loan on the occasion of each Borrowing (including the continuation of certain Loans pursuant to Section 2.01) and the obligation of a Revolving Fronting Bank to issue a Revolving Letter of Credit on the occasion of each request therefor by the Borrower shall in each case be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions: (a) receipt by the Agent of a Notice of Borrowing (except in the case of the continuation of certain Loans pursuant to Section 2.01 or the deemed issuance of Revolving Letters of Credit pursuant to the second sentence of Section 2.03(a) or the deemed issuance of the Drax Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2.18(a)) or a Notice of Issuance as required by Section 2.02 or 2.03, as the case may be; (b) the fact that, immediately after such Extension of Credit, after giving effect to all direct and indirect applications of the proceeds of such Extension of Credit made substantially simultaneously with the extension thereof, the aggregate Total Outstandings of any Revolving Credit Loan Bank will not exceed its Revolving Credit Loan Commitment; (c) the fact that the making of the Borrowings, the continuation of certain Loans and the issuance of, and the Revolving L/C Drawings and the Drax L/C Drawings under, the Revolving Letters of Credit and the Drax Letter of Credit, respectively, under this Agreement are permitted under the terms of the Debt of the Borrower outstanding as of the date of the making of such Loan or the issuance of, and the Revolving L/C Drawings and the Drax L/C Drawings under such Revolving Letter of Credit or the Drax Letter of Credit, as applicable; (d) the fact that, immediately before and after such Extension of Credit, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
69 (e) the fact that the representations and warranties of the Obligors contained in the Financing Documents (except (i) in the case of a Refunding Borrowing, the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.05(b) and 4.06 as to any matter which has heretofore been disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank Parties and (ii) in the case of the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.16 which shall be true on and as of the date hereof) shall be true on and as of the date of such Extension of Credit. Each Extension of Credit hereunder shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date of such Extension of Credit as to the facts specified in clauses (b) through (e) of this Section. ARTICLE IV REPRESENTATIONS The Borrower represents and warrants that: Section 4.01 Corporate Existence and Power. Each Loan Party is a corporation (or limited liability company, as applicable) duly incorporated (or formed, as applicable), validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation (or formation) and has all corporate or other organizational powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted. Section 4.02 Corporate and Governmental Authorization and Filings; No Contravention. (a) The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of the Financing Documents to which it is a party are within such Loan Party's corporate or other organizational powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official (other than the filing of UCC-1 financing statements and other filings required to perfect security interests) and do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of the certificate of incorporation (or certificate of formation, as applicable) or by-laws (or other organizational documents, as applicable) of such Loan Party or of any agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower, AES BVI II or of any Material AES Entity or of any Pledged Subsidiary (except for Liens created by the Financing Documents). (b) Upon (i) the filing of UCC-1 financing statements in the form attached to the Security Agreement and the Tranche C Pledge Agreement with the offices of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, (ii) the entry by AES BVI II of the particulars of the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement in its register of mortgages and charges and the submission by AES BVI II for registration a copy of its completed register of mortgages and charges to the Registrar of Companies in
70 the British Virgin Islands and (iii) certain filings required by the Collateral Documents to be made, all filings and other actions necessary to perfect the security interest granted by each Loan Party in the Collateral created under the Collateral Documents will have been duly made or taken and are in full force and effect, and (w) the Security Agreement creates in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders a valid and, together with such filings and other actions, perfected first priority security interest in the Security Agreement Collateral (subject to no Liens other than Liens permitted by the Financing Documents), securing the payment of the Secured Obligations, and (x) the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement creates in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders a valid and, together with such other actions, perfected first priority security interests in the BVI Collateral (subject to no Liens other than Liens permitted by the Financing Documents), securing the payment of the Secured Obligations, (y) the Collateral Trust Agreement creates in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders, a valid and, together with such filings and other actions, perfected first priority security interest in the Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral, and (z) the Tranche C Pledge Agreement creates in favor of the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Tranche C Secured Parties a valid and, together with such filings and other actions, perfected first priority security interests in the Tranche C Collateral (subject to no Liens other than Liens permitted by the Financing Documents), securing the payment of the Tranche C Secured Obligations, and in each case all filings and other actions necessary to perfect such security interests have been duly taken; provided that any foreclosure or other exercise of remedies by the Collateral Trustees or the Collateral Agent will require additional approvals and consents that have not been obtained from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of one or more Subsidiaries and failure to obtain such approval or consent could result in a default, or a breach of agreement or other legal obligations of such Subsidiaries. The Borrower is the legal and beneficial owner of the Security Agreement Collateral and the Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral, AES BVI II is the legal and beneficial owner of the BVI Collateral and AES EDC is the legal and beneficial owner of the Tranche C Collateral, in each case free and clear of any Lien, except for Liens permitted by the Financing Documents. Section 4.03 Compliance with Laws. The Borrower is and each of its Subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and requirements of governmental authorities (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws and ERISA and the rules and regulations thereunder) except for any non-compliance that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 4.04 Binding Effect. This Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of each Obligor and each other Financing Document, when executed and delivered in accordance with this Agreement, will constitute a valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party that is a party thereto, in each case enforceable in accordance with its terms.
71 Section 4.05 Financial Information. (a) The consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and the related consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the fiscal year then ended, reported on by Deloitte & Touche and set forth in the Form 10-K, a copy of which has been delivered to each of the Bank Parties, fairly present, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, the consolidated financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for such fiscal year. (b) Except for Disclosed Matters, since December 31, 2001 there has been no material adverse change in the business, financial position, results of operations or prospects of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, considered as a whole. Section 4.06 Litigation. Except for Disclosed Matters, there is no action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding pending against, or to the knowledge of the Borrower threatened against or affecting, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official in which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse decision which could have a Material Adverse Effect or which in any manner draws into question the legality, validity or enforceability of any Financing Document, and there shall have been no change in the status of, or in the financial effect on the Borrower or its Subsidiaries from the actions, suits, investigations, litigations or proceedings set forth in the Disclosed Matters that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 4.07 Compliance with ERISA. Each member of the ERISA Group has fulfilled its obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code with respect to each Plan and is in compliance in all material respects with the currently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code with respect to each Plan. No member of the ERISA Group has (a) sought a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code in respect of any Plan; (b) failed to make any contribution or payment to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or in respect of any Benefit Arrangement, or made any amendment to any Plan or Benefit Arrangement, which has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other security under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code or (c) incurred any liability in excess of $100,000 under Title IV of ERISA other than a liability to the PBGC for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA. Section 4.08 Environmental Matters. (a) In the ordinary course of its business, each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries conducts an ongoing review of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated liabilities and costs (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently or previously owned, any capital or operating expenditures required for investigation, to achieve or maintain
72 compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by Environmental Laws or as a condition of any license, permit or contract, any related constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat, any costs or liabilities in connection with off-site disposal of wastes or Hazardous Substances by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Borrower has reasonably concluded that such associated liabilities and costs, including the costs of compliance with Environmental Laws, are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect. (b) There are no facts, circumstances or conditions that are reasonably likely to result in liabilities arising under Environmental Laws that could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial conditions, results of operations or prospects of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, considered as a whole. Section 4.09 Taxes. United States Federal income tax returns of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and any other material tax returns filed by them have been examined and closed (other than for the limited purposes of net operating loss carry-forwards) through the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, there are no ongoing or pending tax audits or examinations, and no deficiencies or other claims for unpaid taxes are proposed in respect of any taxes due from the Borrower, its Subsidiaries or any Material AES Entity that could have a Material Adverse Effect. The Borrower, its Subsidiaries and all Material AES Entities have filed all United States Federal income tax returns and the Borrower, its Subsidiaries and all Material AES Entities have filed all other material tax returns which are required to be filed by them, all such United States Federal income tax returns and all such other material returns are true, correct and complete in all material respects and all taxes due as indicated on such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any Material AES Entity have been paid, other than any such taxes that are being diligently contested in good faith through appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with generally accepted accounting principals. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Borrower, its Subsidiaries and all Material AES Entities in respect of taxes or other governmental charges are, in the opinion of the Borrower, adequate. Section 4.10 Material AES Entities. Each Material AES Entity is a corporation (or limited liability company, as applicable) duly incorporated (or formed, as applicable), validly existing and (other than any Material AES Entity that is not incorporated under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof) in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation (or jurisdiction of formation, as applicable). Each Material AES Entity has all corporate or other organizational powers and all material governmental licenses, authorization, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as proposed to be conducted and has all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to have been obtained prior to the date hereof and which are material to the operation of its business as proposed to be conducted, except to the extent that the failure to obtain any such license, authorization, consent or approval,
73 individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 4.11 Not an Investment Company. None of the Obligors is an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Section 4.12 Public Utility Holding Company Act. Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to regulation as a "holding company" or a "subsidiary company" of a holding company or an "affiliate" of a subsidiary or holding company or a "public utility company" under Section 2(a) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended ("PUHCA"), except that the Borrower and certain of its Subsidiaries are exempt holding companies under Section 3(a) of PUHCA by order of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Section 4.13 Full Disclosure. All information heretofore furnished by the Borrower to the Agent or any Bank Party for purposes of or in connection with any Financing Document or any transaction contemplated hereby or thereby is, and all such information hereafter furnished by the Borrower to the Agent or any Bank Party will be, true and accurate in all material respects on the date as of which such information is stated or certified in the light of the circumstances under which such information was provided (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished, when taken together as a whole and with the Disclosed Matters); provided that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based on assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time, it being recognized by the Bank Parties that such projections as to future events are not to be viewed as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by any such projections may differ from the projected results. The Borrower has disclosed to the Bank Parties, in the Disclosed Matters or otherwise in writing, any and all facts specific to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and known as of the date hereof to a responsible officer of the Borrower that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, which materially and adversely affect or may affect (to the extent any Borrower can now reasonably foresee), the business, operations or financial condition of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or the ability of any Obligor to perform its obligations under the Financing Documents. Section 4.14 Collateral Documents and Collateral. (a) (i) The execution, delivery, recordation, filing or performance by the Borrower, AES BVI II and AES EDC of the Collateral Documents; (ii) the grant by the Borrower, AES BVI II and AES EDC of the Liens granted by each of them pursuant to the Collateral Documents; (iii) the perfection or maintenance of the Liens created under the Collateral Documents (including the first priority nature thereof) and (iv) the exercise by the Collateral Trustees or the Collateral Agent, as the case may be, of its remedies in respect of the Collateral pursuant to the Collateral Documents, will not require any consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or any notice to or filing with, any court, regulatory body,
74 administrative agency or other governmental body (other than such filings required in order to perfect any security interest granted by the Collateral Documents and other than any consent, approval, authorization, order, notice or filing the failure of which to make or obtain could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect), and will not conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the charter or by-laws of the Borrower, AES BVI II, AES EDC or any of the other Pledged Subsidiaries or any agreement, indenture or other instrument to which the Borrower, AES BVI II, AES EDC or any of the other Pledged Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Borrower, AES BVI II, AES EDC or any of the other Pledged Subsidiaries or the Borrower's, AES BVI II's or AES EDC's or the other Pledged Subsidiaries' respective property is bound, or violate or conflict with any laws, administrative regulations or rulings or court decrees applicable to the Borrower, AES BVI II, AES EDC, any of the other Pledged Subsidiaries or the Borrower's, AES BVI II's or the other Pledged Subsidiaries' respective property except for any violation, breach, conflict or default that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and except that in each of the foregoing cases any foreclosure or other exercise of remedies by the Collateral Trustees or the Collateral Agent will require additional approvals and consents that have not been obtained from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of, one or more Subsidiaries and failure to obtain such approval or consent could result in a default under, or a breach of, agreements or other legal obligations of such Subsidiaries. (b) Each of the representations and warranties of the Borrower, AES BVI II and AES EDC contained in the Collateral Documents is true and correct. (c) Set forth on Schedule I hereto is a complete and accurate list of all Pledged Subsidiaries, showing as of the date hereof (as to each such Pledged Subsidiary) its legal name, its jurisdiction of incorporation, the type and number of shares of each class of its Equity Interests authorized, and the type and number outstanding, on the date hereof and the percentage of each such class of its Equity Interests owned (directly or indirectly) by the Borrower and the certificate number corresponding to each such Equity Interest. All of the outstanding Equity Interests to be pledged to the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders pursuant to the Security Agreement and the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement in each Pledged Subsidiary have been validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Borrower or AES BVI II, as applicable, free and clear of all Liens, except those created under the Financing Documents. (d) Set forth on Schedule II hereto is a complete and accurate list of all assigned agreements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (the "Assigned Agreements"), showing as of the date hereof the parties, subject matter and term thereof. Each such Assigned Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all parties thereto, has not been amended or otherwise modified, is in full force and effect and is valid and binding upon and enforceable against all parties thereto, are in full force and effect, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by equitable principles of general applicability and there exists no default under any Assigned Agreement by any party thereto.
75 Section 4.15 Existing Revolving Letters of Credit. Appendix V hereto identifies each Existing Revolving Letter of Credit outstanding as of the date hereof and as of the Effective Date. Section 4.16 Solvency. Each of AES BVI II, AES EDC, AES Oklahoma, AES Hawaii and AES Warrior Run is, individually, and together with its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, Solvent as of the date hereof. Section 4.17 Pledged Subsidiaries. Other than the Non-Pledged Subsidiaries, the Pledged Subsidiaries listed on Schedule I hereto most recently delivered to the Bank Parties in accordance with Section 5.01(l), are, as of the date set forth on such Schedule, all of the direct Subsidiaries of the Borrower and all of the direct Subsidiaries of AES BVI II. Section 4.18 Qualified Holding Companies Debt. None of the Qualified Holding Companies is an obligor or a contingent obligor on any of the Debt permitted by Section 5.07(b)(iii) or a contingent obligor on any of the Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(ii), other than Debt permitted by the definition of "Qualified Holding Company". Section 4.19 Banks Parties. Each of the lenders party to the Existing Bank Credit Agreements immediately prior to the Closing Date is a Bank Party party to this Agreement as of the Closing Date. ARTICLE V COVENANTS The Borrower agrees that, so long as any Loan or any other Obligation of any Loan Party under any Financing Document shall remain unpaid or any Revolving Credit Loan Bank has any Revolving Credit Loan Commitment hereunder or any amount payable under any Note remains unpaid or any Revolving Letter of Credit or the Drax Letter of Credit or any Reimbursement Obligation remains outstanding: Section 5.01 Information. The Borrower will deliver to each of the Bank Parties (it being understood that delivery to the Agent and the posting by the Agent of each of the following items on an electronic website shall constitute delivery to each of the Bank Parties, and the Agent hereby agrees to post on an electronic website or otherwise distribute to the Bank Parties any such item delivered by the Borrower to the Agent):
76 (a) as soon as available and in any event within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated and consolidating balance sheet of each Obligor as of the end of such fiscal year, an unconsolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of the end of such fiscal year, the related consolidated, consolidating and unconsolidated (as applicable) statements of operations for such fiscal year and the related consolidated and unconsolidated statements of cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, said consolidated financial statements to be reported on, in a manner acceptable to the Securities and Exchange Commission, by Deloitte & Touche or other independent public accountants of nationally recognized standing and such consolidating and unconsolidated financial statements to be certified as to fairness of presentation, generally accepted accounting principles (other than failure to consolidate) and consistency by the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower; (b) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of each Obligor as of the end of such quarter and an unconsolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of the end of such fiscal quarter and the related consolidated and unconsolidated statements of operations for such quarter and for the portion of such Obligor's fiscal year ended at the end of such quarter and the related consolidated and unconsolidated statements of cash flows for the portion of such Obligor's fiscal year ended at the end of such quarter, setting forth in the case of such consolidated statements of operations and cash flows, in comparative form the figures for the corresponding quarter and the corresponding portion of such Obligor's previous fiscal year, all certified (subject to normal year-end adjustments) as to fairness of presentation, generally accepted accounting principles and consistency by the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower; (c) (1) as soon as available and in any event no later than the date on which financial statements are required to be delivered pursuant to clause (a) and (b) above, forecasts prepared by management of the Borrower, in form satisfactory to the Agent, of cash flow statements on a monthly basis for the fiscal year following such fiscal year and on an annual basis for each fiscal year thereafter until the Termination Date and (2) as soon as available and in any event no later than the date financial statements are required to be delivered pursuant to clause (a) and (b) above, a statement of the monthly cash flows to the Borrower of each Subsidiary of the Borrower for each of the twelve months ending prior to the date of such financial statements; (d) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above, a certificate of the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower (i) setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations required to establish whether the Borrower was in compliance with the requirements of Sections 5.07, 5.09, 5.11, 5.12, 5.13, 5.14 and 5.16 on the date of such financial statements; (ii) stating to the knowledge of the Borrower whether any Default exists on the date of such certificate and, if any Default then exists, setting forth the details thereof and the action which the Borrower is taking or
77 proposes to take with respect thereto and (iii) accompanied by a schedule setting forth in reasonable detail a description, including, where applicable, the expected and maximum dollar amounts thereof, of all material contingent liabilities not disclosed in such financial statements; (e) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in clause (a) above, a statement of the firm of independent public accountants which reported on such statements (i) whether anything has come to their attention as a result of their audit (which was not directed primarily toward obtaining knowledge of noncompliance) to cause them to believe that the Borrower has failed to comply with the terms, covenants, provisions or conditions as they relate to accounting of financial matters addressed in Sections 5.07 to 5.18, inclusive, and (ii) confirming the calculations set forth in the officer's certificate delivered simultaneously therewith pursuant to clause (d) above; (f) within five days after any officer of the Borrower obtains knowledge of any Default, if such Default is then continuing, a certificate of the chief executive officer, president, executive vice-president or chief financial officer of the Borrower setting forth the details thereof and the action which the Borrower is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto; (g) promptly upon the mailing thereof to the shareholders of the Borrower generally, copies of all financial statements, reports and proxy statements so mailed; (h) promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all registration statements (other than the exhibits thereto and any registration statements on Form S-8 or its equivalent) and reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K (or their equivalents) which the Borrower shall have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; (i) if and when any member of the ERISA Group (i) gives or is required to give notice to the PBGC of any "reportable event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to any Plan which might constitute grounds for a termination of such Plan under Title IV of ERISA, or knows that the plan administrator of any Plan has given or is required to give notice of any such reportable event, a copy of the notice of such reportable event given or required to be given to the PBGC; (ii) receives notice of complete or partial withdrawal liability under Title IV of ERISA or notice that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization, is insolvent or has been terminated, a copy of such notice; (iii) receives notice from the PBGC under Title IV of ERISA of an intent to terminate, impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or appoint a trustee to administer any Plan, a copy of such notice; (iv) applies for a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code, a copy of such application; (v) gives notice of intent to terminate any Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, a copy of such notice and other information filed with the PBGC; (vi) gives notice of withdrawal from any Plan pursuant to Section 4063 of ERISA, a copy of such notice; or (vii) fails to make any payment or contribution to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or in respect of any Benefit Arrangement or makes any amendment to any Plan or Benefit Arrangement which has resulted or could result in the
78 imposition of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other security, a certificate of the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower setting forth details as to such occurrence and the action, if any, which the Borrower or the applicable member of the ERISA Group is required or proposes to take; (j) not less than one day prior to the anticipated receipt by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower of Net Cash Proceeds from any Asset Sale, issuance of Debt or Equity Issuance, a certificate of the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower setting forth (i) a description of the transaction giving rise to such Net Cash Proceeds, (ii) the date or dates upon which such Net Cash Proceeds are anticipated to be received by the Borrower or such Subsidiary, (iii) the amount of Net Cash Proceeds anticipated to be received on such date or each of such dates (together with a schedule detailing the calculations necessary to determine the amount of Net Cash Proceeds), (iv) the amount of such Net Cash Proceeds that is anticipated to prepay the Loans and cash collateralize the Drax Letter of Credit Facility and (v) in the case of the receipt by a Subsidiary of any such Net Cash Proceeds, in the event that such Subsidiary is unable to transfer such Net Cash Proceeds to the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents, such certificate shall also set forth a reasonably detailed explanation of the circumstances preventing such Subsidiary from transferring such Net Cash Proceeds to the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents; (k) promptly after receipt by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower, a copy of each complaint, order, citation, notice or other written communication from any Person with respect to the existence or alleged existence of a material violation of any applicable Environmental Law or the incurrence of any liability, obligation, loss, damage, cost, expense, fine, penalty or sanction or the requirement to commence any remedial action resulting from or in connection with any air emission, water discharge, noise emission, Hazardous Substance or any other environmental, health or safety matter at, upon, under or within any of the properties now or previously owned, leased or operated by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any Material AES Entity, or due to the operations or activities of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower, any Material AES Entity or any other Person on or in connection with any such property or any part thereof, (l) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in clause (a) and (b) above, (1) a revised Schedule I showing as of the last day of such quarter all of the direct Subsidiaries of the Borrower and AES BVI II (other than Non-Pledged Subsidiaries) and (2) a revised Schedule IV showing as of the last day of such quarter all the Subsidiaries of the Borrower whose assets consist only of any of the Excluded Power Projects and direct or indirect Investments therein, and (m) promptly upon request thereof, deliver to the Agent and the Collateral Trustees (A) a list setting forth, for each Secured Agreement, (i) the aggregate principal amount outstanding thereunder, (ii) the accrued and unpaid interest thereunder, (iii) the
79 accrued and unpaid fees (if any) thereunder, (iv) the names of the Representatives (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement) and of the Secured Holders (to the extent known to the Borrower) thereunder, and all other unpaid amounts thereunder known to the Borrower, owing to each such Representative, for its own account and on behalf of such Secured Holders and (v) such other information regarding the Representatives, such Secured Holders and the Secured Agreements as the Agent may reasonably request and (B) the Payment Information (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement). (n) from time to time such additional information regarding the financial position or business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as the Agent, at the request of any Bank Party, may reasonably request. Section 5.02 Payment of Obligations. The Borrower will pay and discharge, and will cause each Subsidiary Guarantor (other than AES Southland and AES Warrior Run), IPALCO and Cilcorp (in each case, for so long as each Person is a Subsidiary of the Borrower) to pay and discharge, all its material obligations and liabilities, including, without limitation, tax liabilities, except where the same may be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, and will maintain, and will cause each Subsidiary of the Borrower to maintain, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, appropriate reserves for the accrual of any of the same. Section 5.03 Maintenance of Property; Insurance. (a) The Borrower will keep, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, all property useful and necessary in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted. (b) The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain (either in the name of the Borrower or in such Subsidiary's own name) with financially sound and responsible insurance companies, insurance of such types, in at least such amounts and against at least such risks (and with such risk retention) as are usually insured against in similar circumstances in the same general area by companies of established repute engaged in the same or a similar business; and will furnish to each Bank Party upon request information presented in reasonable detail as to the insurance so carried. Section 5.04 Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence. The Borrower (a) will continue, and will cause each of AES BVI II, the Material AES Entities and the Pledged Subsidiaries to continue, to engage in business of the same general type as now conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries; (b) will continue, and will cause AES BVI II, each Material AES Entity and each Pledged Subsidiary to continue, to operate their respective businesses on a basis substantially consistent with the policies and standards of the Borrower, AES BVI II or such Material AES Entity or such Pledged Subsidiary as in effect on the date hereof and (c) will preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect, and will cause AES BVI II, each Material AES Entity and each Pledged Subsidiary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect their respective corporate existence and their respective rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of business; provided that nothing in
80 this Section 5.04 shall prohibit (i) the merger of a Subsidiary into the Borrower or the merger or consolidation of a Subsidiary with or into another Person if the Person surviving such consolidation or merger is a Subsidiary and if, in each case, after giving effect thereto (x) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (y) neither the Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be liable for any Debt of such Subsidiary except to the extent it was liable for such Debt prior to giving effect to such merger and (z) the transaction is otherwise permitted by Section 5.11, (ii) any asset disposition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries permitted by Section 5.19 and (iii) the termination of the corporate existence of any Subsidiary (other than a Subsidiary Guarantor) if the Borrower in good faith determines that such termination is in the best interest of the Borrower and is not materially disadvantageous to the Bank Parties. Section 5.05 Compliance with Laws. The Borrower will comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and requirements of governmental authorities (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws and ERISA and the rules and regulations thereunder) (a) except for such non-compliance as would result solely in the payment of monetary compensation by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in an amount not to exceed $200,000 for each such non-compliance and (b) except where the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings (and the pendency of such proceedings themselves shall not have a material adverse effect on the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole). Section 5.06 Inspection of Property, Books and Records. The Borrower will keep, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries shall be made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities; and will permit, and will cause each Significant AES Entity to permit, representatives of any Bank Party at such Bank Party's expense to visit and inspect any of their respective properties, to examine and make abstracts from any of their respective books and records and to discuss their respective affairs, finances and accounts with their respective officers, employees and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as may reasonably be desired. Section 5.07 Limitation on Debt. The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary of the Borrower to, incur, assume, create or suffer to exist any Debt, except for: (a) in the case of the Borrower: (i) Debt under the Financing Documents; (ii) Debt existing on the date hereof and set forth on Schedule VI; (iii) Debt incurred to refinance, replace, refund or extend the Old Securities that were not tendered in the Exchange Note Offering (the "Remaining Old Securities"), provided that (v) the aggregate principal amount of such Debt
81 shall not be greater than the aggregate principal amount of the Remaining Old Securities, (w) the Borrower and AES BVI II (to the extent set forth in the Financing Documents) shall be the only direct or contingent obligors in respect of such Debt provided that if, after the date hereof any additional Subsidiaries of the Borrower Guarantee the Borrower's Obligations hereunder, such Subsidiaries may also be contingent obligors in respect of such Debt, (x) the final maturity of such Debt is on or later than December 12, 2005, (y) the material terms taken as a whole of any such Debt, and of any agreement entered into and of any instrument issued in connection therewith, are no less favorable in any material respect to the Obligors or the Bank Parties than the terms of any agreement or instrument governing the Senior Secured Exchange Notes and (z) the interest rate applicable to any such Debt does not exceed the then applicable market interest rate; (iv) Debt issued in exchange for any of the Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(ii) (the "Exchanged Debt"), provided that (v) the aggregate principal amount of such Debt on the date of such exchange shall not be greater than the aggregate principal amount of the Exchanged Debt, (w) the final maturity of such Debt shall in no event be prior to December 12, 2005, (x) such Debt shall not contain any Payment Restriction more restrictive than the Payment Restrictions contained in the Exchanged Debt, (y) the parties to whom such Debt is owed are the same as the parties to whom the Exchanged Debt was owed on the date of such exchange and (z) the annual interest payable in cash during any calendar year ending on or prior to December 31, 2005 in respect of such Debt shall not be greater than the interest payable in cash during such calendar year in respect of the Exchanged Debt; (v) Debt representing a refinancing, replacement or refunding of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(ii) whose final maturity date is prior to December 12, 2005; provided that: (A) (w) the aggregate principal amount of such Debt outstanding or available will not exceed the principal amount outstanding or available at the time of such refinancing, replacement or refunding (plus fees and expenses, including any premium and defeasance costs relating to such refinancing, replacement or refunding), (x) the final maturity of such Debt is later than December 12, 2005, (y) such Debt shall not contain any Payment Restriction more restrictive than the Payment Restrictions contained in the Debt being refinanced, replaced or refunded and (z) the interest rate applicable to any such refinancing, replacement or refunding Debt does not exceed the then applicable market interest rate; and (B) no obligor shall be liable for any such Debt except to the extent that it was liable for the Debt so refinanced, replaced or refunded. (vi) Debt owing by the Borrower to a Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower so long as such Debt is subordinated on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Agent to the Debt of the Borrower under the Financing Documents;
82 (vii) any Lien permitted by Section 5.10 that constitutes Debt not otherwise permitted by this Section; (viii) Letters of credit, surety bonds, Guarantees and performance bonds supporting obligations of Subsidiaries so long as, after giving effect to such letters of credit, surety bonds, Guarantees and performance bonds (and the Investments represented thereby), the Borrower would be in compliance with Section 5.16; (ix) the Sul Guarantee; (x) other Debt, in the aggregate, not to exceed at any one time outstanding $225,000,000 so long as (i) the final maturity of such Debt shall in no event be prior to December 12, 2005 and (ii) such Debt shall not have any scheduled amortization prior to December 12, 2005; provided that if the Debt permitted under this clause (x) is incurred to refinance, replace, refund or extend any Debt, such Debt may be incurred to only refinance, replace, refund or extend the Debt outstanding under the AES N.Y. Funding Credit Facility; provided, further that if the Debt permitted under this Section 5.07(a)(x) is not used for the purposes set forth in the immediately preceding proviso, and if the aggregate amount of cash and Temporary Cash Investments of the Borrower and the aggregate Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments is equal to or greater than $200,000,000 on the Business Day immediately preceding the incurrence of such Debt, only $75,000,000 of such other Debt shall be permitted by this Section 5.07(a)(x). (xi) Debt incurred to refinance, replace, refund or extend any or all of the Debt of the Borrower under the Financing Documents, provided that (u) the aggregate principal amount of such Debt shall not be greater than the aggregate principal amount of the Debt being refinanced, replaced, refunded or extended, (v) the Obligors shall be the only direct or contingent obligors in respect of such Debt solely to the extent such Obligor is liable in respect of the Debt being refinanced, replaced, refunded or extended, provided that if, after the date hereof any additional Subsidiaries of the Borrower Guarantee the Borrower's Obligations hereunder, such Subsidiaries may also be contingent obligors in respect of such Debt, (w) the final maturity of such Debt is later than December 12, 2005, (x) the material terms taken as a whole of such Debt, and of any agreement entered into and of any instrument issued in connection therewith, are no less favorable in any material respect to the Obligors or the Bank Parties than the terms hereof, (y) the interest rate applicable to such Debt does not exceed the then applicable market interest rate and (z) the Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence of such Debt shall be applied as set forth in Section 2.11(b)(iv); (xii) Debt incurred as a bridge financing for a proposed Asset Sale, provided that (x) the only direct or contingent obligor in respect of such Debt is the holder of the asset that is the subject of such Asset Sale, (y) the interest rate applicable to such Debt does not exceed the then applicable market interest rate
83 and (z) the Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence of such Debt shall be applied as set forth in Section 2.11(b); (xiii) Debt incurred to refinance, replace or refund any of the obligations arising in respect of the Existing Trust Preferred Securities, provided that (x) the only direct or contingent obligor in respect of such Debt is the Borrower, (y) the annual interest payable in cash during any calendar year ending on or prior to December 31, 2005 in respect of such Debt shall not be greater than the interest payable during such calendar year in respect of the Existing Trust Preferred Securities being refinanced, replaced or refunded and (z) the final maturity of such Debt shall be later than December 12, 2005; and (xiv) the Lake Worth Letter of Credit. (b) in the case of the Borrower's Subsidiaries: (i) Guarantees of Debt of the Borrower under the Financing Documents, Debt permitted by clause (a)(iii) above, the Senior Secured Exchange Notes and Debt permitted by clause (a)(xii) above (it being understood that if, after the date hereof, any Subsidiary (other than the Subsidiary Guarantors and any Subsidiary of the Subsidiary Guarantors) Guarantees the Debt of the Borrower under the Financing Documents, such Subsidiary may also Guarantee the Debt permitted by clause (a)(iii) above, the Senior Secured Exchange Notes and the Debt permitted by clause (a)(xii) above); (ii) Debt incurred by a Subsidiary: (x) to finance the on-going construction, operation, maintenance (including modifications and upgrades to comply with applicable laws and regulations) or working capital requirements (including letters of credit or guarantees to fund debt service reserve accounts or similar accounts or for the benefit of power purchase agreements or commodity hedging counterparties) of a Power Supply Business or other business owned, operated or managed (including on a joint basis with others), directly or indirectly, by the Borrower (an "AES Business"); and (y) that is not also the Debt of any other Subsidiary with an interest in any other AES Business (except for Debt incurred or assumed by Intermediate Holding Companies which, at the time such Debt was incurred or assumed, in the aggregate, contributed less than 50% of the Parent Operating Cash Flow for the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters); provided, however, that (A) the Subsidiaries listed on Schedule 5.07(b)(ii) hereto can incur Debt pursuant to this Section 5.07(b)(ii) in the amounts and for the purposes set forth on such Schedule and (B) each Subsidiary can incur Debt pursuant to this Section 5.07(b)(ii) in an aggregate amount up to 10% of the
84 aggregate amount of Debt of such Subsidiary outstanding on the Closing Date; provided, further that with respect to clause (A) in the immediately preceding proviso, to the extent that the Debt incurred pursuant to this Section 5.07(b)(ii) is not used for the purposes set forth on Schedule 5.07(b)(ii) for such Debt, unless such Debt is permitted by another provision hereunder, the portion of Net Cash Proceeds of such Debt not used for such purposes shall be received by the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents and such Net Cash Proceeds shall be applied to prepay the Debt hereunder pursuant to and in the amounts and order of priority set forth in Section 2.11(b); (iii) Debt existing on the date hereof; (iv) Debt incurred by a Subsidiary as a bridge financing for a proposed Asset Sale, provided that (x) the only direct or contingent obligor in respect of such Debt is the holder of the asset that is the subject of such Asset Sale, (y) the interest rate applicable to such Debt does not exceed the then applicable market interest rate and (z) the Net Cash Proceeds from the incurrence of such Debt shall be applied as set forth in Section 2.11(b); (v) Debt owing to the Borrower or a Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower; provided that Debt owed to the Borrower shall constitute Pledged Debt (to the extent such Debtor is required to pledge such Debt pursuant to the Collateral Documents) and delivered to the Collateral Trustees pursuant to the terms of the Security Agreement; provided further that except for Pledged Debt or Debt between Qualified Holding Companies whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents, Debt owing to a Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower that is a Pledged Subsidiary or a Subsidiary of a Pledged Subsidiary shall only be permitted if (x) (1) the obligor of such Debt is either a direct or indirect Subsidiary of such Consolidated Subsidiary or directly or indirectly owns such Consolidated Subsidiary, (2) the obligor of such Debt is a Domestic Subsidiary and such Consolidated Subsidiary is a Domestic Subsidiary or (3) the obligor of such Debt is a Foreign Subsidiary and such Consolidated Subsidiary is a Foreign Subsidiary, and (y) any such Debt is permitted under Section 5.16; (vi) Debt incurred by a Subsidiary, the Net Cash Proceeds of which are received by the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents and (x) in the case of Debt incurred by IPALCO, an amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds and (y) in the case of any other Subsidiary, an amount equal to the Banks' Ratable share of 75% of such Net Cash Proceeds are applied to prepay the Debt hereunder pursuant to and in the amount and order of priority set forth in Section 2.11(b); provided, however that (A) none of the Subsidiary Guarantors or Cilcorp or any of their respectively owned Subsidiaries can incur Debt pursuant to this Section 5.07(b)(vi);
85 (vii) Debt representing a refinancing, replacement or refunding of Debt permitted by clauses (b)(ii), (b)(iii), (b)(iv), (b)(vi), (b)(viii) and (b)(ix) above; provided that: (A) (w) the aggregate principal amount of such Debt outstanding or available will not exceed the principal amount outstanding or available at the time of such refinancing, replacement or refunding (plus fees and expenses, including any premium and defeasance costs) relating to such refinancing, replacement or refunding, (x) the final maturity of such Debt is later than the final maturity of the Debt being refinanced, replaced or refunded unless the holders of the Debt being refinanced, replaced or refunded can accelerate the final maturity date thereof, (y) the Payment Restrictions in such Debt (1) shall be no more restrictive than the Payment Restrictions contained in the Debt being refinanced, replaced or refunded or (2) in the opinion of the Borrower, are consistent with customary market terms for a financing of its nature and do not adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to meet its payment Obligations under the Financing Documents and (z) the interest rate applicable to any such refinancing, replacement, refunding or extending Debt does not exceed the then applicable market interest rate; (B) after giving effect to the issuance of such Debt, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing under Section 5.16(b); and (C) if any Debt being refinanced, replaced or refunded is subordinated to the Debt of any Subsidiary Guarantor, such Debt shall be subordinated at least to the same extent; and (viii) Debt incurred by a Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, so long as the Net Cash Proceeds of such Debt are received by the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents and (x) until the Tranche A Term Loan Facility is repaid in full and the Revolving Credit Loan Facility is repaid in full and the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments are permanently reduced to zero, an amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds and (y) at any time thereafter, an amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of 75% of such Net Cash Proceeds are applied to prepay the Debt hereunder pursuant to Section 2.11(b)(ii) and (vi). (ix) Debt incurred by the Tranche C Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, so long as the Net Cash Proceeds of such Debt are received by the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents and (x) until the Tranche C Term Loan Facility is repaid in full, an amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds and (y) at any time thereafter, an amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of 75% of such Net Cash Proceeds are applied to prepay the Debt hereunder pursuant to and in the amount and order of priority set forth in Section 2.11(b)(iii) and (vi).
86 (x) any Lien permitted by Section 5.10 that constitutes Debt not otherwise permitted by this Section 5.07. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing in this Section 5.07(b), in no event shall Qualified Holding Companies incur any Debt other than Debt permitted by the definition of "Qualified Holding Company." Section 5.08 Use of Proceeds. The proceeds of the Loans made (or deemed to be continued), the Revolving Letters of Credit issued (or deemed issued) under this Agreement will be used by the Borrower for working capital and other general corporate purposes. The proceeds of the Drax Letter of Credit deemed to be issued under this Agreement shall be used solely for the purposes described in Section 2.19(c)(iv). None of such proceeds will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental or ultimate, of buying or carrying any "margin stock" within the meaning of Regulation U. Section 5.09 Restricted Payments. (a) The Borrower will not declare or pay any dividends, purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise acquire for value any of its Equity Interests now or hereafter outstanding, return any capital to its stockholders as such, make any distribution of assets, Equity Interests, obligations or securities to its stockholders, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise acquire for value any Equity Interests in the Borrower, except (A) the Borrower may declare and pay cash dividends to the holders of the Existing Trust Preferred Securities and refinance, replace or refund any of the Obligations arising in respect of the Existing Trust Preferred Securities as provided in Section 5.07(a)(xiii) and (B) AES New York Funding, L.L.C. may acquire Equity Interests in the Borrower to the extent required under the AES N.Y. Funding Credit Facility. (b) Notwithstanding Section 5.09(a) above, so long as any Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Obligation remains outstanding, no Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor will, without the prior written consent of the Required Revolving Credit Loan Banks and the Required Tranche A Term Loan Banks, if, and for so long as, an Actionable Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (i) declare or make any dividend payment or other distribution of assets, properties, cash, rights, obligations or securities on account of any shares of any class of capital stock of such Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor (other than stock splits and dividends payable solely in equity securities of such Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor), or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for value (or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so), any shares of any class of capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor or any warrants, rights or options to acquire any such shares, now or hereafter outstanding or (ii) make any Investment in or otherwise advance any funds to the Borrower, or, except as may be required by the Shady Point Financing Documents, any Subsidiary of the Borrower; and (c) Notwithstanding Section 5.09(a) above, so long as any Tranche C Term Loan Obligation remains outstanding, Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor will not, without the
87 prior written consent of the Required Tranche C Term Loan Banks, if, and for so long as, an Actionable Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (i) declare or make any dividend payment or other distribution of assets, properties, cash, rights, obligations or securities on account of any shares of any class of capital stock of the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor (other than stock splits and dividends payable solely in equity securities of Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor), or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for value (or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so), any shares of any class of capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor or any warrants, rights or options to acquire any such shares, now or hereafter outstanding or (ii) make any Investment in or otherwise advance any funds to the Borrower. Section 5.10 Negative Pledge. Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary of the Borrower will create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except: (a) Liens created under the Financing Documents; (b) Liens existing on the date of this Agreement securing Debt outstanding on the date of this Agreement; (c) any Lien existing on any asset of any Person at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such event; (d) any Lien on any asset securing Debt incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost of acquiring such asset; provided that such Lien attaches to such asset concurrently with or within 90 days after the acquisition thereof; (e) any Lien on any asset of any Person existing at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with or into the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such event; provided that such Lien shall not attach to any asset held by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower immediately prior to such merger or consolidation; (f) any Lien existing on any asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such acquisition; (g) any Lien arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal or refunding of any Debt secured by any Lien permitted by any of the foregoing clauses or clause (m) or (n) of this Section; provided that such Debt is not increased and is not secured by any additional assets (other than, in the case of Debt permitted under Section 5.07(b)(vii), Liens on assets of any Subsidiary permitted under such Section 5.07(b)(vii) and Section 5.16(b) to be obligated on such Debt); (h) Liens arising in the ordinary course of its business which do not secure obligations in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000 and do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
88 (i) Liens in connection with worker's compensation, social security obligations, taxes, assessments, statutory obligations or other similar charges, good faith deposits in connection with tenders, contracts or leases to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or other deposits required to be made in the ordinary course of business and not in connection with borrowing money or obtaining advances or credit; provided in each case that the obligation or liability arises in the ordinary course of business and if overdue is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (j) inchoate materialmen's, mechanics', workmen's, repairmen's, employees', carriers', warehousemen's, or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries; (k) with respect to real property, easements, rights of way, reservations and other minor defects or irregularities in title which do not materially impair the use thereof for the purposes for which it is held by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries; (l) Liens securing any future interest or dividends payable in respect of any Debt permitted to be issued under Section 5.07 for one six month period with respect to such Debt on cash or Temporary Cash Investments which constituted a portion of the cash proceeds to the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower from the issuance of such Debt; (m) Liens on cash and Temporary Cash Investments securing Derivatives Obligations of the Subsidiaries permitted by Section 5.20(c); (n) Liens on cash and Temporary Cash Investments that secure contingent obligations to reimburse any bank or other Person for amounts paid under a letter of credit, Guarantees, surety or performance bond or similar instrument that supports obligations to make Investments in Subsidiaries permitted to be made under Section 5.16; (o) (i) Liens securing Debt of Subsidiaries (other than Subsidiary Guarantors) permitted by Section 5.07(b)(ii), (vi), (vii), (viii) or (ix), 5.07(b)(vii) or utility obligations or other customer, supplier or contractor obligations associated with AES Businesses that are limited to the assets and revenues of the related AES Businesses and the Capital Stock or other assets (including contract rights) of Subsidiaries of the Borrower having a direct or indirect interest in such AES Businesses; (p) Liens on the Creditor Group Collateral securing the Debt of the Borrower permitted by Section 5.07(a)(iii), (ix), (x), (xi) and (xiv); and (q) Liens securing Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(xii) or Section 5.07(b)(iv), provided that such Debt is secured solely by the asset that is the subject of the proposed Asset Sale related to such Debt. Section 5.11 Consolidations and Mergers. The Borrower will not merge into or consolidate with any Person or permit any Person to merge into it, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so, except that:
89 (i) any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge into or consolidate with any other Subsidiary, provided that, in the case of any such merger or consolidation, the Person formed by such merger or consolidation shall be a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower and any third-party consents or waivers necessary for such merger or consolidation shall have been obtained, provided further that, (A), in the case of any such merger or consolidation to which a Pledged Subsidiary is a party, the Person formed by such merger or consolidation shall be a "Pledged Subsidiary" and (B) in the case of any such merger or consolidation to which a Subsidiary Guarantor is a party, the Person formed by such merger or consolidation shall be a Subsidiary Guarantor; and (ii) in connection with any sale or other disposition permitted under Section 5.19 (other than clause (ii) thereof), any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge into or consolidate with any other Person or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it; and (iii) the Borrower may merge with another Person; provided, however, that in each case, such merger or consolidation is otherwise in compliance with this Agreement and immediately before and after giving effect thereto, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing and, in the case of any merger to which the Borrower is a party, the Borrower is the Person surviving such merger. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing in clauses (i) and (ii) of this Section 5.11, the Borrower will not permit any Subsidiary of the Borrower with any direct or indirect interest in (x) a Power Supply Business to consolidate or merge with, any other Person with a direct or indirect interest in any other Power Supply Business or any unrelated business or (y) any unrelated business to consolidate or merge with, any other Person with a direct or indirect interest in any Power Supply Business, subject to the proviso set forth in Section 5.16(b). Section 5.12 Collateral Coverage Ratio. The Collateral Coverage Ratio at any date shall not be less than 2.75:1.0 through and including June 30, 2003, and thereafter, shall not be less than 3.00:1.0. Section 5.13 Cash Flow Coverage. The Borrower will maintain at the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower, a Cash Flow Coverage Ratio of not less than the ratio set forth below for each period set forth below: --------------------------- -------------------------- Four Minimum Cash Flow Coverage Fiscal Quarters Ending Ratio --------------------------- -------------------------- December 31, 2002 1.50 March 31, 2003 1.20 June 30, 2003 1.10 September 30, 2003 1.00 December 31, 2003 1.00
90 March 31, 2004 1.10 June 30, 2004 1.20 September 30, 2004 1.25 December 31, 2004 1.30 March 31, 2005 1.30 June 30, 2005 1.35 September 30, 2005 1.40 Section 5.14 Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio. The Borrower will maintain at the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower, a Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio of not more than the ratio set forth below for each period set forth below: -------------------------- ------------------------- Four Maximum Recourse Debt to Fiscal Quarter Ending Cash Flow Ratio -------------------------- ------------------------- December 31, 2002 7.00 March 31, 2003 9.05 June 30, 2003 10.25 September 30, 2003 11.75 December 31, 2003 11.90 March 31, 2004 10.75 June 30, 2004 10.50 September 30, 2004 10.20 December 31, 2004 9.50 March 31, 2005 9.35 June 30, 2005 9.20 September 30, 2005 9.00 Section 5.15 Transaction with Affiliates. Except pursuant to agreements existing on the date hereof and listed on Schedule II attached hereto, the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary of the Borrower to, directly or indirectly, in any transaction involving aggregate consideration in excess of $1,000,000, pay any funds to or for the account of, make any investment (whether by acquisition of stock or indebtedness, by loan, advance, transfer of property, guarantee or other agreement to pay, purchase or service, directly or indirectly, any Debt, or otherwise) in, lease, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any assets, tangible or intangible, to, or participate in, or effect any transaction in connection with any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement with, any Affiliate; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not prohibit (a) the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower from making sales to or purchases from any Affiliate and, in connection therewith, extending credit or making payments, or from making payments for services rendered by any Affiliate, if such sales or purchases are made or such services are rendered in the ordinary course of business and on terms and conditions at least as favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as the terms and conditions which would apply in a similar transaction with a Person not an Affiliate; (b) the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
91 Borrower from making payments of principal, interest and premium on any Debt of the Borrower or such Subsidiary held by an Affiliate if the terms of such Debt are substantially as favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as the terms which could have been obtained at the time of the creation of such Debt from a lender which was not an Affiliate and (c) the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower from participating in, or effecting any transaction in connection with, any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement with any Affiliate if the Borrower or such Subsidiary participates in the ordinary course of its business and on a basis no less advantageous than the basis on which such Affiliate participates. The provisions of this Section 5.15 shall not apply to (x) transactions between the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and any officer, director or employee of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, that are approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower or any committee of the Board of Directors consisting of the Borrower's independent directors and (y) the payment of reasonable and customary regular fees to directors of the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower. Section 5.16 Investments in Other Persons. (a) The Borrower shall not make or hold, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or hold, any Investment in any Person, except: (i) (A) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in their Subsidiaries outstanding on the date hereof, (B) additional equity Investments in Obligors and (C) additional Investments in Obligors consisting of intercompany Debt provided that any Debt owing to the Borrower shall (x) constitute Pledged Debt and be delivered to the Collateral Trustees pursuant to the terms of the Security Agreement and (y) be subordinated in all respects to the Obligations of the Obligors under the Financing Documents; (ii) loans and advances to employees in the ordinary course of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as presently conducted in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $10,000,000 at any time outstanding; (iii) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in Temporary Cash Investments; (iv) Investments existing on the date hereof and Investments in Subsidiaries resulting from drawings under, or renewals or extensions of, letters of credit, surety bonds, Guarantees or performance bonds supporting obligations of Subsidiaries issued and outstanding on the Closing Date (including renewals and extensions thereof) and Investments in Subsidiaries to cash collateralize obligations supported by such letters of credit, bonds or Guarantees if they expire or are cancelled undrawn; (v) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in any non-cash proceeds received by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in connection with any transaction permitted by the provisions of Section 5.19;
92 (vi) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in AES New York Funding, L.L.C. to the extent necessary for AES New York Funding, L.L.C. to make required interest payments under the AES N.Y. Funding Credit Facility; (vii) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in AES New York Funding, L.L.C. made in connection with Debt incurred pursuant to Section 5.07(a)(x) to the extent necessary for AES New York Funding, L.L.C. to make required repayments under the AES N.Y. Funding Credit Facility or to prepay in full the Debt under the AES N.Y. Funding Credit Facility; (viii) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in any of their Debt in the form of any payments, redemption or repurchase of such Debt not prohibited by this Agreement; (ix) Investments by an Excluded Subsidiary in another Excluded Subsidiary or in another Person, the assets of which shall not consist of Debt or Equity Interests of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, other than Debt of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries with a fair market value (together with the fair market value of Debt of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary as non-cash proceeds in any transaction permitted by the provisions of Section 5.19) not in excess of $15,000,000 in the aggregate; (x) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in their Subsidiaries resulting from the creation, dissolution or reorganization of the holdings of any Subsidiary permitted by Section 5.16(b) that does not result in the net increase in the amount invested by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in their Subsidiaries and does not result in a Default; (xi) Investments received in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of, or settlement of delinquent accounts and disputes with, or as a result of a default by, customers or suppliers to, or co-investors in, an AES Business (including, without limitation, pursuant to the Borrower's existing settlement agreement with PSEG pursuant to which the Borrower will acquire the minority interests currently held by PSEG in certain AES Businesses located in Argentina in exchange for a $30,000,000 settlement payment, of which $15,000,000 has been paid prior to the date hereof); (xii) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries not otherwise permitted under this Section 5.16 in an aggregate amount not to exceed the Permitted Investment Basket; provided that, with respect to each Investment made pursuant to this clause (xii): (A) such Investment shall not be in respect of any Excluded Subsidiary; (B) such Investment shall be in property and assets which are part of, or in lines of business which are, substantially the same lines of business as one or more of the principal businesses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course;
93 (C) any determination of the amount of such Investment shall include all cash and noncash consideration (including, without limitation, the fair market value of all Equity Interests issued or transferred to the sellers thereof, all indemnities, earnouts and other contingent payment obligations to, and the aggregate amounts paid or to be paid under noncompete, consulting and other affiliated agreements with, the sellers thereof, all write-downs of property and assets and reserves for liabilities with respect thereto and all assumptions of debt, liabilities and other obligations in connection therewith) paid by or on behalf of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with such Investment; and (D) (1) immediately before and immediately after giving pro forma effect to any such purchase or other acquisition, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (2) immediately after giving effect to such purchase or other acquisition, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall be in pro forma compliance with all of the covenants set forth in Sections 5.12, 5.13 and 5.14, such compliance to be determined on the basis of the financial information most recently delivered to the Agent and the Bank Parties as though such Investment had been consummated as of the first day of the fiscal period covered thereby; (xiii) (A) Investments by any Subsidiary with funds or other property received by such Subsidiary from the Borrower or a Subsidiary as a result of an Investment otherwise permitted hereby and (B) Investments by any Subsidiary (other than a Qualified Holding Company) with funds or other property generated by its operations (including by way of financings permitted hereby) or by the operations (including by way of financings permitted hereby) of its Subsidiaries in any other Subsidiary which either is a direct or indirect Subsidiary of such investing Subsidiary or a direct or indirect parent company of such investing Subsidiary and the proceeds of such Investment shall be applied by the Subsidiary receiving such Investment solely for funding the operation, maintenance (including modifications and upgrades to comply with applicable laws and regulations), on-going construction or working capital requirements which are necessary for the operation of the business of such Subsidiary or for such Subsidiary to satisfy its contractual and legal obligations (it being understood that no Investments made pursuant to this clause (xiii) will be used for the expansion of any such business); (xiv) Investments by any Subsidiary of the Borrower consisting of loans made to any Person which directly or indirectly holds the Equity Interests of such Subsidiary; (xv) Investments by the Borrower or any Qualified Holding Company in the Subsidiaries listed on Schedule 5.16(xv) solely for purposes of funding development costs to the extent that such development costs are included in the calculation of Adjusted Parent Cash Flow but in no event greater than $35,000,000 in any calendar year; and (xvi) Investments of up to $31 million in AES Andres, B.V. ("Andres") made, directly or indirectly, with the proceeds of Debt incurred by Dominican Power Partners, LDC ("Los Mina") pursuant to Section 5.07(b)(ii) to be used by Andres to finance completion of natural gas facilities that will provide fuel to Los Mina when it converts to natural gas as a fuel supply.
94 (b) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing in clause (a) above, the Borrower will not permit any Subsidiary of the Borrower with any direct or indirect interest in (i) a Power Supply Business to make any Investment in, or consolidate or merge with, any other Person with a direct or indirect interest in any other Power Supply Business or any unrelated business or (ii) any unrelated business to make any Investment in, or to consolidate or merge with, any other Person with a direct or indirect interest in any Power Supply Business; provided that (x) Investments permitted by Section 5.16(a)(ii), (iii), (v), (viii), (ix), (x), (xi), (xiv) and [(xvi)] shall be permitted and (y) a Subsidiary of the Borrower (each, an "Intermediate Holding Company") may serve as a holding company for any or all of the Borrower's direct and indirect interests in a Power Supply Business or an unrelated business, so long as: (1) each such Intermediate Holding Company's direct and indirect interest in any Power Supply Business or unrelated business shall be limited to the ownership of Capital Stock or Debt obligations of a Person with a direct or indirect interest in such Power Supply Business or unrelated business; (2) no Lien shall exist upon any asset of any Intermediate Holding Company (other than Liens on the Capital Stock of, or loan to, the Borrower or a Subsidiary of an Intermediate Holding Company securing Debt of such Intermediate Holding Company or such Subsidiary and Liens securing Debt permitted by Sections 5.07(b)(i), (b)(ii), (b)(iii), (b)(iv), (b)(vi), (b)(vii), (b)(viii) and (b)(ix)); and (3) no Intermediate Holding Company shall incur, assume, create or suffer to exist any Debt (including any Guarantee of Debt) other than Debt owing to the Borrower, any Qualified Holding Company or any Subsidiary of such Intermediate Holding Company and Debt permitted by Sections 5.07(b)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (vi), (vii), (viii) or (ix). Section 5.17 No Prepayment of Debt. Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary shall, directly or indirectly, prepay, redeem, purchase, defease or otherwise satisfy prior to the scheduled maturity thereof in any manner, or make any payment in violation of any subordination terms of, any Debt, except (i) the prepayment of the Loans in accordance with this Agreement, the required payments of the Senior Secured Exchange Notes in accordance with the Senior Secured Exchange Note Indenture and any required prepayments of Debt permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 5.07(a)(iii) or 5.07(a)(xi); (ii) the refinancing or acquisition of Debt to the extent permitted hereunder; (iii) regularly scheduled or required repayments or redemptions of Debt; (iv) the exchange of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(a)(iv); (v) the exchange of Debt for an Equity Issuance by the Borrower pursuant to a Debt Exchange Equity Issuance; (vi) the repayment or prepayment of Debt permitted by Section 5.07(b)(v); (vii) regularly scheduled or required repayments or redemptions of the Existing Trust Preferred Securities; (viii) any repayment of Debt with the Equity Basket at such time; (ix) the prepayment, redemption, purchase, defeasance or other satisfaction prior to the scheduled maturity thereof by any Excluded Subsidiary of its outstanding Debt; (x) the refinancing, replacement or refunding of the Existing Trust Preferred Securities permitted by Section 5.07(a)(xiii) and (xi) prepayments by a Subsidiary of its outstanding Debt that reduce or eliminate Payment Restrictions applicable to such Subsidiary or make it more
95 likely that such Subsidiary will be able to transfer amounts to the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents. Section 5.18 Upstreaming of Net Cash Proceeds by Subsidiaries. The Borrower shall cause any of its Subsidiaries who have received Net Cash Proceeds from (i) any Asset Sale, (ii) the incurrence or sale of any Debt permitted by Section 5.07(b)(vii) or (iii) any Equity Issuance to transfer such Net Cash Proceeds to the Borrower; provided that such transfer shall not be required to be made if such transfer would violate any applicable contracts or would violate applicable law or if applicable law would require minority shareholder approval (it being understood that the Borrower shall use reasonable efforts to obtain such minority shareholder approval), a valuation or a discretionary order or would, in the Borrower's good faith determination or the good faith determination of a majority of the board of directors of such Subsidiary, involve a reasonable likelihood of there being a breach of fiduciary duties by the directors of such Subsidiary. In connection with managing transfers of Net Cash Proceeds pursuant to this Section 5.18, (a) the Borrower may cause Net Cash Proceeds to be transferred to Qualified Holding Companies whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents if the Borrower nonetheless makes the related mandatory prepayment that would otherwise be required by Section 2.11(b) using funds not otherwise required to be made the basis of any mandatory prepayment and (b) if the Net Cash Proceeds are less than $10,000,000, the Borrower shall not be required to cause such Net Cash Proceeds effectively to be transferred directly or indirectly to the Borrower and applied pursuant to Section 2.11(b) until the aggregate Net Cash Proceeds not so applied equal or exceed $10,000,000. In connection with managing transfers of Net Cash Proceeds pursuant to this Section 5.18 and making loans, investments and other advances to Subsidiaries, the Borrower may cause Net Cash Proceeds to be transferred among Subsidiaries as permitted by Section 5.16, rather than transferred to the Borrower, in lieu of loans, investments or other advances the Borrower would otherwise be permitted to make as permitted by Section 5.16 and would make; provided that amounts that otherwise would be paid to the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents shall be treated as an Investment and such Investment must be permitted by Section 5.16. Section 5.19 Sales, Etc., of Assets. The Borrower will not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of, any assets, or grant any option or other right to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any assets, except: (i) sales of assets in the ordinary course of its business and the granting of any option or other right to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire assets in the ordinary course of its business; (ii) in a transaction permitted by Section 5.11;
96 (iii) sales, transfers or other dispositions of assets among the Borrower and its Subsidiaries; provided, however, that (a) in respect of sales, transfers or other dispositions by the Borrower to its Subsidiaries, the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any assets to any Excluded Subsidiary, and (b) in respect of sales, transfers or other dispositions by Subsidiaries to other Subsidiaries, (1) with respect to Excluded Subsidiaries, only Excluded Subsidiaries may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets to another Excluded Subsidiary and (2) with respect to other Subsidiaries, such sales, transfers or other dispositions are either permitted by Section 5.16 or the transferring Subsidiary has received fair value for such sales, transfers or dispositions; and (iv) sales, transfers or other dispositions of assets so long as (i) the consideration received by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such asset shall have been determined on the basis of arms-length negotiations with a non-Affiliate, (ii) except for sales of assets or Equity Interests of, or other Investments in, Excluded Subsidiaries, no less than 90% of the purchase price for such asset shall be paid to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries solely in cash or securities or other obligations that can be readily converted to cash so long as such securities or other obligations are converted to cash on the closing date of such sale, transfer or other disposition; provided that (A) not less than 80% of the purchase price shall consist of cash in the case of the sale of the Power Supply Businesses known as "Meghnaghat", "Haripur", and "Kelanitissa" and (B) in the case of a sale, transfer or other disposition of a Power Supply Business in development or under construction, the applicable amount of the purchase price required to be received in cash shall be reduced dollar for dollar by the amount that such sale reduces any Capital Commitment of the Borrower and (iii) any non-cash proceeds received by the Borrower or AES BVI II from the sale of such assets shall not consist of Debt or Equity Interests of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Debt of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries with a fair market value (together with the fair market value of the Debt of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries comprising the assets of any Person in which an Excluded Subsidiary has made an Investment pursuant to Section 5.16(a)(ix) not in excess of $15,000,000 in the aggregate) and shall be pledged to the Collateral Trustees as Security Agreement Collateral under the Security Agreement; (v) Liens permitted by the Financing Documents; (vi) the sale of Equity Interests in a project in development or under construction the proceeds from which shall be used to fund the cost of development or construction of such project; (vii) (1) a disposition resulting from the bona fide exercise by governmental authority of its claimed or actual power of eminent domain; (2) any cash payments otherwise permitted under this Agreement; (3) any sale, transfer, conveyance, lease or other disposition of an asset in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice pursuant to the terms of any power sales agreement or steam sales agreement or other agreement or contract related to the output or product of, or services rendered by, a Power Supply Business as to which a Subsidiary is the supplying party; (4) any disposition of any Equity Interest in a Power Supply Business pursuant to the terms of a
97 joint venture agreement, shareholders agreement or similar arrangement existing as of the date hereof that requires one shareholder to transfer its interest to another upon terms and in circumstances customary for the industry (provided that any cash received in connection with such disposition shall be treated as Net Cash Proceeds from a Covered Asset Sale); or (5) any disposition of assets subject to a Lien permitted hereby that is transferred to the lienholder or its designee in satisfaction or settlement of the lienholder's claim or a realization upon a security interest permitted under this Agreement; (viii) any disposition in connection with directors' qualifying shares or investments by foreign nationals mandated by applicable law; (ix) any sale of shares of Redeemable Stock of a Subsidiary to the extent such shares constitute Debt permitted by Section 5.07; (x) a sale-leaseback transaction involving substantially all of the assets of a Power Supply Business where a Subsidiary sells the Power Supply Business to a Person in exchange for the assumption by that Person of the Debt financing the Power Supply Business and the Subsidiary leases the Power Supply Business from such Person; provided that such sale, assumption and lease are consummated in each case on a no less than fair market value basis; (xi) dispositions of contract rights, development rights and resource data made in connection with the initial development of a Power Supply Business and prior to the commencement of commercial operation of such Power Supply Business for reasonably equivalent value; and (xii) transactions made in order to enhance the repatriation of cash proceeds in connection with any sale or other disposition in respect of the capital stock and/or property of any Subsidiary where such Subsidiary is organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof to the extent that the proceeds of such sale or other disposition are received by a Person subject in respect of such proceeds to the tax laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof or in order to increase the after-tax proceeds thereof available for immediate distribution (provided that if any asset that is the subject of such transaction is subject to a Lien in favor of the Secured Holders immediately prior to such transaction then such asset shall be subject to a Lien in favor of the Secured Holders immediately after such transaction). provided that in the case of sales of assets pursuant to clause (iv) above, the Borrower shall apply the Net Cash Proceeds from such sale to prepay the Loans and make a deposit in the Drax LOC Cash Collateral Account pursuant to, and in the amount and order of priority set forth in, Section 2.11(b), as specified therein.
98 Section 5.20 Off Balance Sheet Obligations; Derivative Obligations. (a) The Borrower shall not have, incur or undertake, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to have, incur or undertake any Off Balance Sheet Obligations, other than Off Balance Sheet Obligations existing on the date hereof. (b) The Borrower shall not enter into any Hedging Agreement, except for the Banc of America Secured Option and other Hedging Agreements entered into to hedge against fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates incurred in the ordinary course of business and consistent with prudent business practice. (c) The Borrower shall not permit its Subsidiaries to enter into any Hedging Agreements, except Hedging Agreements entered into to hedge against fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange, and commodity prices incurred in the ordinary course of business and consistent with prudent business practice. Section 5.21 Covenant to Give Security. (a) Upon (x) the formation or acquisition of any new direct Subsidiaries by the Borrower or AES BVI II or (y) the Investment by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in any direct Subsidiary of the Borrower or AES BVI II that was not a "Pledged Subsidiary" on the Closing Date such that aggregate assets of such Subsidiary have a fair market value in excess of $1,000,000, then in each case at the Borrower's expense: (i) within 10 days after (A) such formation or acquisition and (B) such Investment, furnish to the Agent a description of such Subsidiary, in each case in detail satisfactory to the Agent, (ii) within 15 days after such formation or acquisition of any new Subsidiary or such Investment in any direct Subsidiary of the Borrower or AES BVI II that was not a "Pledged Subsidiary" on the Closing Date, duly execute and deliver security agreement supplements (if necessary) as specified by, and in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent, securing payment of all of the Obligations of the Borrower under the Financing Documents; provided that if such new Subsidiary is a CFC, only 65% of such Equity Interests shall be pledged in favor of the Secured Holders, (iii) within 30 days after such formation or acquisition, take, and cause each Loan Party to take, whatever action (including, without limitation, the recording of mortgages, the filing of Uniform Commercial Code financing statements, the giving of notices and the endorsement of notices on title documents) may be necessary or advisable in the opinion of the Agent to vest in the Collateral Trustees (or in any representative of the Collateral Trustees designated by it) valid and subsisting Liens on the properties purported to be subject to the pledges, security agreement supplements, and security agreements delivered pursuant to this Section 5.21, enforceable against all third parties in accordance with their terms, and (iv) at any time and from time to time, promptly execute and deliver any and all further instruments and documents and take all such other action as the Agent may
99 deem necessary or desirable in obtaining the full benefits of, or in perfecting and preserving the Liens of, such pledges, assignments, security agreement supplements and security agreements. provided, however that Section 5.21(a)(y) shall not be applicable to Subsidiaries for which a grant or perfection of a Lien on such Subsidiary's stock would require approvals and consents from foreign and domestic regulations and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of, such Subsidiary. (b) Other than with respect to the Non-Pledged Subsidiaries, the Secured Holders shall have valid, perfected first priority Lien on (i) 65% of the Equity Interests of each direct Subsidiary of the Borrower that is (A) organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof, or (B) a limited liability company organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof the direct or indirect Subsidiary of which is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof, (ii) 100% of the Equity Interests of each direct Subsidiary of the Borrower that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof other than those Subsidiaries described by clause (i)(B) above and (iii) 65% of the Equity Interests of each direct Subsidiary of AES BVI II. Section 5.22 Further Assurances. (a) Promptly upon request by the Agent, or any Bank Party through the Agent, correct, and cause each of the other Loan Parties promptly to correct, any material defect or error that may be discovered in any Financing Document or in the execution, acknowledgment, filing or recordation thereof that affect the validity or enforceability thereof, and (b) Promptly upon request by the Agent, or any Bank Party through the Agent, do, execute, acknowledge, deliver, record, re-record, file, re-file, register and re-register any and all such further acts, pledge agreements, assignments, financing statements and continuations thereof, termination statements, notices of assignment, transfers, certificates, assurances and other instruments as the Agent, or any Bank Party through the Agent, may reasonably require from time to time in order to (A) carry out more effectively the purposes of the Financing Documents, (B) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, subject to the Borrower's properties, assets, rights or interests to the Liens now or hereafter intended to be covered by any of the Collateral Documents, (C) perfect and maintain the validity, effectiveness and priority of any of the Collateral Documents and any of the Liens intended to be created thereunder and (D) assure, convey, grant, assign, transfer, preserve, protect and confirm more effectively unto the Secured Holders and the Tranche C Secured Parties the rights granted or now or hereafter intended to be granted to the Secured Holders and the Tranche C Secured Parties under any Financing Document or under any other instrument executed in connection with any Financing Document to which any Loan Party is or is to be a party.
100 Section 5.23 Cilcorp Purchase. If (i) the Cilcorp Purchase Agreement is either terminated or abandoned or (ii) the sale of Cilcorp by the Borrower pursuant to the Cilcorp Purchase Agreement fails to close prior to June 30, 2003, within 10 days of such termination, abandonment or failure to close, the Borrower shall (x) duly execute and deliver such pledges, assignments, security agreement supplements and other security agreements as specified by, and in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and (y) take whatever other actions the Agent may request in its sole discretion in order to grant to the Collateral Trustees on behalf of the Secured Holders a first priority Lien on all of the Borrower's Equity Interests in Cilcorp. Within 20 days upon request therefor by the Agent in its sole discretion, the Borrower shall deliver to the Agent a signed copy of a favorable opinion, addressed to the Agent and the other Secured Holders, of counsel for the Obligors acceptable to the Agent as to such pledges, assignments, security agreement supplements and security agreements being the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable in accordance with their terms and that all other actions necessary to create valid perfected Liens on the Borrower's Equity Interest in Cilcorp have been taken and that the Agent and the other Secured Holders have a valid, perfected Lien on such Equity Interests. ARTICLE VI DEFAULTS Section 6.01 Events of Default. If one or more of the following events ("Events of Default") shall have occurred and be continuing: (a) any Loan Party shall fail to pay when due any principal of any Loan or any Reimbursement Obligation, or shall fail to pay within three days of the date when due any interest, fees or other amounts payable under any Financing Document; (b) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant contained in Sections 5.07 to 5.19, inclusive, or except in accordance with the terms hereof, the Subsidiary Guaranty in Article 9 shall cease to be in full force and effect; (c) any Loan Party shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in any Financing Document (other than those covered by clause (a) or (b) above) for 20 days after written notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Agent at the request of any Bank Party; (d) any representation, warranty, certification or statement made by any Loan Party in any Financing Document or in any certificate, financial statement or other document delivered pursuant to any Financing Document shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made (or deemed made); (e) the Borrower shall fail to make any payment in respect of any Material Debt or Material Hedge Agreement when due or within any applicable grace period;
101 (f) any event or condition shall occur which (i) results in the acceleration of the maturity of any Material Debt of the Borrower or the early termination of a Material Hedge Agreement of the Borrower by the Borrower's counterparty or the acceleration of any Material Debt or the early termination by the counterparty of such Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of any Material Hedge Agreement of any (x) Subsidiary of the Borrower that contributed 15% or more to Parent Operating Cash Flow for the four most recently completed fiscal quarters of the Borrower or (y) Subsidiaries of the Borrower that in the aggregate contributed 15% or more to Parent Operating Cash Flow for the four most recently completed fiscal quarters of the Borrower (in the case of clauses (x) and (y) above, together with any Person in which such Subsidiary or Subsidiaries have a direct or indirect equity Investment); (ii) results in the termination of any commitment to provide financing in an amount in excess of $50,000,000 to the Borrower or any Material AES Entity (other than AES Southland) or (iii) in the case of the Borrower, enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable) the holder of any Material Debt or counterparty to any Material Hedge Agreement of the Borrower or any Person acting on such holder's or counterparty's behalf to, in the case of any Material Debt, accelerate the maturity thereof or, in the case of any Material Hedge Agreement, to terminate such Material Hedge Agreement; (g) the Borrower or any Significant AES Entity (other than AES Southland) shall commence a voluntary case or other proceeding seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to itself or its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, or shall consent to any such relief or to the appointment of or taking possession by any such official in an involuntary case or other proceeding commenced against it, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall fail generally to pay its debts as they become due, or shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the foregoing; (h) an involuntary case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Borrower or any Significant AES Entity (other than AES Southland) seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to it or its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, and such involuntary case or other proceeding shall remain undismissed and unstayed for a period of 60 days; or an order for relief shall be entered against the Borrower or any Significant AES Entity under the federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect; (i) any member of the ERISA Group shall fail to pay when due an amount or amounts aggregating in excess of $15,000,000 which it shall have become liable to pay under Title IV of ERISA; or notice of intent to terminate a Material Plan shall be filed under Title IV of ERISA by any member of the ERISA Group, any plan administrator or any combination of the foregoing; or the PBGC shall institute proceedings under Title IV of ERISA to terminate, to impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or to cause a trustee to be appointed to administer any Material
102 Plan; or a condition shall exist by reason of which the PBGC would be entitled to obtain a decree adjudicating that any Material Plan must be terminated; or there shall occur a complete or partial withdrawal from, or a default, within the meaning of Section 4219(c)(5) of ERISA, with respect to, one or more Multiemployer Plans which could cause one or more members of the ERISA Group to incur a current payment obligation in excess of $15,000,000; (j) a judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $25,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower or (x) any Subsidiary of the Borrower that contributed 10% or more to Parent Operating Cash Flow for the four most recently completed fiscal quarters of the Borrower or (y) more than one Subsidiary of the Borrower and such Subsidiaries in the aggregate contributed 15% or more to Parent Operating Cash Flow for the four most recently completed fiscal quarters of the Borrower (in the case of clauses (x) and (y) above, together with any Person in which such Subsidiary or Subsidiaries have a direct or indirect equity Investment), and such judgment or order shall continue unsatisfied and unstayed for a period of 10 days; (k) any person or group of persons (within the meaning of Section 13 or 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) other than a member of the AES Management Group shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under said Act) of 32.5% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Borrower; during any period of twelve consecutive calendar months, individuals who were directors of the Borrower on the first day of such period (or who were appointed or nominated for election as directors of the Borrower by at least a majority of the individuals who were directors on the first day of such period) shall cease to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower; or (l) any Collateral Document after delivery thereof pursuant to Section 3.01 shall for any reason (other than pursuant to the terms thereof) cease to create a valid and perfected first priority lien on and security interest in a material portion of the Collateral purported to be covered thereby, then, and in every such event, the Agent shall (i) if requested by the Required Banks, by notice to the Borrower terminate the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments and the Drax LOC Commitment and they shall thereupon terminate and (ii) if requested by the Required Banks, by notice to the Borrower declare the Notes, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under this Agreement and the other Financing Documents to be, and the Notes, all such interest thereon and all such other amounts shall thereupon become immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; provided that in the case of any Automatic Acceleration Event, without any notice to the Borrower or any other act by the Agent or the Banks, the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments and the Drax LOC Commitment shall thereupon terminate and the Notes, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under this Agreement and the other Financing Documents shall become immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
103 Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default arising solely as a result of a Subsidiary Bankruptcy Cross Default, the Bank Parties hereto agree that they shall not exercise any right or remedy available to them under the Financing Documents until the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which the holders of the relevant Material Debt exercise any right or remedy available to them and (ii) the date which is 50 days following the date of the occurrence of such Subsidiary Bankruptcy Default. Section 6.02 Notice of Default. The Agent shall give notice to the Borrower under Section 6.01(c) promptly upon being requested to do so by any Bank Party and shall thereupon notify all the Banks thereof. Section 6.03 Cash Collateral. If any Automatic Acceleration Event shall occur or the Loans of the Bank Parties shall have otherwise been accelerated or the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments and the Drax LOC Commitment have been terminated pursuant to Section 6.01, then without any request or the taking of any other action by the Agent or any of the Bank Parties, the Borrower shall be obligated forthwith to pay (I) to the Collateral Agent an amount in immediately available funds equal to the then aggregate amount available for Revolving L/C Drawings (regardless of whether any conditions to any such Revolving L/C Drawings can then be met) under all Revolving Letters of Credit at the time outstanding, to be held by the Collateral Agent as cash collateral as provided in Section 2.15 and Section 2.16, in the case of all Revolving Letters of Credit and (II) to the Collateral Agent an amount in immediately available funds equal to the then aggregate amount available for Drax L/C Drawings (regardless of whether any conditions to any such Drax L/C Drawings can then be met), to be held by the Collateral Agent as Drax LOC Collateral as provided in Section 2.19 to be held by the Collateral Agent as Drax LOC Collateral as provided in Section 2.19, in the case of the Drax Letter of Credit. ARTICLE VII THE AGENT Section 7.01 Appointment and Authorization. Each Bank Party (on behalf of itself and its Affiliates as potential Hedge Banks) irrevocably appoints and authorizes the Agent and the Collateral Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Agreement and the other Financing Documents as are delegated to the Agent or the Collateral Agent, as the case may be, by the terms hereof and thereof, together with all such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by the Financing Documents (including, without limitation, enforcement or collection of the Notes), neither the Agent nor the Collateral Agent shall be required to exercise any discretion or to take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Required Banks, and such instructions shall be binding upon all Bank Parties and all the holders of Notes; provided, however, that neither the Agent nor the Collateral Agent shall be required to take any action that exposes such agent to
104 personal liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law. Without limiting any of the foregoing in this Section 7.01, the Agent shall not be required to take any action with respect to any Default, except as expressly provided in Article 6. Each of the Collateral Agent and the Agent agrees to give each Bank Party prompt notice of each notice given to it by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. Section 7.02 Agent and Affiliates. Citicorp USA, Inc. and its Affiliates may make loans to, issue letters of credit for the account of, accept deposits from, acquire Equity Interests in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust, financial advisory, underwriting or other business with each of the Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates as though Citicorp USA, Inc. were not the Agent or the Collateral Agent hereunder and without notice to or consent of the Bank Parties. The Bank Parties acknowledge that, pursuant to such activities, Citicorp USA, Inc. or its Affiliates may receive information regarding any Loan Party or its Affiliates (including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in favor of such Loan Party or such Affiliate) and acknowledge that neither the Agent nor the Collateral Agent shall be under any obligation to provide such information to them. With respect to its Loans or any Revolving Letters of Credit, Citicorp USA, Inc. shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement or any other Financing Document as any other Bank Party and may exercise such rights and powers as though it were not the Agent or the Collateral Agent, and the terms "Bank" and "Banks" include Citicorp USA, Inc. in its individual capacity. Section 7.03 Consultation with Experts. The Agent and the Collateral Agent may execute any of their respective duties under this Agreement or any other Financing Document (including for purposes of holding or enforcing any Lien on the Collateral (or any portion thereof) granted under the Collateral Documents or of exercising any rights and remedies thereunder) by or through agents, employees or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel, independent public accountants and other consultants or experts concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. Neither the Agent nor the Collateral Agent shall be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact that it selects in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct. Section 7.04 Liability of Agent and Collateral Agent. Neither the Agent, the Collateral Agent nor any of their Affiliates nor any of their respective directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in connection with this Agreement or any other Financing Document (a) with the consent or at the request of the Required Banks or (b) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Neither the Agent, the Collateral Agent nor any of their Affiliates nor any of their respective directors, officers, agents or employees shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain, inquire into or verify (i) any statement, warranty or representation made by any Loan Party in connection with the Financing Documents or any Extension of Credit hereunder, or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Agent or the Collateral Agent under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Financing Document; (ii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants or
105 agreements of any Loan Party; (iii) the perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest created or purported to be created under the Collateral Documents; (iv) the satisfaction of any condition specified in Article 3, except receipt of items required to be delivered to the Agent or (v) the validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of the Financing Documents or any other instrument or writing furnished in connection therewith. Neither the Agent nor the Collateral Agent shall incur any liability by acting in reliance upon any notice, consent, certificate, statement or other writing (which may be a bank wire, telex, facsimile transmission or similar writing) believed by it to be genuine or to be signed by the proper party or parties. Section 7.05 Indemnification. Each Bank Party shall, ratably (determined as provided below) indemnify the Agent, the Collateral Agent, each Revolving Fronting Bank and the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, each of their respective Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, agents and employees of any of them (to the extent not reimbursed by the Obligors) against any cost, expense (including counsel fees and disbursements), claim, demand, action, loss or liability (except such as result from such indemnitees' gross negligence or willful misconduct) that such indemnitees may suffer or incur in connection with the Financing Documents or any action taken or omitted by such indemnitees thereunder. For purposes of this Section 7.05, the Bank Party's ratable share of any amount shall be determined, at any time, according to the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of Loans outstanding at such time and owing to the respective Bank Party; (b) the aggregate Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities and Drax LOC Liabilities outstanding at such time and owing to the respective Bank Party and (c) their respective Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments outstanding at such time. Section 7.06 Credit Decision. Each Bank Party acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, the Collateral Agent, any Revolving Fronting Bank, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, or any other Bank or any Arranger Party, and based on the financial statements referred to in Section 4.05 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Bank Party also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, the Collateral Agent, or any other Bank Party, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking any action under this Agreement. Section 7.07 Successor Agent or Collateral Agent. The Agent or the Collateral Agent may resign at any time by giving notice thereof to the Bank Parties and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Banks shall have the right to appoint a successor Agent or a successor Collateral Agent. If no successor Agent or successor Collateral Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Banks, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Agent or Collateral Agent gives notice of resignation, then the retiring Agent or Collateral Agent (as the case may be), on behalf of the Bank Parties, shall appoint a successor Agent or a successor Collateral Agent (as
106 applicable), which shall be a commercial bank organized or licensed under the laws of the United States and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $250,000,000. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Agent or Collateral Agent (as the case may be) hereunder by a successor Agent or a successor Collateral Agent, upon the execution and filing or recording of such financing statements, or amendment, thereto, and such other instruments or notices, as may be necessary or desirable, or as the Required Lenders may request with respect to the Security Agreement and the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement, or as the Required Tranche C Term Loan Banks may request with respect to the Tranche C Pledge Agreement in order to continue the perfection of the Liens granted or purported to be granted by the Collateral Documents, such successor Agent or Collateral Agent (as applicable) shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights and duties of the retiring Agent or Collateral Agent (as the case may be), and the retiring Agent or Collateral Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. If within 45 days after written notice is given of the retiring Agent's or Collateral Agent's (as the case may be) resignation under this Section 7.07 no successor Agent or Collateral Agent (as the case may be) shall have been appointed and shall have accepted such appointment, then on such 45th day (i) the retiring Agent's or Collateral Agent's (as the case may be) resignation shall become effective, (ii) the retiring Agent or Collateral Agent (as the case may be) shall thereupon be discharged from its duties and obligations under the Financing Documents and (iii) the Required Banks shall thereafter perform all duties of the retiring Agent or Collateral Agent (as the case may be) until such time, if any, as the Required Banks appoint a successor Agent or a successor Collateral Agent as provided above. After any retiring Agent's or Collateral Agent's (as the case may be) resignation hereunder as Agent or Collateral Agent (as the case may be) the provisions of this Article shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Agent or Collateral Agent (as the case may be). Section 7.08 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to any Obligor, the Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities or the Drax LOC Liabilities shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise: (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, the Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities, the Drax LOC Liabilities and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Bank Parties and the Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Bank Parties and the Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Bank Parties and the Agent and the Collateral Agent under this Agreement) allowed in such judicial proceeding; (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and
107 (c) any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Bank Party to make such payments to the Agent and, in the event that the Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Bank Parties, to pay to the Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Agent, the Collateral Agent and their respective agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Agent under this Agreement. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Bank Party any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Bank Party or to authorize the Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Bank Party in any such proceeding. Section 7.09 Agents' Fee. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent and the Collateral Agent for their own account fees in the amounts and at the times previously agreed upon between the Borrower, the Agent and the Collateral Agent. ARTICLE VIII CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES Section 8.01 Basis for Determining Interest Rate Inadequate or Unfair. If on or prior to the first day of any Interest Period for any Euro-Dollar Borrowing: (a) the Agent is advised by the Reference Banks that deposits in Dollars (in the applicable amounts) are not being offered to the Reference Banks in the relevant market for such Interest Period, or (b) the Required Banks advise the Agent that the Adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate as determined by the Agent will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Banks of funding their Euro-Dollar Loans for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Bank Parties, whereupon until the Agent notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, (i) the obligations of the Bank Parties to make Euro-Dollar Loans, or to continue or convert outstanding Loans as or into Euro-Dollar Loans, shall be suspended and (ii) each outstanding Euro-Dollar Loan shall be converted into a Base Rate Loan on the last day of the then current Interest Period applicable thereto. Unless the Borrower notifies the Agent at least two Domestic Business Days before the date of any Euro-Dollar Borrowing for which a Notice of Borrowing has previously been given that it elects not to borrow on such date, such Borrowing shall instead be made as a Base Rate Borrowing.
108 Section 8.02 Illegality. If, on or after the date of this Agreement, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Bank Party (or its Euro-Dollar Lending Office) with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make it unlawful or impossible for any Bank Party (or its Euro-Dollar Lending Office) to make, maintain or fund its Euro-Dollar Loans to the Borrower and such Bank Party shall so notify the Agent, the Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to the other Bank Parties and the Borrower, whereupon until such Bank Party notifies the Borrower and the Agent that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, the obligation of such Bank Party to make Euro-Dollar Loans to the Borrower, or to convert outstanding Loans into Euro-Dollar Loans or continue outstanding Loans as Euro-Dollar Loans, shall be suspended. Before giving any notice to the Agent pursuant to this Section 8.02, such Bank Party shall designate a different Euro-Dollar Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for giving such notice and will not, in the judgment of such Bank Party, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank Party. If such notice is given, each Euro-Dollar Loan of such Bank Party then outstanding shall be converted to a Base Rate Loan either (a) on the last day of the then current Interest Period applicable to such Euro-Dollar Loan if such Bank Party may lawfully continue to maintain and fund such Loan as a Euro-Dollar Loan to such day or (b) immediately if such Bank Party shall determine that it may not lawfully continue to maintain and fund such Loan as a Euro-Dollar Loan to such day. Interest and principal on any such Base Rate Loan shall be payable on the same dates as, and on a pro rata basis with, the interest and principal payable on the related Euro-Dollar Loans of the other Bank Parties. Section 8.03 Increased Cost and Reduced Return. (a) If on or after the date hereof, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office) or any Revolving Fronting Bank or any Drax LOC Fronting Bank (any Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office) and any Revolving Fronting Bank and any Drax LOC Fronting Bank being referred to in this Section 8.03 as a "Credit Party") with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve (including, without limitation, any such requirement imposed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, but excluding with respect to any Euro-Dollar Loan any such requirement included in an applicable Euro-Dollar Reserve Percentage), special deposit, insurance assessment or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Credit Party or shall impose on any Credit Party or on the London interbank market any other condition affecting its Euro-Dollar Loans, its Note or Notes, the Revolving Letters of Credit, the Drax Letter of Credit or its participation therein or its obligation to make Euro-Dollar Loans or to issue Revolving Letters of Credit, the Drax Letter of Credit or to participate therein and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Credit
109 Party of making or maintaining any Euro-Dollar Loan or issuing any Revolving Letter of Credit or participating therein, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Credit Party under this Agreement or under its Note or Notes with respect thereto, by an amount deemed by such Credit Party to be material, then, within 15 days after demand by such Credit Party (with a copy to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Credit Party such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Credit Party for such increased cost or reduction. (b) If any Credit Party shall have determined that, after the date hereof, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation regarding capital adequacy, or any change in any such law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency, has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on capital of such Credit Party (or its Parent) as a consequence of such Credit Party's obligations hereunder to a level below that which such Credit Party (or its Parent) could have achieved but for such adoption, change, request or directive (taking into consideration its policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Credit Party to be material, then from time to time, within 15 days after demand by such Credit Party (with a copy to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Credit Party such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Credit Party (or its Parent) for such reduction. (c) Each Credit Party will promptly notify the Borrower and the Agent of any event of which it has knowledge, occurring after the date hereof, which will entitle such Credit Party to compensation pursuant to this Section 8.03(c) and will designate a different Applicable Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such compensation and will not, in the judgment of such Credit Party, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Credit Party. A certificate of any Credit Party claiming compensation under this Section 8.03(c) and setting forth the additional amount or amounts to be paid to it hereunder shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. In determining such amount, such Bank Party may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods. Section 8.04 Taxes. (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower and any other Loan Party to or for the account of any Bank Party, the Agent or the Collateral Agent hereunder or under any other Financing Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the case of each Bank Party, the Agent and the Collateral Agent, taxes imposed on its income (including branch profit taxes), franchise and similar taxes and other taxes imposed on it that, in any such case, would not have been imposed but for a material connection between such Bank Party, the Agent or the Collateral Agent (as the case may be) and the jurisdiction imposing such taxes (other than a material connection arising by reason of this Agreement or any other Financing Document or the receipt of payments made hereunder or thereunder or the exercise of any rights by a Bank Party, the Agent or the Collateral Agent (as the case may be) hereunder or thereunder) (all such non-excluded taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as
110 "Taxes"). If the Borrower or any other Loan Party shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any other Financing Document to any Bank Party, the Agent or the Collateral Agent (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 8.04) such Bank Party, the Agent or the Collateral Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made; (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions; (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law and (iv) the Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 10.01, the original or a certified copy of a receipt or other satisfactory documentation evidencing payment thereof. (b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes, or charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made by it hereunder or under any Note or from the execution or delivery of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Financing Document (hereinafter referred to as "Other Taxes"). (c) The Borrower agrees to indemnify each Bank Party, the Agent and the Collateral Agent for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 8.04) paid by such Bank Party, the Agent or the Collateral Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 15 days from the date such Bank Party, the Agent or the Collateral Agent (as the case may be) makes demand therefor. (d) Each Bank Party that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States shall, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of a Bank Party listed on the signature pages hereof or on or prior to the date on which it becomes a Bank Party in the case of each other Bank Party and in the case any Bank Party changes jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office and from time to time thereafter as requested in writing by the Borrower (but only so long thereafter as such Bank Party remains lawfully able to do so), shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent such certificates, documents or other evidence, as required by the Code or Treasury Regulations issued pursuant thereto, including Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, Form W-8 IMY or Form W-8ECI and any other certificate or statement of exemption specified by the Borrower and required by Treasury Regulation Section 1.1441-4(a) or Section 1.1441-6(c) or any subsequent version thereof, properly completed and duly executed by such Bank Party establishing that any payment under this Agreement or any other Financing Documents is (i) not subject to withholding under the Code because such payment is effectively connected with the conduct by such Bank Party of a trade or business in the United States, or (ii) fully or partially exempt from United States tax under a provision of an applicable tax treaty, or (iii) not subject to withholding under the portfolio interest exception under Section 881(c) of the Code (and, if such Bank Party delivers a Form W-8BEN claiming the benefits of exemption from United States withholding tax under Section 881(c), a certificate representing that such Bank Party is not a "bank" for purposes of Section 881(c) of the Code, is not a 10-percent shareholder (within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code) of the Borrower and is not a controlled foreign corporation
111 related to the Borrower (within the meaning of Section 864(d)(4) of the Code). Unless the Borrower and the Agent have received forms or other documents reasonably satisfactory to them indicating that payments hereunder are not subject to United States withholding tax or are subject to such tax at a rate reduced by an applicable tax treaty, the Borrower or the Agent shall withhold taxes from such payments at the applicable statutory rate in the case of payments to or for any Bank Party organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States. If a Bank Party is unable to deliver one of these forms or if the forms provided by a Bank Party at the time such Bank Party first becomes a party to this Agreement or at the time a Bank Party changes its Applicable Lending Office (other than at the request of the Borrower) or designates a Conduit Lender that indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Bank Party provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such appropriate forms; provided, however, that (i) that should a Bank Party, which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax, becomes subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as such Bank Party shall reasonably request to assist such Bank Party to recover such Taxes and (ii) if at the effective date of a transfer pursuant to which a Bank Party becomes a party to this Agreement, the Bank Party assignor was entitled to payments under Section 8.04(a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Bank Party assignee on such date. (e) If the Borrower is required to pay additional amounts to or for the account of any Bank Party pursuant to this Section 8.04, then such Bank Party shall use reasonable effort (consistent with internal policy and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office so as to eliminate or reduce any such additional payment which may thereafter accrue if such change, in the judgment of such Bank Party, is not otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank Party. (f) Each Bank Party, the Agent and the Collateral Agent agrees that it will promptly (within 30 days) after receiving notice thereof from any taxing authority, notify the Borrower of the assertion of any liability by such taxing authority with respect to Taxes or Other Taxes; provided that the failure to give such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligations under this Section 8.04 except to the extent that the Borrower has been prejudiced by such failure and except that the Borrower shall not be liable for penalties, interest or expenses accruing after such 30 day period until such time as it receives the notice contemplated above, after which time it shall be liable for interest, penalties and expenses accruing after such receipt. (g) If any Bank Party, the Agent or the Collateral Agent shall receive a credit or refund from a taxing authority (as a result of any error in the imposition of Taxes or Other Taxes by such taxing authority) with respect to and actually resulting from an amount of such Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Borrower pursuant to subsection (a) or (c) above, such Bank Party, the Agent or the Collateral Agent shall promptly pay to the Borrower the amount so received (without interest thereon, whether or not received).
112 (h) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement contained herein, the agreements, covenants and obligations contained in this Section 8.04 shall survive the payment in full of the principal of and interest on all Loans, Notes and other advances made hereunder. Section 8.05 Base Rate Loans Substituted for Affected Euro-Dollar Loans. If (a) the obligation of any Bank Party to make, or to continue or to convert outstanding Loans as or to, Euro-Dollar Loans to the Borrower has been suspended pursuant to Section 8.02 or (b) any Bank Party has demanded compensation under Section 8.03 or 8.04 with respect to its Euro-Dollar Loans to the Borrower and the Borrower shall, by at least five Euro-Dollar Business Days' prior notice to such Bank Party through the Agent, have elected that the provisions of this Section 8.05 shall apply to such Bank Party, then, unless and until such Bank Party notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension or demand for compensation no longer exist, all Loans to the Borrower which would otherwise be made by such Bank Party as (or continued or converted to) Euro-Dollar Loans shall be made instead as Base Rate Loans (on which interest and principal shall be payable contemporaneously with the related Euro-Dollar Loans of the other Bank Parties). If such Bank Party notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension or demand for compensation no longer exist, the principal amount of each such Base Rate Loan shall be converted into a Euro-Dollar Loan on the first day of the next succeeding Interest Period applicable to the related Euro-Dollar Loans of the other Bank Parties. ARTICLE IX SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY Section 9.01 The Subsidiary Guaranty. Subject in each case to the provisions of Section 9.08, (a) each of the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees as primary obligor and not merely as surety, the full and punctual payment as and when the same shall become due and payable (whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise) of the principal and interest on each Revolving Credit Loan Note and Tranche A Term Loan Note issued by the Borrower under this Agreement, the full and punctual payment of each Reimbursement Obligation in respect of the Revolving Letters of Credit under this Agreement and the full and punctual payment of all amounts payable by the Borrower under this Agreement in respect of the Revolving Credit Loan Facility and the Tranche A Term Loans (the "Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term
113 Loan Obligations") and (b) the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees as primary obligor and not merely as surety, the full and punctual payment as and when the same shall become due and payable (whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise) of the principal and interest on each Tranche C Term Loan Note issued by the Borrower under this Agreement and the full and punctual payment of all amounts payable by the Borrower under this Agreement in respect of the Tranche C Term Loans (the "Tranche C Term Loan Obligations") (the guarantees referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above are collectively referred to as the "Subsidiary Guaranty"). Upon failure by the Borrower to pay punctually any such amount, the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors, in respect of the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Obligations, and the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor, in respect of the Tranche C Term Loan Obligations, shall forthwith on demand pay the amount not so paid at the place and in the manner specified in the Agreement. The Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Obligations of the Borrower guaranteed by the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors are referred to as the "Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations" and the Tranche C Term Loan Obligations of the Borrower guaranteed by the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor are referred to as the "Tranche C Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations". The Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations and the Tranche C Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations are collectively referred to as the "Guaranteed Obligations". Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Subsidiary Guarantor's liability hereunder shall extend to all amounts which constitute part of the obligations guaranteed by it hereunder and would be owed by the Borrower hereunder but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving the Borrower. Section 9.02 Guaranty Absolute. Each Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor, jointly and severally, and the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor, guarantees that, subject to Section 9.09, the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations, in the case of the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors, and the Tranche C Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations, in the case of the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor, will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of the Banks and the Agent with respect thereto. The respective obligations of each of the Subsidiary Guarantors under the Subsidiary Guaranty are independent of the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Obligations, in the case of the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors, and of the Tranche C Term Loan Obligations, in respect of the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantors. The obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder shall be unconditional and absolute and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be released, discharged or otherwise affected by: (i) any extension, renewal, settlement, compromise, waiver or release in respect of any Obligation of any other Loan Party under any Financing Document, by operation of law or otherwise; (ii) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Financing Document or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; (iii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of the Borrower under the Financing Documents, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any Financing Document, including, without limitation, any increase in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from the extension of additional credit to the Borrower or otherwise;
114 (iv) any taking, exchange, release, impairment, invalidity or nonperfection of any Collateral; (v) any manner of application of the Collateral or proceeds thereof, to all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any manner of sale or other disposition of any Collateral for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other Obligations of the Loan Parties under the Financing Documents, or any other property or assets of the Loan Parties or any of their Subsidiaries; (vi) any failure by the Agent, the Collateral Agent or any other Lender Party to disclose to any Loan Party any information relating to the financial condition, operations, properties or prospects of any other Loan Party now or hereafter known to the Agent, the Collateral Agent or such Lender Party, as the case may be (such Subsidiary Guarantor waiving any duty on the part of the Agent, the Collateral Agent or the Lender Parties to disclose such information); (vii) any change in the corporate existence, structure or ownership of any Loan Party, or any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or other similar proceeding affecting any other Loan Party or its assets or any resulting release or discharge of any obligation of any other Loan Party contained in any Financing Document; (viii) the existence of any claim, set-off or other rights which such Subsidiary Guarantor may have at any time against any other Loan Party, the Agent, the Collateral Agent, any Bank Party or any other Person, whether in connection herewith or with any unrelated transactions; provided that nothing herein shall prevent the assertion of any such claim by separate suit or compulsory counterclaim; (ix) any invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against any other Loan Party for any reason of any Financing Document, or any provision of applicable law or regulation purporting to prohibit the payment by any other Obligor of the principal of or interest on any Note or any other amount payable by it under any Financing Document; or (x) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by any Obligor, the Agent, the Collateral Agent, any Bank Party or any other Person or any other circumstance whatsoever which might, but for the provisions of this paragraph, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of or defense to a Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder. Section 9.03 Discharge Only Upon Payment in Full, Reinstatement in Certain Circumstances. Each Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder shall remain in full force and effect until, in the case of the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors, the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Obligations have been paid in full and the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments have been terminated and, in the case of the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor, the Tranche C Term Loan Obligations have been paid in full. If at any time the payment of principal of or interest on any Note or any other amount payable by the
115 Borrower, in respect of the Revolving Credit Loan Facility and the Tranche A Term Loans or the Tranche C Term Loans under any Financing Document is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower or otherwise, the applicable Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder with respect to such payment shall be reinstated at such time as though such payment had been due but not made at such time. Section 9.04 Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account. (a) Each Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor further agrees that if the Borrower shall fail to deposit in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account any amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to this Agreement, the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors shall deposit such amount in a subaccount of the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account as collateral security for each Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor's potential obligations hereunder. If the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors shall fail to furnish such funds, the Agent shall be authorized to debit any accounts the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors maintain with the Agent in such amount. Cash deposited in such subaccount of the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account pursuant to this Section 9.04 shall be returned to the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors depositing the same to the extent that funds deposited by the Borrower in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account would have been required to be returned to the Borrower. (b) Each Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor hereby pledges and grants to the Agent, for the benefit of the Banks and the Agent, a continuing lien on and security interest in all right, title and interest of such Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor with respect to any funds held in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account from time to time, and all proceeds thereof, as security for the payment of the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations. (c) The Agent may, at any time or from time to time after the funds are deposited in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account, apply funds then held in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account to the payment of any of the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations. (d) Neither the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors nor any person or entity claiming on behalf of or through the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors shall have any right to withdraw any of the funds held in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account. (e) Each Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantor agrees that it will not (i) sell or otherwise dispose of any interest in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account or any funds held therein or (ii) create or permit to exist any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance upon or with respect to the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account or any funds held therein, except as contemplated by the terms of this Section 9.04.
116 Section 9.05 Waiver by the Subsidiary Guarantors. Each Subsidiary Guarantor irrevocably waives promptness, diligence, notice of acceptance, presentment, protest and any other notice with respect to any of its Guaranteed Obligations and this Subsidiary Guaranty and waives any requirement that the Agent, the Collateral Agent or any Bank Party protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest or Lien on the Collateral or exhaust any action against the Borrower against the Borrower or any other Person or entity or any Collateral. Section 9.06 Subrogation. Upon making any payment with respect to the Borrower under this Article 9, the applicable Subsidiary Guarantor shall be subrogated to the rights of the payee against the Borrower with respect to such payment; provided that no Subsidiary Guarantor shall enforce any payment by way of subrogation until all amounts of principal of and interest on the Notes and all other amounts payable by the Borrower under any Financing Document shall have been paid in full. Section 9.07 Stay of Acceleration. In the event that acceleration of the time for payment of any amount payable by the Borrower under any Financing Document is stayed upon insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower, all such amounts otherwise subject to acceleration under the terms of this Agreement shall nonetheless be payable by the applicable Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder forthwith on demand by the Agent made at the request of the requisite proportion of the Bank Parties specified in Article 6 of this Agreement. Section 9.08 Limitation of Liability. The obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor under this Article 9 shall be limited to an aggregate amount equal to the largest amount that would not render its obligations under this Article 9 subject to avoidance under Section 548 of the Bankruptcy Code or any comparable provisions of any applicable state law (including, without limitation, the provisions of the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act and the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, to the extent incorporated in applicable state law). Section 9.09 Release of Subsidiary Guarantors. Upon any Asset Sale of all of the Capital Stock of a Subsidiary Guarantor in accordance with the terms of the Financing Documents and the application of the Net Cash Proceeds from such Asset Sale to prepay the Debt hereunder pursuant to and in the amount and order of priority set forth in Section 2.11(b), such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released from all of its Obligations under this Article 9 and shall not be a "Subsidiary Guarantor" for any purpose under the Financing Documents.
117 Section 9.10 Representations and Warranties. Each Subsidiary Guarantor, as to itself, hereby makes the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.01, 4.02(a) and 4.04. Section 9.11 Covenants. (a) Each Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Guarantor hereby agrees to comply with the covenant set forth in Section 5.09(b). (b) The Tranche C Term Loan Guarantor hereby agrees to comply with the covenant set forth in Section 5.09(c). ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS Section 10.01 Notices. All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including bank wire, telex, facsimile transmission or similar writing) and shall be given to such party: (a) in the case of the Borrower, any Revolving Fronting Bank, any Drax LOC Fronting Bank, the Agent or the Collateral Agent, at its address or telex or facsimile transmission number set forth on the signature pages hereof; (b) in the case of any Bank, at its address or telex or facsimile transmission number set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire or (c) in the case of any other party, at such other address or telex or facsimile transmission number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Revolving Fronting Banks, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank and the Borrower. Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (x) if given by telex, when such telex is transmitted to the telex number specified in or pursuant to this Section 10.01 and the appropriate answerback is received; (y) if given by mail, 72 hours after such communication is deposited in the mails with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid or (z) if given by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in or pursuant to this Section 10.01; provided that notices to the Agent, the Collateral Agent, a Revolving Fronting Bank or the Drax LOC Fronting Bank under Article 2 or Article 8 shall not be effective until received. Section 10.02 No Waivers. No failure or delay by the Agent, the Collateral Agent or any Bank Party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Financing Document shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
118 Section 10.03 Expenses; Indemnification. (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent and the Collateral Agent, including, without limitation, (A) reasonable fees and disbursements of outside counsel for the Agent and the Collateral Agent in connection with the preparation and administration of this Agreement and the other Financing Documents, any waiver or consent hereunder or any amendment hereof or any Default or alleged Default hereunder, (B) the reasonable fees and disbursements of the Collateral Trustees and their outside counsel and (ii) if an Event of Default occurs, all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agent, the Collateral Agent, each Revolving Fronting Bank, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank and each Bank, including (without duplication) the fees and disbursements of outside counsel and the allocated cost of inside counsel, in connection with such Event of Default and collection, bankruptcy, insolvency, workout, restructuring and other enforcement proceedings resulting therefrom. (b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Agent, the Collateral Agent and each Bank Party, their respective Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, agents and employees of the foregoing (each, an "Indemnitee") and hold each Indemnitee harmless from and against any and all liabilities, losses, damages, costs and expenses of any kind, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel, which may be incurred by such Indemnitee in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding (whether or not such Indemnitee shall be designated a party thereto) brought or threatened relating to or arising out of the Financing Documents or any actual or proposed use of proceeds of Loans or the issuance or deemed issuance of any Revolving Letter of Credit or the deemed issuance of the Drax Letter of Credit hereunder; provided that no Indemnitee shall have the right to be indemnified hereunder for such Indemnitee's own gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. Section 10.04 Sharing of Set-offs. (a) Each Bank Party agrees that if it shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise (including, without limitation, through the application of any proceeds of the Creditor Group Collateral, the Excess Revolving L/C Collateral and the Excess Drax LOC Collateral), receive payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount due and payable to such Bank Party hereunder which is greater than the proportion received by any other Bank Party (A) on account of Obligations due and payable to such Bank Party hereunder and under the Notes at such time in excess of its ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Obligations due and payable to such Bank Party at such time to (ii) the aggregate amount of Obligations due and payable to all Bank Parties hereunder and under the Notes at such time) of payments on account of the Obligations due and payable to all the Bank Parties hereunder and under the Notes at such time obtained by all the Bank Parties at such time or (B) on account of Obligations owing (but not due and payable) to such Bank Party hereunder and under the Notes at such time in excess of its ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Obligations owing (but not due and payable) to such Bank Party at such time to (ii) the aggregate amount of Obligations owing (but not due and payable) to all Bank Parties hereunder and under the Notes at such time) of payments on account of the Obligations owing (but not due and payable) to all Bank Parties hereunder and under the Notes at such time obtained by all of the Bank Parties at such time, such Bank Party shall forthwith purchase from the other Bank Parties
119 such participations in the Obligations due and payable or owing to them, as the case may be, as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Bank Party to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; provided that nothing in this Section 10.04 shall impair the right of any Bank Party to exercise any right of set-off or counterclaim it may have and to apply the amount subject to such exercise to the payment of indebtedness of the Borrower owing to it. The Borrower agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any holder of a participation in a Note or in any Revolving Letter of Credit Liability or in any Drax LOC Liability, whether or not acquired pursuant to the foregoing arrangements, may exercise rights of set-off or counterclaim and other rights with respect to such participation as fully as if such holder of a participation were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation. (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 10.04(a), (i) the Revolving Credit Loan Banks and the Tranche A Term Loan Banks shall not be required to share any payment received (by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise) from the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guarantors in respect of the Revolving Credit Loan/Tranche A Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations and (ii) the Tranche C Term Loan Banks shall not be required to share any payment received (by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise) from the Tranche C Term Loan Guarantors in respect of the Tranche C Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations or from any disposition of the Tranche C Collateral, in each case with any other Bank Party. Section 10.05 Amendments and Waivers. Any provision of this Agreement or any other Financing Document may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed by the Borrower and the Required Banks (and, if the rights or duties of the Agent or the Collateral Agent are affected thereby, by the Agent or the Collateral Agent); provided that (a) no such amendment or waiver shall, unless signed by all the Bank Parties, (i) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01 or 3.02 (with respect to the Extensions of Credit made or deemed to be made on the Closing Date); (ii) change the number of Bank Parties or the percentage of (x) the Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments, (y) the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Loans or (z) the aggregate Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities and Drax LOC Liabilities that, in each case, shall be required for the Bank Parties or any of them to take any action hereunder; (iii) release all or substantially all of the Collateral in any transaction or series of related transactions; (iv) amend Section 10.04 or this Section 10.05; (v) postpone the date fixed for any payment of principal of or interest on any Loan or Reimbursement Obligation or any fees hereunder or (vi) postpone the final maturity of the Loans, (b) no such amendment or waiver shall, unless signed by the Required Banks and each Bank Party if such Bank Party is directly adversely affected by such amendment or waiver, (i) in the case of any Revolving Credit Loan Bank, increase the Revolving Credit Loan Commitment of such Revolving Credit Loan Bank; (ii) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes held by such Bank Party or Loans outstanding to such Bank Party or any fees or other amounts payable to such Bank Party; (iii) reduce or limit the Obligations of any Subsidiary Guarantor under Article 9 or release any Subsidiary Guarantor (other than in connection with a sale or disposition permitted hereunder) or otherwise limit such Subsidiary Guarantor's liability with respect to the Obligations owing to the Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Bank Parties, (iv) reduce the principal of or rate of interest
120 on any Loan or Reimbursement Obligation or any fees hereunder or (v) change the order of application in the prepayment of Loans and the cash collateralization of the Drax Letter of Credit Facility among the Facilities or any reduction in the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments from the application thereof set forth in the applicable provisions of Sections 2.10 and 2.11 in any manner that materially affects the Bank Parties under such Facilities, (c) no such amendment or waiver shall, unless signed by the Required Revolving Credit Loan Banks, amend, waive or delete the provisions of Section 3.02(d) or Section 3.02(e) and (d) no such amendment or waiver shall, unless signed by the Supermajority Banks (i) change the pro rata application of Net Cash Proceeds from Asset Sales or prepayments from Adjusted Free Cash Flow among the Bank Parties, on the one hand, and the other Financing Parties, on the other hand, set forth in Section 2.11(b)(i) and (b)(vii) by amending the definition of "Banks' Ratable Share" or otherwise or (ii) amend the definition of "Secured Holders" or "Secured Obligations" in the Collateral Trust Agreement or amend Sections 5.01, 8.01, 8.02 or 9.01 of the Collateral Trust Agreement; provided further that no such amendment or waiver shall, unless signed by the Revolving Fronting Banks or the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, as the case may be, affect the rights and obligations of the Revolving Fronting Banks or the Drax LOC Fronting Bank, as the case may be, under this Agreement; and provided further that no such amendment or waiver shall (x) release all or substantially all of the Creditor Group Collateral or (y) change the pro rata application of Net Cash Proceeds from Asset Sales or prepayments from Adjusted Free Cash Flow among the Financing Parties set forth in Section 2.11(b)(i) and (b)(vii) by amending the definition of "Banks' Ratable Share" or otherwise unless the Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it from the trustee under the Senior Secured Exchange Note Indenture that it has received the consent of those Exchange Note Holders holding a majority of the principal outstanding amount of the Senior Secured Exchange Notes. Notwithstanding anything of the foregoing, no amendment or waiver shall be required to release any Subsidiary Guarantor which is sold pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Financing Documents so long as the Borrower shall, on the date of receipt by the Borrower of the Net Cash Proceeds from such sale, prepay the Loans and make a deposit in the Revolving L/C Cash Collateral Account pursuant to, and in the order of priority set forth in Section 2.11(b), as specified therein. Section 10.06 Successors and Assigns. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, except neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary Guarantor may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of all of the Bank Parties (other than in the case of Subsidiary Guarantors in connection with any transaction permitted by the Financing Documents). (b) Any Bank other than a Conduit Lender may, without notice to or consent of the Borrower and Agent, at any time grant to one or more banks or other institutions (each, a "Participant") participating interests in its Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitment or any or all of its Loans or participating interests in its Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities or its Drax LOC Liabilities. In the event of any such grant by a Bank of a participating interest to a Participant, whether or not upon notice to the Borrower, the Revolving Fronting Banks, the Drax
121 LOC Fronting Bank and the Agent, such Bank shall remain responsible for the performance of its obligations hereunder, and the Borrower, the Revolving Fronting Bank, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank and the Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Bank in connection with such Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement pursuant to which any Bank may grant such a participating interest shall provide that such Bank shall retain the sole right and responsibility to enforce the obligations of the Borrower hereunder including, without limitation, the right to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Financing Document; provided that such participation agreement may provide that such Bank will not agree to any modification, amendment or waiver of this Agreement described in clauses (a) (i), (iv) through (vi) and clause (b) of Section 10.05 without the consent of the Participant. The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall, to the extent provided in its participation agreement, be entitled to the benefits of Article 8 with respect to its participating interest. An assignment or other transfer which is not permitted by subsection (c) or (d) below shall be given effect for purposes of this Agreement only to the extent of a participating interest granted in accordance with this subsection (b). (c) Any Bank Party other than a Conduit Lender may at any time assign to one or more banks or other institutions (each, an "Assignee") all, or a proportionate part of all (or in the case of an assignment by the Drax LOC Fronting Bank as a "fronting bank" under the Drax Letter of Credit Facility, all but not less than all), in each case in an amount not less than $1,000,000 (or such lesser amount as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the Agent), of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Financing Documents, and such Assignee shall assume such rights and obligations, pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption in substantially the form of Exhibit D hereto executed by such Assignee and such transferor Bank Party, with (and subject to) the subscribed consent of the Agent, the Borrower (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed but which shall not be required if (1) an Event of Default shall have occurred and is continuing, (2) in the case of assignments with respect to the Term Loan Facilities or the Drax Loans, (3) in the case of assignments by a Bank Party to a Related Fund of such Bank Party and (4) in the case of assignments with respect to the Revolving Credit Facility, if the proposed Assignee has a senior unsecured debt rating of "BBB" or higher by Standard & Poor's Rating Services or "Baa2" or higher by Moody's Investor Service, Inc.), and, in the case of assignments with respect to the Revolving Credit Loan Facility, the Revolving Fronting Banks (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and, in the case of assignments with respect to the Drax Letter of Credit Facility, the Drax LOC Fronting Bank (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); provided that if an Assignee is an Affiliate of such transferor Bank Party, no such consent shall be required; and provided, further that under no circumstances may the Borrower or any of its Affiliates be an "Assignee" hereunder. Upon execution and delivery of such instrument and payment by such Assignee to such transferor Bank Party of an amount equal to the purchase price agreed between such transferor Bank Party and such Assignee, such Assignee shall be a Bank Party party to this Agreement and shall have all the rights and obligations of a Bank Party as set forth in such instrument of assumption, and the transferor Bank Party shall be released from its obligations hereunder to a corresponding extent, and no further consent or action by any party shall be required. Upon the consummation of any assignment pursuant to this subsection (c), the transferor Bank Party, the Agent and the Borrower shall make appropriate arrangements so that, if required, new Notes are issued to the Assignee. In connection with any such assignment, the transferor Bank Party or Assignee shall pay to the Agent an administrative fee for processing
122 such assignment in the amount of $3,500. If the Assignee is not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof, it shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent certification as to exemption from, or reduction in, deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes as required by Section 8.04. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Conduit Lender may assign at any time to its designating Bank hereunder without the consent of the Borrower or the Agent any or all of the Loans it may have funded hereunder and pursuant to its designation agreement and without regard to the limitations set forth in the first sentence of this Section 10.06(c). (d) Any Bank Party may at any time assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and the other Financing Documents to a Federal Reserve Bank. No such assignment shall release the transferor Bank Party from its obligations hereunder. In the case of any Bank Party that is a fund that invests in bank loans, such Bank Party may, without the consent of the Borrower or the Agent, assign or pledge all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement, including the Loans and Notes or any other instrument evidencing its rights as a Bank Party under this Agreement, to any holder of, trustee for, or any other representative of holders of, obligations owed or securities issued, by such fund, as security for such obligations or securities; provided that unless and until such holder, trustee or representative actually becomes a Bank Party in compliance with the other provisions of this Section 10.06, (i) no such pledge shall release the pledging Bank Party from any of its obligations under the Financing Documents and (ii) such holder, trustee or representative shall not be entitled to exercise any of the rights of a Bank Party under the Financing Documents even though such trustee may have acquired ownership rights with respect to the pledged interest through foreclosure or otherwise. (e) Each of the Borrower, the Agent and each Bank hereby confirms that it will not institute against a Conduit Lender or join any other Person in instituting against a Conduit Lender any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceeding under any state bankruptcy or similar law, for one year and one day after the payment in full of the latest maturing commercial paper note issued by such Conduit Lender; provided, however, that each Bank designating any Conduit Lender hereby agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless each other party hereto for any loss, cost, damage or expense arising out of its inability to institute such a proceeding against such Conduit Lender during such period of forbearance. (f) The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 10.01, a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Bank Parties, the Revolving Credit Loan Commitments of, the amount of the Revolving Letter of Credit issued by, the principal amount of the Reimbursement Obligations owing to, and the principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Bank Party from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Bank Parties may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Bank Party hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Bank Party at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
123 Section 10.07 No Margin Stock. Each of the Bank Parties represents to the Agent and each of the other Bank Parties that it in good faith is not relying upon any "margin stock" (as defined in Regulation U) as collateral in the extension or maintenance of the credit provided for in this Agreement. Section 10.08 Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction. This Agreement and the other Financing Documents shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. The Borrower hereby submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and of any New York State court sitting in New York City for purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the other Financing Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Borrower irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that any such proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Section 10.09 Release of Collateral. Upon the sale, lease, transfer or other disposition of any item of Collateral of any Obligor (including, without limitation, as result of the sale, in accordance with the terms of the Financing Documents, of any Obligor that owns such Collateral) in accordance with the terms of the Financing Documents, the Agent will, at the Borrower's expense, execute and deliver to such Obligor such documents as such Obligor may reasonably request to evidence the release of such item of Collateral from the assignment and security interest granted under the Collateral Documents in accordance with the terms of the Financing Documents. Section 10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement and the other Financing Documents constitute the entire agreement and understanding among the parties hereto and supersede any and all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement shall become effective upon receipt by the Agent of counterparts hereof signed by each of the parties hereto (or, in the case of any such party as to which an executed counterpart shall not have been received, receipt by the Agent in form satisfactory to it of telegraphic, telex, facsimile transmission or other written confirmation from such party of execution of a counterpart hereof by such party). Section 10.11 Confidentiality. The Agent and each Bank Party agrees to keep confidential all non-public information provided to it by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement that is designated by the Borrower as confidential; provided that nothing herein shall prevent the Agent or any Bank Party from disclosing any such information (a) to the Agent, any other Bank Party or any affiliate of any Bank Party; (b) to any (i) actual or prospective transferee or (ii) Derivatives Obligations
124 counterparty (or such contractual counterparty's professional advisor), in each case that agrees to comply with the provisions of this Section 10.11; (c) to its employees, directors, agents, attorneys, accountants and other professional advisors or those of any of its affiliates; (d) upon the request or demand of any governmental authority; (e) in response to any order of any court or other governmental authority or as may otherwise be required pursuant to any requirement of law; (f) if required to do so in connection with any litigation or similar proceeding; (g) that has been publicly disclosed; (h) to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any similar organization or any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to information about a Bank Party's investment portfolio in connection with ratings issued with respect to such Bank Party; (i) to any direct or indirect contractual counterparty in any sway, hedge or similar agreement (or to any such contractual counterparty's professional advisor), so long as such contractual counterparty (or such professional advisor) agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Section 10.11; or, in connection with the exercise of any remedy hereunder or under any other Financing Documents. Section 10.12 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH OF THE BORROWER, THE AGENT, THE COLLATERAL AGENT AND THE BANK PARTIES HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE OTHER FINANCING DOCUMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY. Section 10.13 Severability; Modification to Conform to Law. It is the intention of the parties that this Agreement be enforceable to the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, but that the unenforceability (or modification to conform to such law) of any provision or provisions hereof shall not render unenforceable, or impair, the remainder hereof. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction, this Agreement shall, as to such jurisdiction, be deemed amended to modify or delete, as necessary, the offending provision or provisions and to alter the bounds thereof in order to render it or them valid and enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, without in any manner affecting the validity or enforceability of such provision or provisions in any other jurisdiction or the remaining provisions hereof in any jurisdiction. Section 10.14 Judgment Currency. If for the purposes of enforcing the obligations of the Borrower hereunder it is necessary to convert a sum due from such Person in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Bank Parties could purchase Dollars with such currency at or about 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the Domestic Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligations in respect of any sum due to the Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Bank Parties hereunder shall, notwithstanding any adjudication expressed in a currency other than Dollars, be discharged only to the extent that on the Domestic Business Day following
125 receipt by the Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Bank Parties of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency the Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Bank Parties may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase Dollars with such other currency; if the amount of Dollars so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Bank Parties in Dollars, the Borrower agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such adjudication, to indemnify the Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Bank Parties against such loss, and if the amount of Dollars so purchased exceeds the sum originally due to the Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Bank Parties, it shall remit such excess to the Borrower. [SIGNATURE PAGES IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written. THE AES CORPORATION, as Borrower By ------------------------------------- Title: Address: 1001 North 19th Street Arlington, VA 22209 Fax: (703) 528-4510
SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS: AES EDC FUNDING II, L.L.C., as Subsidiary Guarantor By ------------------------------------- Title: Address: Fax: AES HAWAII MANAGEMENT COMPANY, INC., as Subsidiary Guarantor By ------------------------------------- Title: Address: Fax: AES OKLAHOMA HOLDINGS, L.L.C., as Subsidiary Guarantor By ------------------------------------- Title: Address: Fax: AES SOUTHLAND FUNDING, L.L.C., as Subsidiary Guarantor By ------------------------------------- Title: Address: Fax: AES WARRIOR RUN FUNDING, L.L.C., as Subsidiary Guarantor By ------------------------------------- Title: Address: Fax:
BANKS: CITICORP USA, INC. By ------------------------------------- Title: BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. By ------------------------------------- Title: UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A. By ------------------------------------- Title::
DRAX LOC FRONTING BANK AND REVOLVING FRONTING BANKS: BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Drax LOC Fronting Bank and as Revolving Fronting Bank By ------------------------------------- Title: Address: Fax: Attention:
AGENT: CITICORP USA, INC., as Agent and as Collateral Agent By ------------------------------------- Title: Address: 388 Greenwich Street, 21st Floor New York, NY 10013 Fax: (212) 816-8098 Attention: Stuart Glen

EXHIBIT 99.3 EXECUTION COPY SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED PLEDGE AGREEMENT SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED PLEDGE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated as of December 12, 2002 by and between AES EDC FUNDING II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (with its successors, the "Pledgor") and Citicorp USA, Inc., ("Citibank") as collateral agent (in such capacity, the "Collateral Agent"). PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS: (1) The Pledgor is party to a Loan Agreement originally dated as of October 6, 2000, as amended and restated on November 16, 2000 (as amended and restated, the "Original Loan Agreement"), with the banks referred to therein (the "Original Banks") and Citibank (as successor to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York ("Morgan"), in its capacity as agent). (2) In connection with the Original Loan Agreement, the Pledgor entered into a Pledge Agreement in favor of Citibank (as successor to Morgan, in its capacity as collateral agent), originally dated as of October 6, 2000, as amended and restated on November 16, 2000 (as amended and restated, the "Original Pledge Agreement"), pursuant to which the Pledgor assigned and pledged to Citibank for its benefit and the ratable benefit of the Original Banks the Initial Shares (as defined below), the EDC Holdco Stock (as defined below) and certain other securities required to be pledged under the Original Pledge Agreement to secure all of the Secured Obligations (as defined in the Original Pledge Agreement) of the Pledgor under the Original Loan Agreement. (3) The Pledgor wishes to amend and restate the Original Loan Agreement by execution of an Amended and Restated Credit, Reimbursement and Exchange Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 (the "Credit Agreement"; terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings specified therein), with The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("AES"), the other Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, the Banks referred to therein and Citibank, as Administrative Agent and as Collateral Agent, to, among other things, extend the maturity of the Existing Bank Credit Agreements, including the Original Loan Agreement, and restructure certain provisions of the Existing Bank Credit Agreements. (4) In connection with the execution of the Credit Agreement, the Pledgor wishes to amend and restate the Original Pledge Agreement by execution of this Agreement to assign and pledge to the Collateral Agent for its benefit and ratable benefit of the Tranche C Term Loan Banks (the "Tranche C Secured Parties") the Pledged Stock (as defined below) to secure all of the Tranche C Secured Obligations (as defined below) of the Pledgor under the Credit Agreement. (5) The parties now wish to amend and restate the Original Pledge Agreement by the execution of this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: Section 1. Definitions. The following additional terms, as used herein, have the following respective meanings: "Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "AES Common Stock" means shares of the common stock, $.01 par value, of AES. "EDC Holdco Stock" means the 10 units of membership interests of Intermediate EDC Shareholder. "Initial Shares" means 15,000,000 shares of AES Common Stock. "Intermediate EDC Shareholder" means AES EDC Holding LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and its successors. "Pledged Stock" means (i) the EDC Holdco Stock and (ii) any other securities required to be pledged to the Collateral Agent pursuant to Section 3(b). "Tranche C Collateral" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3(a). "Tranche C Secured Obligations" means the Obligations of the Pledgor hereunder and under the Subsidiary Guaranty in respect of the Tranche C Term Loan Guaranteed Obligations. "Tranche C Security Interest" means the security interest in the Tranche C Collateral granted hereunder securing the Tranche C Secured Obligations. Unless otherwise defined herein, or unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used herein that are defined in the New York Uniform Commercial Code as in effect on the date hereof shall have the meanings therein stated. Section 2. Representations and Warranties. The Pledgor represents and warrants as follows as of the date of this agreement and as of any date on which the Pledgor pledges additional EDS Holdco Stock pursuant to Section 3(b): (a) Title to Pledged Stock. The Pledgor owns all of the Pledged Stock, free and clear of any Liens other than the Tranche C Security Interest. All of the Pledged Stock has been duly authorized and validly issued, and is fully paid and non-assessable, and is subject to no rights or options to purchase of any Person. The Pledgor is not and will not become a party to or otherwise bound by any agreement, other than this Agreement, which restricts in any manner the rights of any present or future holder of any of the Pledged Stock with respect thereto. (b) Validity, Perfection and Priority of Tranche C Security Interest. Upon delivery to the Collateral Agent of the certificates representing the Pledged Stock in accordance with 2
Section 4 and filing of UCC-1's, the Collateral Agent will have a valid and perfected first priority security interest in the Tranche C Collateral. No registration, recordation or filing with any governmental body, agency or official is required in connection with the execution or delivery of this Agreement or necessary for the validity or enforceability hereof or for the perfection or enforcement of the Tranche C Security Interest. The Pledgor has not performed and will not perform any acts which might prevent the Collateral Agent from enforcing any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement or which would limit the Collateral Agent in any such enforcement. Section 3. The Tranche C Security Interest. In order to secure the full payment of the Tranche C Secured Obligations in accordance with the terms thereof and to secure the performance of all of the obligations of the Pledgor hereunder: (a) The Pledgor hereby assigns, pledges and grants to the Collateral Agent for its benefit and the ratable benefit of the Tranche C Secured Parties a security interest in the Pledged Stock, and all of its rights and privileges with respect to the Pledged Stock, and all proceeds, income and profits thereon, and all interest, dividends and other payments and distributions with respect thereto (the "Tranche C Collateral"). On or before the date hereof, the Pledgor shall deliver to the Collateral Agent certificates representing the EDC Holdco Stock, and the Collateral Agent shall deliver a receipt therefor to the Pledgor. (b) (i) If Intermediate EDC Shareholder at anytime issues additional membership interests or other equity interests, the Pledgor shall immediately pledge to the Collateral Agent such additional securities and shall deliver to the Collateral Agent certificates representing such additional securities. (ii) All such additional securities delivered pursuant to this subsection constitute Pledged Stock and shall be subject to all provisions of this Agreement. In connection with the delivery of any additional securities pursuant to this section, the Pledgor shall provide to the Collateral Agent an opinion of the General Counsel of AES that such additional securities are duly authorized and validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable (or the equivalent thereof) and are subject to no rights or options to purchase of any Person. (c) The Tranche C Security Interest is granted as security only and shall not subject the Collateral Agent or any other Tranche C Secured Party to, or transfer or in any way affect or modify, any obligation or liability of the Pledgor with respect to any of the Tranche C Collateral or any transaction in connection therewith. Section 4. Delivery of Pledged Stock. (a) All certificates representing Pledged Stock delivered to the Collateral Agent by the Pledgor pursuant hereto shall be in suitable form for transfer by delivery, or shall be accompanied by duly executed instruments of transfer or assignment in blank, with signatures appropriately guaranteed, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Agent. 3
(b) The Collateral Agent acknowledges that, as of the date hereof, the Pledged Stock has not been registered under the Act, or under any state securities law. (c) The Collateral Agent understands that the Pledged Stock constitutes "restricted securities" under the Act and that the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission provide in substance that holders thereof may dispose of the Pledged Stock only pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Act or an exemption from such registration, if available. (d) The Collateral Agent hereby acknowledges that the certificates for the Pledged Stock may bear a legend to the effect that the shares represented by the certificate have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered, sold or transferred in the absence of a favorable opinion of recognized counsel or other evidence reasonably satisfactory to the issuer to the effect that registration thereof under such Act is not required for the effective registration thereof under such Act. Section 5. Filing; Further Assurances. The Pledgor agrees that it will, at its expense and in such manner and form as the Collateral Agent may reasonably require, execute, deliver, file and record any financing statement, specific assignment or other paper and take any other action that may be necessary or that the Collateral Agent may reasonably request, in order to create, perfect or validate the Tranche C Security Interest or to enable the Collateral Agent to exercise and enforce its rights hereunder with respect to any of the Tranche C Collateral. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Pledgor hereby authorizes the Collateral Agent to file, in the name of the Pledgor or otherwise, Uniform Commercial Code financing statements (which may be carbon, photographic, photostatic or other reproductions of this Agreement or of a financing statement relating to this Agreement) which the Collateral Agent in its sole discretion may deem necessary or appropriate to further perfect the Tranche C Security Interest. The Collateral Agent may at any time or from time to time, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, in its sole discretion, cause any or all of the Pledged Stock to be transferred of record into the name of the Collateral Agent or its nominee. The Pledgor will promptly give to the Collateral Agent copies of any notices or other communications received by it with respect to Pledged Stock registered in the name of the Pledgor and the Collateral Agent will promptly give the Pledgor copies of any notices and communications received by the Collateral Agent with respect to Pledged Stock registered in the name of the Collateral Agent or its nominee. Section 6. Right to Receive Distributions on Tranche C Collateral. Unless and until an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and to the extent permitted by the Credit Agreement, the Pledgor shall be entitled to receive and retain all dividends, interest and other payments made on or with respect to the Tranche C Collateral ("Dividends"). During the continuance of an Event of Default, the Collateral Agent shall have the right to receive and to retain as Tranche C Collateral hereunder all Dividends and the Pledgor shall take all such action as the Collateral Agent may deem necessary or appropriate to give 4
effect to such right. If the Collateral Agent receives any cash Dividend at a time when an Event of Default is not continuing, the Collateral Agent shall pay to the Pledgor such Dividend. Any Dividends that are received by the Pledgor during the continuance of an Event of Default shall be received in trust for the benefit of the Collateral Agent and the Tranche C Secured Parties and, if the Collateral Agent so directs, shall be segregated from other funds of the Pledgor and shall, forthwith upon demand by the Collateral Agent, be paid to the Collateral Agent as Tranche C Collateral in the same form as received (with any necessary endorsement). After all Events of Default have been cured, the Collateral Agent's right to retain Dividends under this Section 6 shall cease and the Collateral Agent shall pay over to the Pledgor any such Tranche C Collateral retained by it during the continuance of an Event of Default. Section 7. Right to Vote Pledged Stock. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Collateral Agent shall have the right, to the extent permitted by law, and the Pledgor shall take all such action as may be necessary or appropriate to give effect to such right, to vote and to give consents, ratifications and waivers, and take any other action with respect to any or all of the Pledged Stock, with the same force and effect as if the Collateral Agent was the absolute and sole owner thereof, subject to the receipt of any necessary regulatory approvals. Unless and until an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Pledgor shall have the sole right to vote and to give consents, ratifications and waivers, and take any other actions with respect to any or all of the Pledged Stock as it deems necessary or appropriate and the Collateral Agent shall, upon receiving a written request from the Pledgor accompanied by a certificate signed by its principal financial officer stating that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, deliver to the Pledgor such proxies, powers of attorney, consents, ratifications and waivers in respect of any of the Pledged Stock which is registered in the name of the Collateral Agent or its nominee as shall be specified in such request and be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent. Section 8. General Authority. The Pledgor hereby irrevocably appoints the Collateral Agent its true and lawful attorney, with full power of substitution, in the name of the Pledgor, the Collateral Agent, the Tranche C Secured Parties or otherwise, for the sole use and benefit of the Collateral Agent and the other Tranche C Secured Parties, but at the expense of the Pledgor, to the extent permitted by law to exercise, at any time and from time to time while an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, all or any of the following powers with respect to all or any of the Tranche C Collateral: (a) to demand, sue for, collect, receive and give acquittance for any and all monies due or to become due upon or by virtue thereof, (b) to settle, compromise, compound, prosecute or defend any action or proceeding with respect thereto, 5
(c) to sell, transfer, assign or otherwise deal in or with the same or the proceeds or avails thereof, as fully and effectually as if the Collateral Agent were the absolute owner thereof, and (d) to extend the time of payment of any or all thereof and to make any allowance and other adjustments with reference thereto; provided that the Collateral Agent shall give the Pledgor not less than ten days' prior notice of the time and place of any sale or other intended disposition of any of the Tranche C Collateral except any Tranche C Collateral which is perishable or threatens to decline speedily in value or is of a type customarily sold on a recognized market. The Collateral Agent and the Pledgor agree that such notice constitutes "reasonable notification" within the meaning of Section 9-612 of the Uniform Commercial Code. Section 9. Remedies. (a) Subject to the receipt of any necessary regulatory approvals, if an Actionable Default shall have occurred and be continuing and the Required Banks shall have begun to exercise their rights and remedies with respect to the Creditor Group Collateral, then, in addition to the remedies described in Sections 6, 7 and 8 above, the Collateral Agent may exercise all the rights of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code (whether or not in effect in the jurisdiction where such rights are exercised) and, in addition, the Collateral Agent may, without being required to give any notice except as herein provided or as may be required by mandatory provisions of law, (i) apply the cash, if any, then held by it as Tranche C Collateral as specified in Section 12 and (ii) if there shall be no such cash or to the extent such cash shall be insufficient to pay all the Tranche C Secured Obligations in full, sell, subject to Section 9(b), the Tranche C Collateral or any part thereof at public or private sale or at any broker's board or on any securities exchange, for cash, upon credit or for future delivery, and at such price or prices as the Collateral Agent may deem satisfactory and hold the proceeds as Tranche C Collateral hereunder or apply such proceeds as specified in Section 12. The Collateral Agent may be the purchaser of any or all of the Tranche C Collateral sold pursuant to this subsection at any public sale (or, if the Tranche C Collateral so sold is Pledged Stock or other Tranche C Collateral of a type customarily sold in a recognized market or of a type which is the subject of widely distributed standard price quotations, at any private sale). The Collateral Agent, instead of exercising the power of sale conferred upon it in this subsection, may proceed by a suit or suits at law or in equity to foreclose the Tranche C Security Interest and sell the Tranche C Collateral, or any portion thereof, under a judgment or decree of a court or courts of competent jurisdiction. (b) The Collateral Agent is authorized, in connection with any sale pursuant to this Agreement, if it deems it advisable to do so, (i) if the Pledged Stock is not then subject to a currently effective registration statement under the Act or if otherwise necessary to comply with the Act or any other law, to restrict the prospective bidders on or purchasers of any of the Pledged Stock to a limited number of sophisticated investors who will represent and agree that they are purchasing for their own account for investment and not with a view to the distribution or sale of any of such Pledged Stock, (ii) if the Pledged Stock is not then subject to a currently effective registration statement under the Act, to cause to be placed on certificates for any or all of the Pledged Stock or on any other securities pledged hereunder a legend to the effect that such 6
security has not been registered under the Act and may not be disposed of in violation of the provisions of the Act, and (iii) to impose such other limitations or conditions in connection with any such sale as the Required Tranche C Term Loan Banks deem necessary or advisable in order to comply with the Act or any other law. (c) The Pledgor covenants and agrees that it will execute and deliver such documents and take such other action as the Collateral Agent deems necessary or advisable in order that any sale of Tranche C Collateral permitted hereunder may be made in compliance with law. Upon any such sale, the Collateral Agent shall have the right to deliver, assign and transfer to the purchaser thereof the Tranche C Collateral so sold, subject to the receipt of any necessary regulatory approvals. Each purchaser at any such sale shall hold the Tranche C Collateral so sold absolutely free from any claim or right of whatsoever kind, including any equity or right of redemption of the Pledgor which may be waived, and the Pledgor, to the extent permitted by law, hereby specifically waives all rights of redemption, stay or appraisal that it has or may have under any law now existing or hereafter adopted. Any notice of a sale required by law shall (i) in the case of a public sale, state the time and place fixed for such sale, (ii) in the case of sale at a broker's board or on a securities exchange, state the board or exchange at which such sale is to be made and the day on which the Tranche C Collateral, or the portion thereof so being sold, will first be offered for sale at such board or exchange, and (iii) in the case of a private sale, state the day after which such sale may be consummated. Any such public sale shall be held at such time or times within ordinary business hours and at such place or places as the Collateral Agent may fix in the notice of such sale. At any such sale, the Tranche C Collateral may be sold in one lot as an entirety or in separate parcels, as the Collateral Agent may determine. The Collateral Agent shall not be obligated to make any such sale pursuant to any such notice. The Collateral Agent may, without notice or publication, adjourn any public or private sale or cause the same to be adjourned from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed for the sale, and such sale may be made at any time or place to which the same may be so adjourned. In case of any sale of all or any part of the Tranche C Collateral on credit or for future delivery, the Tranche C Collateral so sold may be retained by the Collateral Agent until the selling price is paid by the purchaser thereof, but the Collateral Agent shall not incur any liability in case of the failure of such purchaser to take up and pay for the Tranche C Collateral so sold and, in case of any such failure, such Tranche C Collateral may again be sold upon like notice. (d) In taking any action under this Section 9 or otherwise hereunder, the Collateral Agent shall act upon the instructions of the Required Tranche C Term Loan Banks. Section 10. Expenses. The Pledgor agrees that it will forthwith upon demand pay to the Collateral Agent: (a) the amount of any taxes that the Collateral Agent may have been required to pay by reason of the Tranche C Security Interest or to free any of the Tranche C Collateral from any Lien thereon, and (b) the amount of any and all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of legal counsel and of any other experts, which the Collateral Agent may incur in connection with (i) the administration or enforcement 7
of this Agreement, including such expenses as are incurred to preserve the value of the Tranche C Collateral and the validity, perfection, rank and value of any Tranche C Security Interest, (ii) the collection, sale or other disposition of any of the Tranche C Collateral permitted hereunder, or (iii) the exercise by the Collateral Agent of any of the rights conferred upon it hereunder. Any such amount not paid on demand shall bear interest at a per annum rate of 2% plus the Base Rate. Section 11. Limitation on Duty of the Collateral Agent in Respect of Tranche C Collateral. Beyond the exercise of reasonable care in the custody thereof, the Collateral Agent shall have no duty as to any Tranche C Collateral in its possession or control. The Collateral Agent shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and preservation of the Tranche C Collateral in its possession if the Tranche C Collateral is accorded treatment substantially equal to that which it accords its own property and shall not be liable or responsible for any loss or damage to any of the Tranche C Collateral, or for any diminution in the value thereof, by reason of any act or omission of any agent or bailee selected by the Collateral Agent in good faith, other than any act or omission caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such bailee or any act or omission made in breach of this Agreement. Section 12. Application of Proceeds. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Actionable Default, the proceeds of any sale of, or other realization upon, all or any part of the Tranche C Collateral and any cash held shall be applied by the Collateral Agent in the following order of priority: first, paid to the Collateral Agent for any amounts then owing to the Collateral Agent pursuant to Section 10.03 of the Credit Agreement, Section 10 hereof or otherwise under the Financing Documents; second, ratably paid to the Tranche C Term Loan Banks for any amounts then owing to them, in their capacity as Tranche C Term Loan Banks, under the Credit Agreement ratably in accordance with such respective amounts; third, paid to the Pledgor or its successors or assigns, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct, in respect of any surplus then remaining from such proceeds. Section 13. Release of the Initial Shares; Termination of Tranche C Security Interest; Release of Tranche C Collateral. (a) Upon the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the parties hereto and the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.01 of the Credit Agreement (other than the condition set forth in clause 3.01(f)), all certificates representing the Initial Shares and all other shares of AES Common Stock delivered to the Collateral Agent by the Pledgor pursuant to the Original Pledge Agreement (the "AES Shares") shall be released by the Collateral Agent and the 8
Collateral Agent will, at the expense of the Pledgor, execute and deliver to the Pledgor such documents as the Pledgor shall reasonably request to evidence the release of the AES Shares. (b) Upon the repayment in full of all Tranche C Secured Obligations, the Tranche C Security Interest shall terminate and all rights to the Tranche C Collateral shall revert to the Pledgor. At any time and from time to time prior to such termination of the Tranche C Security Interest, the Collateral Agent may release any of the Tranche C Collateral with the prior written consent of the Required Tranche C Term Loan Banks. Upon such termination or release of the Tranche C Security Interest, the Collateral Agent will, at the expense of the Pledgor, execute and deliver to the Pledgor such documents as the Pledgor shall reasonably request to evidence the termination of the Tranche C Security Interest or the release of such Tranche C Collateral, as the case may be. (c) Upon the sale, lease, transfer or other disposition of the Intermediate EDC Shareholder in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, as result of the sale, in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement, of all of the Equity Interests of the Pledgor), the security interest in the Tranche C Collateral shall automatically terminate and the Collateral Agent shall, at the Pledgor's expense, execute and deliver to the Pledgor such documents as the Pledgor may reasonably request to evidence the release of the Tranche C Collateral from the assignment and security interest granted hereunder. Section 14. Notices. All notices, communications and distributions hereunder shall be given in accordance with Section 10.01 of the Credit Agreement. Section 15. Waivers; Non-exclusive Remedies. No failure on the part of the Collateral Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising and no course of dealing with respect to, any right under this Agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Collateral Agent of any right under the Credit Agreement or this Agreement preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The rights in this Agreement and the Credit Agreement are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other remedies provided by law. Section 16. Successors and Assigns; Continuing Security Interest. This Agreement is for the benefit of the Collateral Agent and the Tranche C Secured Parties and their successors and assigns, and in the event of an assignment of all or any of the Tranche C Secured Obligations, the rights hereunder, to the extent applicable to the indebtedness so assigned, may be transferred with such indebtedness. This Agreement shall be binding on the Pledgor and its successors and assigns. The Pledgor hereby acknowledges the grant of security interest in and to all the Collateral (other than the AES Shares) as defined in and under the Original Pledge Agreement. Such grant of security interest (i) shall continue in full force and effect by this amendment and restatement of the Original Pleldge Agreement and (ii) is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects. 9
Section 17. Changes in Writing. Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be changed, waived, discharged or terminated except in accordance with Section 10.05 of the Credit Agreement. Section 18. New York Law. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York, except as otherwise required by mandatory provisions of law and except to the extent that remedies provided by the laws of any jurisdiction other than New York are governed by the laws of such jurisdiction. Section 19. Severability. If any provision hereof is invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, then, to the fullest extent permitted by law (a) the other provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect in such jurisdiction and shall be liberally construed in order to carry out the intentions of the parties hereto as nearly as may be possible and (b) the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision hereof in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction. Section 20. Concerning the Collateral Agent. The provisions of Section 10.03, Section 8.04 and Article 7 of the Credit Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the Collateral Agent in respect of this Agreement and shall be binding upon the parties to the Credit Agreement in such respect. In furtherance and not in derogation of the rights, privileges and immunities of the Collateral Agent therein set forth: (a) The Collateral Agent is authorized to take all such action as is provided to be taken by it as Collateral Agent hereunder and all other action reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for herein (including any determination to exercise remedies hereunder, and the timing and methods of realization upon the Tranche C Collateral) the Collateral Agent shall act or refrain from acting in accordance with written instructions from the Required Tranche C Term Loan Banks or, in the absence of such instructions, in accordance with its discretion. (b) The Collateral Agent shall not be responsible for the existence, genuineness or value of any of the Tranche C Collateral or for the validity, perfection, priority or enforceability of the Tranche C Security Interests in any of the Tranche C Collateral, whether impaired by operation of law or by reason of any action or omission to act on its part hereunder. The Collateral Agent shall have no duty to ascertain or inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms of this Agreement by the Pledgor. Section 21. Appointment of Co-Agents. At any time or times, in order to comply with any legal requirement in any jurisdiction, the Agent may appoint another bank or trust company or one or more other persons, either to act as co-agent or co-agents, jointly with the Collateral Agent, or to act as separate agent or agents 10
on behalf of the Tranche C Secured Parties with such power and authority as may be necessary for the effectual operation of the provisions hereof and may be specified in the instrument of appointment (which may, in the discretion of the Collateral Agent, include provisions for the protection of such co-agent or separate agent similar to the provisions of Section 20). 11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written. AES EDC FUNDING II LLC By: ------------------------------------ Name: Title: CITICORP USA, INC., as Collateral Agent By: ------------------------------------ Name: Title: 12


