FILE:AES/AES-8K-20050506165916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20349 Form 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 5, 2005 THE AES CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 1001 North 19th Street, 20th Floor Arlington, Virginia 22209 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (703) 522-1315 NOT APPLICABLE (Former Name or Former Address, if changed since last report) - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. As of May 4, 2005, William Luraschi, formerly General Counsel for The AES Corporation ("AES"), has been appointed to lead Corporate Development and Strategy for AES. Mr. Luraschi will remain an Executive Vice President and a member of the Executive Office. In connection with this appointment, Mr. Luraschi has received a retention grant of 59,079 restricted stock units under The AES Corporation 2003 Long Term Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The grant is scheduled to vest one third per year for three years and will be paid out in accordance with terms determined by the Board of Directors pursuant to the Plan. In addition, Mr. Luraschi's annual base salary has been increased by $30,000 to $460,000. Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. On May 5, 2005, AES issued a press release announcing a new regional organizational structure which includes, among other changes, the appointment, effective as of May 4, 2005, of four new regional presidents. David Gee (50) was appointed to serve as regional President of AES's North America group. Mr. Gee served as Vice President of Strategy for AES since 2004. Prior to joining AES, he served as Vice President -- Strategic Planning at PG&E Corporation from 2002 - 2003 and was a consultant at McKinsey and Company from 1985 - 2000. AES has not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Gee in connection with Mr. Gee's appointment. Andres Gluski (47) was appointed to serve as regional President of AES's Latin America group. Mr. Gluski joined AES in 1998 and has since held several senior leadership positions including Senior Vice President, Caribbean and Central America and Chairman and CEO of Electricidad de Caracas, a subsidiary of AES. AES has not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Gluski in connection with Mr. Gluski's appointment. Haresh Jainsinghani (38) was appointed to serve as regional President of AES's Asia group. Mr. Jaisinghani joined AES in 1994 and has since held several senior leadership positions, including Officer and Vice President of AES in Asia, where he managed operations and business development. AES has not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Jainsinghani in connection with Mr. Jainsinghani's appointment.
Shazhad Qasim (50) was appointed to serve as regional President of AES's Europe, Africa and the Middle East group. Mr. Qasim joined AES in 1992 and has since held senior leadership positions, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of AES in the Middle East and North Africa, where he was responsible for business development and operations. AES has not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Qasim in connection with Mr. Qasim's appointment. As part of the new organizational structure, John Ruggirello, formerly Chief Operating Officer - Contract Generation and acting COO- Integrated Utilities, will remain Executive Vice President and a member of the Executive Office. Item 8.01 Other Events. On May 5, 2005, AES issued a press release announcing a new regional organizational structure. A copy of the press release is set forth as exhibit 99.1 to this corporate report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. The AES Corporation Date: May 6, 2005 By: /s/ Vincent W. Mathis ----------------------------------- Name: Vincent W. Mathis Title: Assistant General Counsel
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release dated May 5, 2005

AES Expands Leadership Team New Organization Aligns Regional Business Units to Drive Performance ARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 5, 2005--The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES - News) today announced the expansion of its leadership team and a new regional organizational structure to drive business performance and position the company for long-term quality growth. The new structure includes the addition of four regional presidents to lead AES's businesses in 27 countries. The regional presidents will report to AES's President and Chief Executive Officer, Paul Hanrahan. The businesses will be aligned on a regional basis as compared to the previous business line structure. The organizational changes also streamline some corporate functions in order to more effectively support AES businesses around the globe. "Our previous organizational structure by business lines was very successful and allowed us to achieve strong financial results over the past two years," said Hanrahan. "The timing is right to move the organization to the next level of business performance. The regional alignment will allow us to capture the benefits of regional integration, both in terms of our existing businesses and future expansion opportunities." AES's four new regional business groups and leaders include: o North America. David Gee will serve as regional President of the North America group. Gee has led AES's strategy group since 2004. Prior to joining AES, he was with PG&E Corporation, McKinsey and Company, Inc. and Baker Hughes. o Latin America. Andres Gluski will serve as regional President of the Latin America group. Since joining AES in 2000, Gluski has held several senior leadership positions. He led the company's business in the Caribbean and Central America and served as Chairman and CEO of Electricidad de Caracas in Venezuela and of Gener in Chile. Prior to joining AES, he worked in executive positions in the Venezuelan government, multilateral and financial institutions and private utilities. o Asia. Haresh Jaisinghani will serve as regional President of the Asia group. Since joining AES in 1994, Jaisinghani has held senior leadership positions in Asia and the Pacific region, where he worked in business development and subsequently led the company's business operations. o Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Shahzad Qasim will serve as regional President of the Europe, Africa and Middle East group. Since joining AES in 1992, Qasim has held senior leadership positions in the Middle East and North Africa, where he worked in business development and subsequently led the company's business operations. Before joining AES, he was with the consulting firms McKinsey and Company, Inc. and Stone and Webster Management Consultants. Other AES leaders will be assuming new responsibilities on the leadership team. William Luraschi will lead Corporate Development and Strategy. He formerly served as General Counsel. He has been with AES since 1993 and played a significant role during the company's restructuring, leading its successful asset sales program. Brian Miller was named General Counsel and will continue to serve as Corporate Secretary. He joined the company in 2001 and most recently served as Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Hanrahan also announced the creation of a corporate Business Excellence group which will consolidate many of the corporate functions into one group responsible for performance improvement and providing support to AES's regional businesses. Jay Kloosterboer will lead this function. Kloosterboer served as Chief Human Resources Officer since 2003. Prior to joining AES, Jay Kloosterboer held senior positions at Honeywell International and also worked at General Electric. The members of the Executive Office, which has key decision-making authority for the company on management and operational issues, remain: Richard Darman, Chairman; Paul Hanrahan; Robert Hemphill; William Luraschi; John Ruggirello; and Barry Sharp. About AES AES is a leading global power company, with 2004 sales of $9.5 billion. AES operates in 27 countries, generating 44,000 megawatts of electricity through 120 power facilities and delivers electricity through 15 distribution companies. Our 30,000 people are committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's growing power needs. To learn more about AES, please visit www.aes.com or contact media relations at
media@aes.com. - -------------------- Contact: The AES Corporation Media: Robin Pence, 703-682-6552 or Investor: Scott Cunningham, 703-682-6336


