FILE:AES/AES-8K-20060403212114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01
                          
Other Events
 
On April 3, 2006, The AES Corporation (the "Company") announced that it had defaulted on its $600 million senior unsecured credit facility due to the restatement of its 2004 financial statements. The credit facility is a syndicated loan and letter of credit facility lead arranged by Merrill Lynch. The Company obtained a waiver of the default on April 3, 2006. The credit facility will be used for general corporate purposes and to provide letters of credit to support AES's investment commitment as well as the underlying funding for the equity portion of its investment in AES Maritza East 1 on an intermediate-term basis.
Item 9.01
                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
(d)
                                                                      
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Dated as of April 3, 2006
 
WAIVER NO. 1 TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Banks listed on the signature pages hereto, MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA (a ""), and MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL CORPORATION, as administrative agent (the "").
Waiver
Borrower
Fronting Bank
Administrative Agent
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower is party to a Credit Agreement dated as of March 29, 2006 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified up to the date hereof, the ""; capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall be used herein as defined in the Credit Agreement) among the Borrower, the Banks, the Fronting Banks and the Administrative Agent;
(1)
                                 
Credit Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Banks and the Fronting Banks agree to waive certain provisions of the Credit Agreement;
(2)
                                 
 
WHEREAS, the Banks and the Fronting Banks have agreed, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to waive certain provisions of the Credit Agreement as set forth below; and
(3)
                                 
 
WHEREAS, on April 3, 2006, the Borrower filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Current Report on Form 8-K (the ""), which described restatements that the Borrower would be making with respect to its 2003 and 2004 fiscal years (collectively, the "").
(4)
                                 
8-K
Restatements
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of all of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
. As of the Effective Date, the Banks and the Fronting Banks hereby grant the following waiver under the Credit Agreement:
SECTION 1.
                               
Waiver
 
. The Banks and the Fronting Banks hereby (i) waive any Default or Event of Default existing on the date hereof under Section 6.01(d) of the Credit Agreement constituted by breaches of the representations or warranties made by the Borrower in Section 3.01(g), 4.05(a) or 4.13 of the Credit Agreement solely to the extent resulting from changes to the Borrower's financial statements that are to be made as part of the Restatements to the extent such changes relate to matters disclosed in the 8-K and (ii) agree that any future breach resulting solely from such changes that occurs upon the Borrower remaking such representations or warranties shall not be considered a Default or Event of Default under Section 6.01(d) of the Credit Agreement.
(a)
                                 
Financial Information
 
. This Waiver shall become effective when, and only when, and as of the date Waivera favorable opinion of the Deputy General Counsel of the Borrower regarding the due authorization, execution and delivery of this Waiver and other matters reasonably requested by the Agent and a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower dated the Effective Date, to the effect that, after giving effect to this Waiver: (i) the representations and warranties contained in each of the Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Effective Date as though made on and as of such date (unless stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date); and (ii) no Default has occurred and is continuing.
SECTION 2.
                               
Conditions to Effectiveness
(the "") on which (a) the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this Waiver executed by the Borrower, the Fronting Banks and 100% of the Banks or, as to any of the Banks, advice satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that such Bank has executed this
Effective Date
, (b) the Administrative Agent shall have received payment of all accrued and invoiced fees and expenses of the Administrative Agent (including the reasonable and accrued fees of counsel to the Administrative Agent invoiced on or prior to the date hereof), (c) the Administrative Agent shall have received
Administrative
(d) the Administrative Agent shall have received
 
This Waiver is subject to the provisions of Section 9.05 of the Credit Agreement.
 
. The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
SECTION 3.
                               
Representations and Warranties
 
The representations and warranties contained in the Credit Agreement, after giving effect to this Waiver, are correct in all material respects on and as of the date of this Waiver, as though made on and as of such date (unless stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date).
(a)
                                 
 
After giving effect to this Waiver, no Default has occurred and is continuing on the date hereof.
(b)
                                
 
. (a)  On and after the Effective Date, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "", "", "" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in any Notes to "", "", "", or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as modified hereby.
SECTION 4.
                               
Reference to and Effect on the Financing Documents
this Agreement
hereunder
hereof
the Agreement
thereunder
thereof
 
The Credit Agreement and any Notes, as specifically modified by this Waiver, are and shall continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.
(b)
                                
 
The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Waiver shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of the Banks or the Fronting Banks, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement.
(c)
                                 
 
. THIS WAIVER AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HERETO SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED
SECTION 5.
                               
GOVERNING LAW
 
 
AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS WAIVER OR THE ACTIONS OF THE COLLATERAL TRUSTEES OR THE AGENT IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT THEREOF.
SECTION 6.
                               
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
. This Waiver may be executed by one or more of the parties to this Waiver on any number of separate counterparts, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.
SECTION 7.
                               
Execution in Counterparts
 
. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses associated with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, and enforcement of this Waiver, including, without limitation, the fees and expenses of the Agent's counsel and other out-of-pocket expenses related hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Waiver by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Waiver.
SECTION 8.
                               
Costs and Expenses
Administrative
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Waiver to be duly executed and delivered by their respective proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 


