FILE:AES/AES-8K-20070305083542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
 March 5, 2007
 
THE AES CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(703) 522-1315
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
                                      
On March 5, 2007, The AES Corporation (the "Company") announced that Mr. Andres Gluski has been appointed to the new position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company.  Mr. Gluski will report to AES President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Hanrahan.  The appointment was made on March 2, 2007.
Mr. Gluski, who is 49 years old, has been an Executive Vice President of the Company and the Regional President of Latin America since 2005.  Mr. Gluski was Senior Vice President for the Caribbean and Central America from 2003 to 2005, was Group Manager and CEO of Electricidad de Caracas ("EDC") (Venezuela) from 2002 to 2003, served as CEO of Gener (Chile) in 2001 and was Executive Vice President of EDC and Corporacion EDC. Prior to joining the Company in 1997, Mr. Gluski was Executive Vice President of Corporate Banking for Banco de Venezuela and Executive Vice President of Finance of CANTV in Venezuela. Mr. Gluski is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Wake Forest University and earned a Master of Arts and a Doctorate in Economics from the University of Virginia.
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
2
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact
Robin Pence 703 682 6552
Investor Contact
Scott Cunningham 703 682 6336
 
AES Names Andres Gluski Chief Operating Officer
Arlington, VA, March 5, 2007  The AES Corporation (NYSE:AES) today announced the appointment of Andres Gluski as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (COO), a move that will enable the company to maintain its focus on operational excellence as it continues to pursue new growth opportunities.
Dr. Gluski will oversee AES's generation and distribution businesses in its four geographic regions as well as human resources, safety and environment, information technology, engineering and construction, insurance and strategic sourcing. He continues to report to AES President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Hanrahan.
Dr. Gluski, who joined AES in 2000, most recently was an AES Executive Vice President and President of AES Latin America. Previously, he held business leadership positions in Chile and Venezuela. Prior to AES, Dr. Gluski worked in executive positions in multilateral and financial institutions and in private utilities.  He earned a PhD in Economics from the University of Virginia, an MA in Economics from the University of Virginia and a BA from Wake Forest University, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa..
"As we continue to grow our company into new areas, it is critical that we maintain our focus on our existing operating businesses," Mr. Hanrahan said.  "Andres has played a key role in AES's overall success and in Latin America in particular. He led our growth initiatives in key markets, including Chile and Panama, and completed the restructuring and refinancing of our Latin American businesses. Andres has the broad experience needed to help us achieve the company's long-term goals in the new position of Chief Operating Officer. "
About AES
AES is one of the world's largest global power companies, with 2005 revenues of $11 billion. With operations in 26 countries on five continents, AES's generation and distribution facilities have the capacity to serve 100 million people worldwide. Our 14 regulated utilities amassed 2005 annual sales of over 82,000 GWh and our 123 generation
facilities have the capacity to generate more than 44,000 megawatts. Our global workforce of 30,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's growing power needs. To learn more about AES, please visit www.aes.com or contact AES media relations at
media@aes.com.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES's current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our contract generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investors and other interested parties are encouraged to read AES's filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES's business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


