FILE:AES/AES-8K-20080205070310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 1.01               Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On February 4, 2008, The AES Corporation ("AES" or the "Company") entered into a stock purchase agreement with Kazakhmys PLC ("Kazakhmys").  Under the agreement, AES is selling to Kazakhmys two indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries with operations in Kazakhstan, AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP, which generated total revenues of approximately $185 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
AES will receive consideration of approximately $1.1 billion at closing and will have the opportunity, over three years, to receive additional consideration of up to $381 million under earn-out provisions, a management fee and a capital expenditure program bonus, for a total consideration of up to $1.48 billion. The management agreement, also entered into on February 4, 2008, runs through December 2010.
 
The Company is retaining its facilities in Eastern Kazahkstan, including Sogrinsk CHP, Ust-Kamenogorsk CHP; its facilities under concession agreements, Shulbinsk HPP and Ust-Kamenogorsk HPP; and its trading business, Nurenergoservice L.L.P.  The previously disclosed litigation asserted against these businesses remains pending.
 
The sale is subject to certain regulatory and third-party approvals and to customary purchase price adjustments.  The transaction is expected to close by the end of the second quarter of 2008.
 
Item 7.01               Regulation FD Disclosure
 
2007 Guidance
 
The Company has identified a non-cash impairment of AES Uruguaiana ("Uruguaiana"), a 639 MW gas-fired facility in Brazil in which the Company indirectly owns a 46% interest.  The Company has not completed its calculation of the impairment, which was identified during the year-end closing process for 2007, and relates to curtailment of natural gas supplies in the Brazil market which is forcing Uruguaiana to purchase electricity via bilateral agreements and on the spot market to satisfy its commitments.   For the year ended December 31, 2007, Uruguaiana is expected to contribute losses to the Company's net income from continuing operations of approximately $30 million (unaudited), excluding the impairment, of which approximately $12 million (unaudited) is already included in the financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2007.  The Company's ownership adjusted interest in the net book value of Uruguaiana as of December 31, 2007 is approximately $162 million (unaudited), excluding the impairment. The impairment is expected to have a significant impact on 2007 GAAP earnings per diluted share, but no impact on 2007 operating cash flow guidance or 2007 adjusted earnings per share guidance.
 
In addition, the Company is continuing to review other matters that currently are not expected to impact 2007 operating cash flow guidance but may impact 2007 GAAP earnings per share, including a potential impairment of prepaid carbon emission credits ("CERs") from AgCert, a United Kingdom company that produces CERs, related to AgCert's potential inability to deliver the CERs or to repay the sums advanced. The CERs are classified on the Company's balance sheet as non-current assets with a net book value of $52 million (unaudited) as of December 31, 2007. The Company is also reviewing a potential non-recurring deferred tax charge related to a change in Mexican tax laws in the fourth quarter of 2007 of potentially up to approximately $72 million.  The impact on 2007 GAAP earnings per share of these potential charges, if any, is not yet known.  If the Company does record additional charges relating to these items, only the potential non-recurring deferred tax charges related to the change in Mexican tax laws would impact adjusted earnings per share.
 
Because the Company has not completed its year-end financial close, additional review and analysis may cause us to identify additional factors that affect guidance or to reevaluate currently identified factors.  The Company intends to announce its final 2007 results once the year-end closing process is complete.
2008 and Long-Term Guidance
 
In view of the disposition of AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP, the Company is reviewing its budget, 2008 guidance and long-term guidance.  The Company anticipates updating its guidance after it announces its 2007 results.
 
The information above is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
Item 8.01               Other Events
 
The Company is working to complete its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007.  In connection with this process, the Company continues its efforts to remediate the material weaknesses that were previously disclosed in the Company's Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2006 and subsequent interim reports.   As a result of these remediation efforts, the Company has identified certain non-cash adjustments to its prior period financial statements.  Because the Company has not completed these efforts, no final conclusions can be presented regarding the materiality of any adjustments.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
99.1         Press Release, dated February 5, 2008, of The AES Corporation
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Media Contact
Robin Pence 703 682 6552
Investor Contact
Ahmed Pasha 703 682 6451
 
AES To Sell Interests In Kazakhstan Power Plant And Coal Mine
 
Will Maintain Ownership and Operation of Generation and Distribution Assets in Eastern Kazakhstan
 
Arlington, VA, February 5, 2008  The AES Corporation (NYSE:AES) today announced an agreement to sell its interests in the AES Ekibastuz power plant and Maikuben West coal mine in Kazakhstan to Kazakhmys PLC, Kazakhstan's largest producer of copper and one of the leading copper producers in the world.  AES will maintain its ownership and operation of its other facilities located in Eastern Kazakhstan, which include thermal and hydro generation capacity of approximately 2,688 MW and a distribution business with over 400,000 customers.
 
AES will receive consideration of $1.1 billion at closing and will have the opportunity to receive, over three years, additional consideration of up to $381 million under earn-out provisions, a management fee and a capital expenditure program bonus, for a total consideration of up to $1.48 billion. The management agreement duration is three years and runs through December 2010.
 
"This transaction is a good example of how active portfolio management can create opportunities to increase value for our shareholders," said Paul Hanrahan, AES President and Chief Executive Officer.  "At the same time, we will maintain an important presence in the growing Kazakhstan market."
 
Ekibastuz, a coal-fired power plant with current available capacity of approximately 2,250 MW, and Maikuben, a coal mine, are both located in Northern Kazakhstan.  AES acquired its initial interests in Ekibastuz and Maikuben in 1996 and 2001, respectively.  Since 1996, AES has invested over $200 million in modernization programs bringing into operation more than 2,000 MW of generation capacity at Ekibastuz. 
 
The sale is subject to certain regulatory and third-party approvals and to customary purchase price adjustments.  The transaction is expected to close in second quarter 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kazakhmys has its corporate headquarters in London and operations in Kazakhstan and Germany. 
 
About AES
 
AES is one of the world's largest global power companies, with 2006 revenues of $11.6 billion.  With operations in 28 countries on five continents, AES's generation and distribution facilities have the capacity to serve 100 million people worldwide.  Our 13 regulated utilities amass annual sales of over 73,000 GWh and our 121 generation facilities have the capacity to generate approximately 43,000 megawatts.  Our global workforce of 30,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's growing power needs. To learn more about AES, please visit www.aes.com or contact AES media relations at media@aes.com.
 
Safe Harbor Disclosure
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance.  Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES's current expectations based on reasonable assumptions.  Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions.  These assumptions include, but are not limited to, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
 
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K/A.  Readers are encouraged to read AES's filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES's business.  AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


