FILE:AES/AES-8K-20091106111806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 6, 2009, The AES Corporation ("AES") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 6, 2009, AES issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and updated its 2009 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
2010-2011 Guidance
On November 6, 2009, the Company announced that it entered into a binding Stock Purchase Agreement with China Investment Corporation (CIC), pursuant to which the Company will sell 125.5 million shares to CIC for $12.60 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $1.6 billion, subject to customary closing conditions. The Company has not determined the use of proceeds for the transaction, however, the Company may elect to use $1.0 to 1.5 billion of these proceeds to temporarily pay down recourse debt in 2010, pending investments in other projects. The effect of these transactions, without any assumed contributions from the remaining proceeds, is expected to be dilutive to 2010 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by approximately $0.12. For adjusted earnings per share, adjustment factors include $0.04 to 0.06 related to estimated costs associated with the early retirement of debt, offset by approximately $0.01 related to a difference in the dilutive impact of the additional shares. Based on these adjustment factors, these transactions would be expected to be dilutive to 2010 adjusted earnings per share by $0.07 to 0.09. Adjusted earnings per share is a non-GAAP financial measure which is reconciled in the preceding sentences. The definition of adjusted earnings per share is set forth below.
The Company will update its 2010 and 2011 guidance on its fourth quarter earnings conference call. The Company intends to file a Form 8-K under Items 1.01 and 3.02 with further information on the transaction, within four business days of the execution of the Stock Purchase Agreement, in accordance with SEC requirements.
Adjusted earnings per share (a non-GAAP financial measure) is defined as diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding gains or losses of the consolidated entity due to (a) mark-to-market amounts related to FAS 133 derivative transactions, (b) unrealized foreign currency gains or losses, (c) significant gains or losses due to dispositions and acquisitions of business interests, (d) significant losses due to impairments, and (e) costs due to the early retirement of debt. AES believes that adjusted earnings per share better reflects the underlying business performance of the Company, and is considered in the Company's internal evaluation of financial performance. Factors in this determination include the variability due to mark-to-market gains or losses related to derivative transactions, currency gains or losses, losses due to impairments and strategic decisions to dispose or acquire business interests or retired debt which affect results in a given period or periods. Adjusted earnings per share should not be construed as an alternative to earnings per share, which is determined in accordance with GAAP.
Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES's current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency pricing, continued normal or better levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth from investments at investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience. For additional assumptions see the Appendix to this presentation.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including but not limited to the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as our other SEC filings. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Meghan Dotter 703 682 6670
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703 682 6451
Investor Contact:
AES Reports Strong Third Quarter Results and Increases 2009 Full Year Earnings and Free Cash Flow Guidance
 
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009.
ARLINGTON, VA, November 6, 2009 
"The strong quarterly performance was driven by higher margins at our generation businesses in Chile and in the Philippines. Contributions from these businesses helped us offset weak results at our North American operations which were negatively impacted by lower volumes. Based on our year-to-date results, we are increasing our 2009 adjusted earnings and free cash flow guidance," said Paul Hanrahan, AES President and Chief Executive Officer. "We also continued to make good progress on our 3,500 MW construction program and have now completed 808 MW of which 95% is contracted under long-term contracts. On the development front, strong regulatory support for renewable energy and the growing need for power in various high growth markets continue to provide us with attractive opportunities that will drive our growth beyond 2011."
:
Third Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights
During the quarter, AES benefited from improved operating performance at its generation businesses in Chile and the Philippines as well as its Brazilian utilities. The Company's focus on improvements in working capital and continued efforts to lower operating expenses also
 
 
contributed to the third quarter results. These trends helped offset unfavorable foreign currency impacts, as well as reduced demand and lower wholesale prices in North America.
Results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 include the following:
 
Key drivers of the third quarter results include (comparison of Q3 2009 vs. Q3 2008):
of increases in tariff rates in Brazil, reflecting the recovery of energy purchases that were passed through to customers.
 
See Appendix for more detail.
:
Year-to-Date 2009 Financial Highlights (comparison of Q3 2009 YTD vs. Q3 2008 YTD)
The Company's continued focus on improving operations, lowering corporate overhead and improving working capital contributed to the year-to-date results. In particular, the Company benefited from improved operating performance at its generation businesses in Chile and Asia, as well as its businesses in Brazil. These improvements helped offset unfavorable foreign currency impacts as well as reduced demand and lower wholesale prices in North America.
Key drivers of the year-to-date results include:
 
unfavorable net mark-to-market derivative adjustments at North America subsidiaries; unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates; and loss of the contribution from the Northern Kazakhstan businesses sold in 2008. These decreases were offset in part by improved operations in Chile and the Philippines.
 
See Appendix for more detail.
:
Other Key Highlights
 
Huanghua I in China, and 4 MW of Innovent wind projects in France. The Company has completed 808 MW, or approximately 23 percent of its 3,500 MW construction program.
2009 Guidance
Based on the Company's performance through the first nine months of 2009 and the current outlook for the remainder of the year, the Company is increasing its full year earnings guidance and Proportional Cash Flow guidance.
Summary of key changes made to 2009 full year guidance includes:
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Proportional Operating Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow and Parent Company Liquidity, as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Segment Information, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information and 2009 Financial Guidance.
 
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 500 global power company with generation and distribution businesses. Through our diverse portfolio of thermal and renewable fuel sources, we provide affordable and sustainable energy to 29 countries. Our workforce of 25,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2008 revenues were $16 billion and we own and manage $35 billion in total assets. named AES to its 2009 "BW 50 Best Performers" list. To learn more, please visit .
BusinessWeek
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental
 
growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2009 REVISED FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(
1)
 
 
These assumptions include: (i) the Company's economic interest has been calculated based on a blended rate for each consolidated business when such business represents multiple legal entities; (ii) the Company's economic interest may differ from the percentage implied by the recorded net income or loss attributable to noncontrolling interests or dividends paid during a given period; (iii) the Company's economic interest for entities accounted for using the hypothetical liquidation at book value method is 100%; (iv) individual operating performance of the Company's equity method investments is not reflected and (v) all intercompany amounts have been excluded as applicable.


