FILE:AES/AES-8K-20090507204301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 8, 2009, The AES Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
(f) Bonus Payment: On March 2, 2009, The AES Corporation filed its 2009 annual proxy statement and disclosed that Mr. Mark Woodruff, Executive Vice President and a named executive officer, was entitled to an additional bonus payment related to the acquisition of the TEG TEP project in Mexico. Since the amount of the bonus could not be calculated at the time the proxy statement was filed, the Company indicated in the proxy statement that a Form 8-K would be filed to provide the amount of the bonus when calculable in April 2009.
The Company has determined that the bonus payment earned by Mr. Woodruff in 2008 relating to the Company's acquisition of TEG TEP is $320,775, which shall be payable in May of 2009. After inclusion of this payment, Mr. Woodruff's total compensation for 2008 is $1,877,641.
 
On May 8, 2009, The AES Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and updated its 2009 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES's current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency pricing, continued normal or better levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth from investments at investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience. For additional assumptions see the Appendix to this presentation.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including but not limited to the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as our other SEC filings. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Meghan Dotter 703 682 6670
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703 682 6451
Investor Contact:
AES Reports Solid First Quarter Results and Reaffirms Full Year 2009 Earnings, Subsidiary Distributions and Proportional Free Cash Flow Guidance
 
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported solid first quarter earnings. Significant contributions came from the Latin America generation businesses and North America utilities, as well as a performance incentive related to the management of Northern Kazakhstan businesses.
ARLINGTON, VA, May 8, 2009 
"We are pleased that AES's share of free cash flow increased by $40 million as a result of improvements in working capital and expense reductions. Accordingly, we are reaffirming our 2009 earnings and proportional cash flow guidance. However, like other global companies, we are not immune to volatile foreign exchange rates or lower market prices, which will have an impact on working capital in Brazil and the Dominican Republic that will decrease the 2009 consolidated cash flow range by five percent," said Paul Hanrahan, President and Chief Executive Officer. "With more than 95 percent of our more than 3,000 MW construction program contracted under long-term agreements and fully financed, we expect these projects to significantly contribute to our cash flow over the next three years."
In addition, AES undertook a series of capital structure transactions in the quarter which will improve liquidity through 2010 and beyond. Regarding these initiatives, Victoria D. Harker, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "Over the past several months, we continued to enhance our corporate liquidity through refinancings of $1.3 billion, which extended our debt maturities well beyond 2009. This included a renegotiation of our senior secured credit facility and a $535 million bond offering. These proceeds were used to reduce our $600 million unsecured credit facility, which will no longer be needed. At the subsidiary level, AES Gener's $196 million bond offering provided the funds needed to complete the construction projects in Chile."
 
 
Results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 include the following:
 
:
First Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights (comparison of Q1 2009 vs. Q1 2008)
Quarter over quarter, the Company experienced foreign currency exchange losses of $130 million, and a $63 million margin reduction due to lower electricity prices and volume at several generation businesses. In addition, as a result of the sale of our Northern Kazakhstan businesses in 2008, there was a $26 million reduction of gross margin. However, there were several offsetting improvements from Latin America generation and North America utilities, as well as reduced operating expenses overall. Key factors were:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
Key 2009 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2009 Guidance
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Proportional Operating Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow and Parent Company Liquidity, as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Segment Information, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information, 2009 Financial Guidance.
Conference Call Information
AES will host a conference call on Friday, May 8, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Interested parties may listen to the teleconference by dialing 1-866-229-5768
 
 
at least ten minutes before the start of the call. International callers should dial +1-973-200-3007. The reservation number for this call is 98843943. Internet access to the conference call and presentation materials will be available on the AES website at by selecting "Investor Information" and then "Quarterly Financial Reports."
www.aes.com
A telephonic replay of the call will be available from approximately 1:00 p.m. EDT on Friday, May 8, 2009 through Friday, May 29, 2009. Callers in the U.S. please dial 1-800-642-1687. International callers should dial +1-706-645-9291. The system will ask for a reservation number; please enter 98843943 followed by the pound key (#). A webcast replay, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, will be accessible at beginning shortly after the completion of the call.
www.aes.com
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 500 global power company with generation and distribution businesses. Through our diverse portfolio of thermal and renewable fuel sources, we provide affordable and sustainable energy to 29 countries. Our workforce of 25,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2008 revenues were $16 billion and we own and manage $35 billion in total assets. named AES to its 2009 "BW 50" list. To learn more, please visit .
BusinessWeek
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES's current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES's filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES's business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parent only data: last four quarters
($ in millions)
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2009 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
 
 
These assumptions include: (i) the Company's economic interest has been calculated based on a blended rate for each consolidated business when such business represents multiple legal entities; (ii) the Company's economic interest may differ from the percentage implied by the recorded net income or loss attributable to noncontrolling interests or dividends paid during a given period; (iii) the Company's economic interest for entities accounted for using the hypothetical liquidation at book value method is 100%; (iv) individual operating performance of the Company's equity method investments is not reflected and (v) all intercompany amounts have been excluded as applicable.


