FILE:AES/AES-8K-20090807060939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 7, 2009, The AES Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
On August 7, 2009, The AES Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 and updated its 2009 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES's current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency pricing, continued normal or better levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth from investments at investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience. For additional assumptions see the Appendix to this presentation.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including but not limited to the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as our other SEC filings. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Meghan Dotter 703 682 6670
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703 682 6451
Investor Contact:
AES Reports Second Quarter Results and Increases Full Year Earnings Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported its second quarter results, with Adjusted Earnings Per Share increased by $0.03 to $0.28 and Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations decreased by $0.86 to $0.45. Proportional Free Cash Flow increased by $313 million to $190 million and Consolidated Free Cash Flow increased by $237 million to $366 million. Consolidated Cash Flow from Operating Activities increased by $181 million to $495 million.
ARLINGTON, VA, August 7, 2009 
During the quarter, the Company benefited from its geographic and fuel diversity, with strong performance in Chile offsetting reduced demand and lower wholesale prices in North America. The Company's focus on improved operations, with increased production in Chile and the Philippines, reduced operating expenses and improved working capital also contributed to the quarterly results. In addition, the Company also benefited from a favorable settlement of a legal claim at a European affiliate and a lower effective tax rate, primarily related to a U.S. subsidiary tax restructuring.
"We are pleased with our performance during the first six months of the year, and we continue to make progress with our new businesses. Operational improvements at our Masinloc facility in the Philippines helped generate its first quarterly profit since last year's acquisition. We also completed construction on 374 MW, including Guacolda 3, the first coal-fired facility to be brought on-line in Chile in 12 years, as well as three other facilities in Chile, Northern Ireland and France," said Paul Hanrahan, President and Chief Executive Officer. "On the development front, the financial closings of the Armenia Mountain and St. Patrick wind projects demonstrate the strength of our renewables pipeline, an area that continues to present attractive investment opportunities."
 
In the U.S., the Company closed a $221 million long-term non-recourse financing of the 101 MW Armenia Mountain wind project in July. In France, the Company closed a 44 million financing for the 35 MW St. Patrick wind project in the second quarter.
"Based on our results for the first six months of 2009, we are increasing 2009 Adjusted Earnings Per Share guidance from a range of $0.97-$1.07 to a range of $1.05-$1.10. We are also raising the lower end of our Proportional Free Cash Flow guidance from $650 million to $750 million, resulting in a revised guidance range of $750 million to $850 million for 2009," said Victoria D. Harker, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 include the following:
 
 
Second Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights (comparison of Q2 2009 vs. Q2 2008):
Key drivers of the second quarter results described above include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Appendix for more detail
Year-to-Date 2009 Financial Highlights (comparison of Q2 YTD 2009 vs. Q2 YTD 2008):
Key drivers of the year-to-date results described above include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Key Highlights:
 
 
 
 
2009 Guidance
Based on the Company's performance through the first half of 2009 and the current outlook for the remainder of the year, the Company is increasing its full year earnings guidance and the midpoint of its cash flow guidance. The revised guidance is based on currency and commodity movements which have had a net $0.05 favorable impact on Adjusted Earnings Per Share guidance, a lower effective tax rate which has a $0.03 favorable impact, and a $0.05 gain related to settlement of a claim recorded at one of its European affiliates during the second quarter of 2009. These favorable impacts are projected to be offset by unfavorable impacts of $0.05-$0.10 related to outages and lower wholesale prices in North America, lower volume and realized foreign currency transaction losses projected to be incurred in remainder of the year.
 
Summary of some of the key 2008 guidance elements include:
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Proportional Operating Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow and Parent Company Liquidity, as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Segment Information, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information and 2009 Financial Guidance.
Conference Call Information
AES will host a conference call on Friday, August 7, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Interested parties may listen to the teleconference by dialing 1-866-229-5768 at least ten minutes before the start of the call. International callers should dial +1-973-200-3007. The reservation number for this call is 23935807. Internet access to the conference call and presentation materials will be available on the AES website at by selecting "Investor Information" and then "Quarterly Financial Reports."
www.aes.com
A telephonic replay of the call will be available from approximately 1:00 p.m. EDT on Friday, August 7, 2009 through Friday, August 28, 2009. Callers in the U.S. please dial 1-800-642-1687. International callers should dial +1-706-645-9291. The system will ask for a reservation number; please enter 23935807 followed by the pound key (#). A webcast replay, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, will be accessible at beginning shortly after the completion of the call.
www.aes.com
 
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 500 global power company with generation and distribution businesses. Through our diverse portfolio of thermal and renewable fuel sources, we provide affordable and sustainable energy to 29 countries. Our workforce of 25,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2008 revenues were $16 billion and we own and manage $35 billion in total assets. named AES to its 2009 "BW 50 Best Performers" list. To learn more, please visit .
BusinessWeek
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES's current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES's filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES's business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parent only data: last four quarters
($ in millions)
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2009 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(
1)
 
 


