FILE:AES/AES-8K-20100225215249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 26, 2010, The AES Corporation ("AES") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
On February 26, 2010, AES issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and updated its 2010-2011 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES's current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency pricing, continued normal or better levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth from investments at investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including but not limited to the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, as well as our other SEC filings. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Meghan Dotter 703 682 6670
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703 682 6451
Investor Contact:
AES Meets Full Year 2009 Adjusted Earnings Per Share and Proportional Free Cash Flow Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported results for the full year 2009, during which the Company benefited from the diversity of its portfolio across markets and energy sources. Operational improvements in Chile, the Philippines and Brazil helped offset unfavorable foreign currency impacts as well as reduced demand and lower electricity prices in North America.
ARLINGTON, VA, February 26, 2010 
"In 2009, we focused on generating liquidity for our pipeline of growth investments and on improving the cash flows of our operating businesses. We met our full year guidance for proportional free cash flow and adjusted earnings per share and generated an all-time record of $1.25 billion in distributions from subsidiaries. Through February of 2010, we also brought approximately 1,300 MW of core power and renewable projects into commercial operation, the majority of which are in countries where there is a stronger pace of economic recovery, notably in Latin America and the Middle East," said Paul Hanrahan, President and Chief Executive Officer of AES Corporation. "Throughout the year, we also continued moving our business development activities forward, creating multiple options to invest in both our core power business in high growth regions as well as renewable power projects globally, which will drive our growth beyond 2011."
Fourth Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights:
During the quarter, the Company benefited from improved operating performance at its generation business in the Philippines and a lower effective tax rate, in part, because of non-taxable earnings at its Brazilian businesses. In addition, foreign currencies strengthened against the U.S. Dollar. These factors helped offset reduced demand and lower electricity prices in North America.
 
Results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009 include the following:
 
Key drivers of the Fourth Quarter results include (comparison of Q4 2009 vs. Q4 2008):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Appendix for more detail.
2009 Financial Highlights:
The Company continued to benefit from the diversity of its portfolio across markets and energy sources. The Company's continued efforts to improve operations, reduce fixed costs and improve working capital contributed to the favorable year-over-year results. The Company's operational improvements were most notable at its generation businesses in Chile and Asia, as well as its businesses in Brazil. These improvements helped offset unfavorable foreign currency impacts as well as reduced demand and lower electricity prices in North America. The Company also benefited from a lower effective tax rate.
Key drivers of the Full Year results include (comparison of FY 2009 vs. FY 2008):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Appendix for more detail.
 
Other Fourth Quarter Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
Other Full Year Highlights:
 
 
2010-2011 Guidance:
The Company updated guidance for the years 2010 and 2011. The revised guidance is based on foreign exchange and commodity forward prices as of December 31, 2009. The guidance does not include the potential issuance of 125.5 million shares of common stock as a result of the previously announced equity sale agreement with CIC.
When compared to 2009, guidance for both 2010 and 2011 benefit from (i) projected contributions of new businesses, (ii) favorable foreign currency rates, and (iii) year -over -year improvements in economic outlook in locations such as Brazil. These improvements are offset by (i) gains in 2009 related to the performance incentive bonus for the management of Kazakhstan businesses sold in 2008, (ii) a gain related to the settlement of a claim at a European subsidiary (iii) lower electricity prices at the Company's merchant businesses, primarily in New York and Hungary, (iv) a planned step down in capacity payments related to the recovery of capital expenditures on pollution control equipment at the Company's Kilroot facility in the United Kingdom and (v) an estimated increase in the effective tax rate to the low 30s percentage range in 2010 and to the mid 30s percentage range in 2011, generally due to the absence of certain discrete items that benefited the rate in 2009.
 
Relative to prior guidance, both 2010 and 2011 benefit from favorable foreign currency rates and improved operations. These improvements are offset by (i) lower electricity prices at the Company's merchant businesses, primarily in New York and Hungary, (ii) higher business development expenses, (iii) a non-cash charge related to taxes for the hypothetical liquidation of non-controlling interests at several of the Company's wind generation businesses and lower than projected wind generation in North America, and (iv) the sale of Oman and Pakistan facilities.
Key elements of the updated guidance include:
 
See Appendix for a complete list of the revised guidance elements and key assumptions.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures in the Appendix for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Proportional Operating Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow and Parent Company Liquidity, as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Segment Information, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information, 2010 Financial Guidance and 2011 Financial Guidance.
Conference Call Information
AES will host a conference call on Friday, February 26, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST). Interested parties may listen to the teleconference by dialing 1-888-989-3379 at least ten minutes before the start of the call. International callers should dial +1-312-470-7009. The participant passcode for this call is 22610. Internet access to the conference call and presentation materials will be available on the AES website at by selecting "Investor Information" and then "Quarterly Financial Reports." From time to time, the Company posts new and/or revised materials on its website, and anticipates doing so in connection with this media event.
www.aes.com
A telephonic replay of the call will be available from approximately 1:00 p.m. EST on Friday, February 26, 2010 through Friday, March 19, 2010. Callers in the U.S. please dial 1-800-513-1169. International callers should dial +1-203-369-3809. The system will ask for a passcode; please enter 22610. A webcast replay, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, will be accessible at beginning shortly after the completion of the call.
www.aes.com
 
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 500 global power company with generation and distribution businesses. Through our diverse portfolio of thermal and renewable fuel sources, we provide affordable and sustainable energy to 29 countries. Our workforce of 27,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2009 revenues were $14 billion and we own and manage $40 billion in total assets. To learn more, please visit .
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on or about February 25, 2010 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. Stockholders may also obtain a copy by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parent only data: last four quarters
($ in millions)
 
Parent only data: quarterly
($ in millions)
 
Parent Company Liquidity
(2)
($ in millions)
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2010 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(
1)
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2011 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(
1)
 
 


