FILE:AES/AES-8K-20100506210902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 7, 2010, The AES Corporation ("AES") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
On May 7, 2010, AES issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 and updated its 2010 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency pricing, continued normal or better levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth from investments at investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") including but not limited to the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, as well as our other SEC filings. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Meghan Dotter 703 682 6670
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703 682 6451
Investor Contact:
AES Reports First Quarter 2010 Results of $0.26 Adjusted EPS and $335 Million Proportional Free Cash Flow
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations of $0.27 and Consolidated Operating Cash Flow of $684 Million
 
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported results for the first quarter of 2010. The Company's results were driven by improved operating performance at its generation business in the Philippines, higher volumes at its utilities in Brazil, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. These contributions helped offset lower energy prices and volumes in North America. AES also benefited from improved collections at several of its Latin America businesses, primarily in Brazil and the Dominican Republic.
ARLINGTON, VA, May 7, 2010 
"Our year is off to a good start, with proportional free cash flow increasing by approximately 70 percent over the first quarter of last year. We have clearly seen strong performance in our businesses in Asia and Brazil, which effectively offset the shortfalls in our North America results that were related to low gas prices and weak demand growth. Based on our performance to date and our projections for the rest of the year, our geographic diversification allows us to maintain our guidance for cash flow and earnings, adjusted for the near-term impacts of the recent equity sale to the China Investment Corporation," said Paul Hanrahan, AES President and Chief Executive Officer.
"We also achieved significant milestones in our 9,000 MW advanced stage development pipeline. Consistent with our growth plan, we are pursuing projects where there is increasing demand for electricity and where there are favorable incentives for renewables. In March, for example, we announced the expansion of our European renewables platform by acquiring 700 MW of wind development pipeline in Poland and the U.K., followed by a $234 million financing for a 43 MW AES Solar facility in Italy. More recently, we also signed a Power Purchase Agreement for the 1,200 MW Mong Duong II coal plant in Vietnam, where electricity demand is projected to grow 14 percent annually."
 
Table 1: Results for First Quarter 2010 and Updated 2010 Guidance
 
Key drivers of the First Quarter results include (comparison of Q1 2010 vs. Q1 2009):
During the quarter, AES benefited from improved operating performance at its generation businesses in Asia, increased volumes at its utilities in Brazil, as well as favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in Brazil. These benefits were offset by: (i) a gain of $80 million, or $0.12 per share, recognized in the first quarter of 2009 from the contract incentive payment associated with the management of the Northern Kazakhstan businesses; (ii) unfavorable power prices and volumes in North America; and (iii) a higher effective tax rate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q1 2010 as compared to Q1 2009
 
See Appendix for more detail.
2010 Guidance
AES maintained all of its 2010 cash flow and gross margin guidance elements, and updated its 2010 EPS guidance in order to reflect: (i) the issuance of 125.5 million common shares to China Investment Corporation for $1.58 billion, which increased the projected full year diluted weighted average shares outstanding by 99 million to 772 million shares; (ii) that a portion of the China Investment Corporation proceeds were used to pre-pay approximately $500 million of debt; and (iii) the announced sale of the Ras Laffan business in Qatar, which as of the second quarter will be reported as a discontinued operation, including prior periods.
The Company's 2010 guidance has also been updated to reflect foreign exchange and commodity forward prices as of March 31, 2010. AES issued its previous guidance based on foreign exchange and commodity forward prices as of December 31, 2009. Since that time, forward prices changed unfavorably with approximately $0.06 negative impact on Adjusted EPS, consistent with the Company's previously disclosed sensitivities. AES was able to offset these unfavorable market moves with improved operating performance. Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations was impacted by the same factors discussed above, plus $0.02 of make-whole premiums and deferred financing costs associated with debt repurchases noted above.
Table 3: Key Elements of Updated 2010 Guidance vs. Prior Guidance
 
 
Note: Previous guidance (as of February 26, 2010) was based on 673 million diluted weighted average shares outstanding, versus updated guidance (as of May 7, 2010) which was based on 772 million diluted weighted average shares outstanding. See Appendix for definitions and reconciliations and for a complete list of the updated 2010 guidance elements.
Other Key Highlights:
April
 
 
 
March
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Proportional Operating Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Segment Information, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information and 2010 Financial Guidance.
 
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 500 global power company with generation and distribution businesses. Through our diverse portfolio of thermal and renewable fuel sources, we provide affordable and sustainable energy to 29 countries. Our workforce of 27,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2009 revenues were $14 billion and we own and manage $40 billion in total assets. To learn more, please visit .
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated on or about February 25, 2010 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may be obtained by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parent only data: last four quarters
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2010 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(1)
 
 


