FILE:AES/AES-8K-20100806061056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 6, 2010, The AES Corporation ("AES") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On August 6, 2010, AES issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010 and updated its 2010 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency pricing, continued normal or better levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth from investments at investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") including but not limited to the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, as well as our other SEC filings. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Meghan Dotter 703 682 6670
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703 682 6451
Investor Contact:
AES Reports Strong Second Quarter Results of $0.23 Adjusted EPS and $232 Million Proportional Free Cash Flow, Lifted By Latin America and Asia Demand
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations of $0.17 and Consolidated Operating Cash Flow of $747 Million
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported results for the second quarter of 2010. The Company's results were driven by improved operating performance at its generation businesses in Asia, higher volumes and prices in Latin America as well as favorable foreign currency exchange rates. These contributions were offset by lower margins in North America and a higher effective tax rate due to the gain of $115 million on the sale of the Company's indirect investment in CEMIG, a Brazilian utility.
ARLINGTON, Va, August 6, 2010 
"We continued to see strong electric power demand growth in Latin America and Asia, which contributed positively to our quarterly results," said Paul Hanrahan, AES President and Chief Executive Officer. "Throughout the quarter, we also capitalized on our strong liquidity position by investing in new businesses, entering into agreements to acquire (i) the 1,246 MW Ballylumford natural gas facility in Northern Ireland and (ii) an ownership interest in 241 MW of small hydroelectric plants in China. Our strong cash position also allowed us to commence a share repurchase program to buy back a limited amount of our stock at attractive prices.
Table 1: Results for Second Quarter 2010, Year-To-Date 2010 and Full Year 2010 Guidance
 
Key drivers of the second quarter results include (comparison of Q2 2010 vs. Q2 2009):
During the quarter, AES benefited from higher volumes and rates at its generation businesses in Asia and at its utilities in Latin America. Additionally, higher volumes at its generation businesses in Latin America and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in Brazil, contributed to the quarterly results. This improved performance was driven by both economic growth, as well as operational factors, such as higher plant availability and a reduction in losses at the Company's Latin American utilities. These benefits were offset by unfavorable margins in New York and a higher effective tax rate.
Earnings Per Share (EPS) from continuing operations in both 2009 and 2010 were affected by certain significant non-operational items. The second quarter of 2009 benefited a total of $0.11 because of the following: (i) a $0.05 after-tax gain resulting from a claim settlement at one of the Company's European subsidiaries; and (ii) a lower effective tax rate, primarily related to a U.S. subsidiary tax restructuring that improved earnings per share by $0.06. In the second quarter of 2010 EPS increased $0.01 as a result of several factors: (i) a $0.06 gain from the sale of the Company's indirect investment in CEMIG; (ii) $0.03 of realized foreign exchange transaction losses on a Euro-denominated loan that was repaid in the quarter; and (iii) a $0.02 loss on the write-off of previously capitalized costs that were incurred in connection with a potential transaction involving the Company's wind business. The costs were written off upon the expiration of the letter of intent with China Investment Corporation (CIC) on June 30, 2010. The Company and CIC subsequently announced in a July 2, 2010 press release that they may resume discussions as additional clarity develops surrounding renewable energy legislation in the U.S.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q2 2010 as compared to Q2 2009
 
 
See Appendix for more detail.
Key drivers of the year-to-date 2010 results include (comparison of Q2 YTD 2010 vs. Q2 YTD 2009):
During the first six months of 2010, AES benefited from higher volumes and rates at its generation businesses in Asia and at its utilities in Latin America. Additionally, the Company benefited from higher volumes at its generation businesses in Latin America and from favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in Brazil. These benefits were offset by unfavorable margins in New York, higher fixed costs in Brazil and a higher effective tax rate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q2 YTD 2010 as compared to Q2 YTD 2009
 
 
See Appendix for more detail.
2010 Guidance
AES maintained all of its 2010 Cash Flow, Gross Margin and Adjusted EPS guidance elements. The Company updated its guidance for 2010 Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations to $0.80 to $0.85 from $0.83 to $0.88 (as of May 7, 2010) in order to reflect higher unrealized foreign currency transaction losses. For a complete list of 2010 guidance elements see Appendix.
:
Other Key Highlights
Second Quarter 2010
 
 
 
 
July and August, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Proportional Operating Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Segment Information, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information and 2010 Financial Guidance.
 
Conference Call Information
AES will host a conference call on Friday, August 6, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Interested parties may listen to the teleconference by dialing 1-888-566-7708 at least ten minutes before the start of the call. International callers should dial +1-517-308-9025. The participant passcode for this call is 8610. Internet access to the conference call and presentation materials will be available on the AES website at www.aes.com by selecting "Investor Information" and then "Quarterly Financial Reports."
A telephonic replay of the call will be available from approximately 1:00 p.m. EDT on Friday, August 6, 2010 through Friday, August 27, 2010. Callers in the U.S. please dial 1-800-331-1949. International callers should dial +1-402-220-0191. The system will ask for a passcode; please enter 8610. A webcast replay, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, will be accessible at www.aes.com beginning shortly after the completion of the call.
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 500 global power company with generation and distribution businesses. Through our diverse portfolio of thermal and renewable fuel sources, we provide affordable and sustainable energy to 30 countries. Our workforce of 27,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2009 revenues were $14 billion and we own and manage $40 billion in total assets. To learn more, please visit .
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated on or about February 25, 2010 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may be obtained by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parent only data: last four quarters
($ in millions)
 
 
 


