FILE:AES/AES-8K-20100426192833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)
Reapproval of The AES Corporation 2003 Long Term Compensation Plan, As Amended
On April 22, 2010, the stockholders of The AES Corporation ("AES" or the "Company") approved the Company's 2003 Long Term Compensation Plan (as amended, the "LTC Plan"). The principal amendments to the LTC Plan approved by the stockholders include the following:
 
 
 
Further information regarding the LTC Plan, including the amendments approved by the stockholders, is included in the Company's 2010 Annual Proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2010. The above description of amendments to the LTC Plan is qualified in its entirety by a copy of the LTC Plan, the AES Deferred Compensation Program for Directors (a subplan within the LTC Plan), and the Form of 2010 Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement pursuant to the LTC Plan (Outside Directors), which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1-10.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
Reapproval of The AES Corporation Performance Incentive Plan, As Amended
On April 22, 2010, the stockholders of AES reapproved the Company's Performance Incentive Plan (as amended, the "Incentive Plan"). Under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Incentive Plan must be reapproved by the stockholders at least once every five years. Since the Company was already seeking approval of the LTC Plan, the Company determined that it would also seek reapproval of the Incentive Plan in 2010. There were no material amendments made to the Incentive Plan in connection with the stockholder approval.
Further information regarding the Incentive Plan is included in the Company's 2010 Annual Proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2010. The above description is qualified in its entirety by a copy of the Incentive Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On April 22, 2010, the Company held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders in Arlington, Virginia.
The results of the matters voted on at the Annual Meeting are provided below.
: The election of ten directors to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the annual meeting in 2011 and until their respective successors are elected and qualified:
Proposal 1
 
There were no abstentions in Proposal 1.
: The reapproval of The AES Corporation 2003 Long Term Compensation Plan, As Amended:
Proposal 2
 
: The reapproval of The AES Corporation Performance Incentive Plan, As Amended:
Proposal 3
 
: The ratification of Ernst & Young LLP as AES' Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for the year 2010.
Proposal 4
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 26, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
1. PURPOSE. The 2003 Long Term Compensation Plan, as amended and restated, (the "") has been established by The AES Corporation (the "") to (a) reward Employees and Directors by means of appropriate incentives for achieving long-range Company goals; (b) provide incentive compensation opportunities that are competitive with those of other similar companies, (c) further match Employees' and Directors' financial interests with those of the Company's other Stockholders through compensation that is based on the Company's common stock and thereby enhance the long-term financial interest of the Company and its Affiliates, including through the growth in the value of the Company's equity and enhancement of long-term Stockholders return and (d) facilitate recruitment and retention of outstanding personnel eligible to participate in the Plan. The Plan as amended and restated is intended to comply with Section 409A.
Plan
Company
2. DEFINITIONS. Except as otherwise specified by the Committee in an Agreement, capitalized terms used in this Plan have the meanings set forth below. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, reference to the masculine gender shall include, when used, the feminine gender and any term used in the singular shall also include the plural.
(a) "" means (i) any Subsidiary of the Company, (ii) any entity or Person or group of Persons that, directly or through one or more intermediaries, is controlled by the Company and (iii) any entity or Person or group of Persons in which the Company has a significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee, including any Affiliates which become such after adoption of this Plan.
Affiliate
(b) "" means any written agreement, contract, policy, program or other instrument or document evidencing any Award granted under the Plan, which may, but need not, be executed or acknowledged by a Participant.
Agreement
(c) "" means any Option, award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, Other Stock-Based Award or Performance Award granted under the Plan.
Award
(d) "" or "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
Board of Directors
(e) "" means the occurrence of one or more of the following events: (i) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Company to any Person or group (as that term is used in Section 13(d) (3) of the Exchange Act) of Persons, (ii) a Person or group (as so defined) of Persons (other than management of the Company on the date of the adoption of this Plan or their Affiliates) shall have become the beneficial owner of more than 35% of the outstanding voting stock of the Company, or (iii) during any one-year period, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board (together with any new Director whose election or nomination was approved by a majority of the Directors then in office who were either Directors at the beginning of such period or who were previously so approved, but excluding under all circumstances any such new Director whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any individual, corporation, partnership or other entity or group) cease to constitute a majority of the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision of this Plan to the contrary, if an Award is subject to Section 409A (and not excepted therefrom) and a Change of Control is a distribution event for purposes of an Award, the foregoing definition of Change in Control shall be interpreted, administered and construed in manner necessary to ensure that the occurrence of any such event shall result in a
Change in Control
Change of Control only if such event qualifies as a change in the ownership or effective control of a corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation, as applicable, within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(5).
(f) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and in effect from time to time, or any successor statute.
Code
(g) "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or any successor committee thereto, and/or such other committee of the Board as is appointed or designated by the Board to administer the Plan (or any part hereof) or is otherwise identified in the Company's corporate governance documents as being responsible for determining the compensatory arrangements of certain Participants.
Committee
(h) "" means an individual who is expected by the Committee to be both (i) a "covered employee" as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code for the tax year of the Company with regard to which a deduction in respect of such person's Award would be allowed and (ii) the recipient of compensation (other than "qualified performance based compensation" as defined in Section 162(m)) in excess of $1,000,000 for such tax year.
Covered Person
(i) "" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Director
(j) "" means the disability of a Participant (i) such that the Participant is considered disabled under any long term disability plan of the Company, or (ii) as otherwise determined by the Committee.
Disability
(k) "" means any full-time or part-time employee (including an Officer or Director who is also an employee) of the Company or an Affiliate. "Employee" shall also include any individual or individuals to whom an offer of employment has been extended. References in this Plan to "employment" and related terms shall include the provision of services in any such capacity.
Employee
(l) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
(m) "" means the closing sale price of the Shares, as reported on the composite tape of New York Stock Exchange issues, or any other reporting system selected by the Committee on the relevant dates, or, if no sale of Shares is reported for that date, on the date or dates that the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, to be appropriate for purposes of the valuation.
Fair Market Value
(n) "" means an Option granted under Section 6 that meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto.
Incentive Stock Option
(o) "" means an Option granted under Section 6 that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
Non-Qualified Stock Option
(p) "" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
Option
(q) "" means any right granted under Section 8.
Other Stock-Based Award
(r) "" means an Employee or non-employee Director to whom an Award has been made.
Participant
(s) "" means an Award to a Covered Person under Section 9.
Performance Award
(t) "" means any individual, corporation, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
(u) "" means this 2003 Long Term Compensation Plan, as amended and in effect from time to time.
Plan
(v) "" means any Share underlying an Award granted under Section 7.
Restricted Stock
(w) "" means a contractual right underlying an Award granted under Section 7 that is denominated in Shares, which Unit represents a right to receive the value of a Share (or a percentage of such value, which percentage may be higher than 100%) upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and the applicable Agreement.
Restricted Stock Unit
(x) "" means retirement of a Participant (i) as defined under any retirement plan of the Company or any Affiliate which is qualified under Section 401 of the Code in which the Participant participates, or (ii) as determined by the Committee.
Retirement
(y) "" shall mean Section 409A of the Code, the regulations and other binding guidance promulgated thereunder.
Section 409A
(z) "" and "" shall mean the Participant's death, retirement or other termination of employment with the Company (including all persons treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code) that constitutes a "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A). For purposes hereof, the determination of controlled group members shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code; provided that the language "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears in Section 1563(a)(1),(2) and (3) of the Code and Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-2; provided, further, where legitimate business reasons exist (within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(h)(3)), the language "at least 20 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears.
Separation from Service
Separate from Service
(aa) "" means a key employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Company as determined in accordance with Section 409A and the procedures established by the Company.
Specified Employee
(bb) "" means a share of Stock.
Share
(cc) "" means the common stock, $.01 par value per share (as such par value may be adjusted from time to time), of the Company.
Stock
(dd) "" means any entity in which the Company owns or otherwise controls, directly or indirectly, stock or other ownership interests having the voting power to elect a majority of the Board, or other governing group having functions similar to a board of Directors, as determined by the Committee.
Subsidiary
(ee) "" means an Award granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, an outstanding award previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines.
Substitute Award
(ff) "" with respect to a Participant means the legal representative of an incompetent Participant and, if the Participant is deceased, the legal representative of the estate of the Participant or the person or persons who may, by bequest or inheritance, or under the terms of an Award or of forms submitted by the Participant to the Committee, acquire the right to receive cash and/or Shares issuable in satisfaction of an Award.
Successor
3. ADMINISTRATION. Subject to the provisions of the plan, the authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan shall be vested in the Committee; provided, however, that the Board (and/or such other committee designated by the Board shall approve and/or ratify any Awards to the Company's non-employee Directors.
(a) The Committee shall have power to make Awards, to determine when and to whom Awards will be granted, the types of Awards and the number of Shares covered by the Awards, to establish the terms, conditions, performance criteria, restrictions, and other provisions of such Awards and, subject to the terms of the Plan, to cancel or suspend Awards. In making such Award determinations, the Committee may take into account the nature of services rendered by the Participant, the Participant's present and potential contribution to the Company's success and such other factors as the Committee deems relevant.
(b) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have the authority and discretion to determine the extent to which Awards under the Plan will be structured to conform to the requirements applicable to performance-based compensation as described in Section 162(m) of the Code, and to take such action, establish such procedures, and impose such restrictions at the time such Awards are granted as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to conform to such requirements.
(c) The Committee shall have the authority and discretion to establish terms and conditions of Awards as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to conform to applicable requirements or practices of jurisdictions outside of the United States.
(d) The Committee may determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be settled, paid or exercised in cash, Shares or other Awards or other property, or canceled, forfeited or suspended.
(e) The Committee shall have the authority to interpret the Plan and any Award or Agreement made under the Plan, to establish, amend, waive and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the administration of the Plan, to determine the terms and provisions of any Agreements entered into hereunder (not inconsistent with the Plan), and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
(f) The Committee shall determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property, and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically, or at the election of the holder thereof, or of the Committee.
(g) The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable. The determinations of the Committee in the administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall be final, binding and conclusive.
(h) In controlling and managing the operation and administration of the Plan, the Committee shall act by a majority of its then members, by meeting or by writing filed without a meeting. The Committee shall maintain and keep adequate records concerning the Plan and concerning its proceedings and acts in such form and detail as the Committee may decide.
(i) Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or regulation, the Committee may allocate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any one or more of its members and may delegate all or any part of its responsibilities and powers to any person or persons selected by it. The Committee may revoke any such allocation or delegation at any time.
(j) The Company and any Affiliate shall furnish the Committee with such data and information as may be required for it to discharge its duties. The records of the Company and any Affiliate as to an Employee's or Participant's employment, or other provision of services, termination of employment, or cessation of the provision of services, leave of absence, reemployment and compensation shall be conclusive on all persons unless determined to be incorrect. Participants and other persons entitled to benefit under the Plan must furnish the Committee such evidence, data or information as the Committee considers desirable to carry out the terms of the Plan.
(k) To the fullest extent permitted by law, each member and former member of the Board and the Committee and each person to whom the Board and the Committee delegates or has delegated authority under this Plan shall be entitled to indemnification by the Company against and from any loss, liability, judgment, damage, cost and reasonable expense incurred by such member, former member or other person by reason of any action taken, failure to act or determination made in good faith under or with respect to this Plan.
4. SHARES AVAILABLE FOR AWARDS.
(a) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(e), the maximum number of Shares that may be delivered pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan is 38,000,000. Notwithstanding the foregoing and subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(e), no Participant may receive Options and stock appreciation rights under this Plan in any calendar year that relate to more than 1,000,000 Shares.
(b) Shares to be issued under the Plan may be made available from authorized but unissued Stock, Stock held by the Company in its treasury, or Stock purchased by the Company on the open market or otherwise. During the term of the Plan, the Company will at all times reserve and keep available the number of shares of Stock that shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
(c) If any Shares covered by an Award other than a Substitute Award, or to which such an Award relates, terminate, lapse or are forfeited or cancelled, or such an Award is otherwise settled without the delivery of the full number of Shares underlying the Award, then the Shares covered by such Award, or to which such Award relates, to the extent of any such forfeiture, termination, lapse, cancellation, ., shall again be, or shall become available for issuance under the Plan; provided, however, that Shares (i) delivered in payment of the exercise price of an Option, (ii) not issued upon the net settlement or net exercise of stock appreciation rights, or (iii) delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay withholding taxes related to an Option or stock appreciation right, shall become available again for issuance under this Plan.
etc
(d) Shares underlying Substitute Awards shall not reduce the number of Shares available for delivery under this Plan.
(e) In the event that the Committee shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, share split, reverse share split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust any or all of (i) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or property) which thereafter may be made the subject of Awards, including without limitation the individual limit set forth in Section 4(a), (ii) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or property) subject to outstanding Awards, and (iii) the grant, purchase, or exercise price with respect to any Award or, if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award; , that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number; , with respect to any Award intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any Award intended to comply with, or qualify for an exception to, Section 409A, any such adjustment shall be authorized only to the extent that such adjustment would not cause the Award to fail to comply with Section 162(m) or Section 409A, or an exception thereto.
provided, however
provided, further
5. ELIGIBILITY. All Employees and non-employee Directors are eligible to participate in this Plan and receive Awards hereunder. Holders of equity-based awards issued by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines are eligible to receive Substitute Awards hereunder.
6. OPTIONS. The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Options to Participants with the following terms and conditions and with such additional terms and conditions, in either case not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine:
(a) The purchase price per Share under an Option shall be determined by the Committee; , that, except in the case of Substitute Awards, such purchase price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of such Option.
provided, however
(b) The term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee and the effect thereon, if any, of the termination of employment of the Participant shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Agreement. Notwithstanding, the term of an Option shall not exceed ten (10) years.
(c) Any Option may be exercised at any time during the period commencing with either the date that Option is granted or the first date permitted under a vesting schedule established by the Committee and ending with the expiration date of the Option. A Participant may exercise his Option for all or part of the number of Shares which he is eligible to exercise under terms of the Option. The Committee shall determine the method or methods by which, and the form or forms in which, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other Awards, or other property, or any combination thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the relevant exercise price, payment of the exercise price with respect thereto may be made or deemed to have been made.
(d) The terms of any Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan shall comply in all respects with the provisions of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
(e) Options shall be granted to non-employee Directors in accordance with the policies established from time to time by the Committee, including the terms and conditions of any such award, number of shares (if any) to be subject to each such Option and the time(s) at which such Options shall be granted.
7. RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARDS. The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Awards of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants.
(a) The Awards granted under this Section 7 shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, any limitation on the right to vote Shares underlying Restricted Stock Awards or the right to receive any dividend, other right or property), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in such installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate. If the vesting conditions applicable to an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units relate exclusively to the passage of time and continued employment or provision of services, or refraining therefrom, the last vesting date of all or a portion of such Award shall occur no less than 36 months following the date of such Award, except that the foregoing restriction shall not apply to such Awards if they (i) are made in satisfaction of Company obligations to Participants that would otherwise be paid in cash, (ii) are issued in connection with the exercise of an Option or other Award hereunder, or (iii) are Substitute Awards.
(b) Any Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may deem appropriate, including, without limitation, book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates. In the event any stock certificate is issued in respect of Shares underlying a Restricted Stock Award, such certificate shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Shares.
8. OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS. The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Participants such other Awards (including, without limitation, stock units, stock appreciation rights and rights to dividends and dividend equivalents) that are denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares) as are deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards. Notwithstanding, the term of a stock appreciation right shall not exceed ten (10) years. Shares or other securities delivered pursuant to a purchase right granted under this Section 8 shall be purchased for such consideration, which may be paid by such method or methods and in such form or forms, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, the deferral of compensation, other Awards, or other property, or any combination thereof, as the Committee shall determine, the
value of which consideration, as established by the Committee, shall, except in the case of Substitute Awards or the deferral of compensation, not be less than the Fair Market Value of such Shares or other securities as of the date such purchase right is granted. Full-value awards granted hereunder to Employees will have a standard vesting schedule, in one or more increments, over a service period of no less than (3) three years; provided, however, that (i) up to five (5%) percent of the shares authorized for issuance under the Plan may be granted without this restriction, and (ii) this limitation will not adversely affect a participant's rights under another plan or agreement with AES or its subsidiaries.
9. PERFORMANCE AWARDS.
(a) The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Performance Awards to Covered Persons, with a minimum performance period of at least one (1) year to be applicable to awards granted hereunder, if the Committee intends that such Awards shall qualify as "qualified performance based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, any such Performance Award shall be evidenced by an Agreement containing the terms of the Performance Award, including but not limited to, the performance criteria and such terms and conditions as may be determined, from time to time, by the Committee, in each case, not inconsistent with this Plan.
(b) Performance Awards shall become earned and payable if performance goals relating to one or more of the following performance measures are achieved during a performance period or periods, as determined by the Committee: (i) Cash Value Added, (ii) Total Stockholder Return, (iii) Return on Equity, (iv) Revenue Growth, (v) Return on Net Assets, (vi) Earnings Per Share, (vii) EBITDA, (viii) Return on Invested Capital, (ix) Parent Operating Cash Flow, (x) Consolidated Free Cash Flow or (xi) Cash Return on Investment (CRI), each as hereinafter defined. To the extent consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may determine, at the time the performance goals are established, that certain adjustments shall apply, in whole or in part, in such manner as determined by the Committee, to exclude the effect of any of the following events that occur during a performance period: the impairment of tangible or intangible assets; litigation or claim judgments or settlements; the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, business combinations, reorganizations and/or restructuring programs, including, but not limited to, reductions in force and early retirement incentives; currency fluctuations; and any extraordinary, unusual, infrequent or non-recurring items, including, but not limited to, such items described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations or the financial statements and notes thereto appearing in the Company's annual report for the applicable period.
(c) Performance goals relating to the performance measures set forth above shall be pre-established in writing by the Committee, and achievement thereof certified in writing prior to payment of the Award, as required by Section 162(m) and regulations promulgated thereunder, and such performance goals may relate to the Company as a whole, or to one or more units thereof, and may be measured over such periods, as the Committee shall determine. All such performance goals shall be established in writing no later than ninety (90) days after the beginning of the applicable performance period; provided, however, that for a performance period of less than one (1) year, the Committee shall take any such actions prior to the lapse of 25% of the performance period. In addition to establishing minimum performance goals below which no compensation shall be payable pursuant to a Performance Award, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may create a performance schedule under which an amount less than or more than the target award may be paid so long as the performance goals have been achieved. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may also establish such additional restrictions or conditions that must be satisfied as a condition precedent to the payment of all or a portion of any Performance Awards. Such additional restrictions or conditions need not be performance-based and may include, among other things, the receipt by a Participant of a specified annual performance rating, the continued employment by the Participant and/or the achievement of specified performance goals by the Company, business unit or Participant. Furthermore and notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may reduce the amount of any award to a Participant if it concludes that such reduction is necessary or appropriate based upon: (i) an evaluation of such Participant's performance; (ii) comparison with compensation received by other similarly situated individuals working within the Company's industry; (iii) the Company's financial results and conditions; or (iv) such other factors or conditions that the Committee deems relevant. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Committee shall not use its discretionary authority to increase any Performance Award that is intended to be performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
(d) The maximum value of (i) Performance Awards (denominated in cash) which may be awarded to a Participant under the Plan in any one calendar year of the Company is $10,000,000, and (ii) Performance Awards (denominated in Stock) which may be awarded to a participant under the Plan in any one calendar year of the Company is 1,000,000 Shares.
(e) For purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below. Each of the financial variables of which the respective measures are a function shall be determined in accordance with GAAP, as applicable, in a manner consistent with the Company's audited financial statements for the relevant period.
(i) "" means (A) consolidated cash flow from operations less mandatory capital expenditures, divided by (B) gross investment (where gross investment equals gross property), plant and equipment, plus working capital.
Cash Return on Investment (CRI)
(ii) "" means (A) operating profit after taxes, adjusted for minority interests, plus depreciation and amortization expenses and other material non-cash charges (if any) minus (B) a charge reflecting the cost (including replacement) of new capital.
Cash Value Added
(iii) "" means consolidated cash flow from operations less mandatory capital expenditures (adjusted for minority interests).
Consolidated Free Cash Flow
(iv) "" means net income from continuing operations plus (1) provision for income taxes and (2) depreciation and amortization expenses.
Earnings Before Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA)
(v) "" for a period means diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations before extraordinary items.
Earnings Per Share
(vi) "" for a period means net income divided by average Stockholders' equity (adjusted for accumulated other comprehensive losses).
Return on Equity
(vii) "" for a period means (A) net operating profits after taxes divided by (B) total liabilities plus amounts, if any, attributable to minority interests, preferred stock and average Stockholders' equity (adjusted for accumulated other comprehensive losses).
Return on Invested Capital
(viii) "" for a period means net income less preferred stock dividends divided by the difference of average total assets less average non-debt liabilities, with average defined as the sum of assets or liabilities at the beginning and ending of the period divided by two.
Return on Net Assets
(ix) "" means the percentage change in revenue (as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, published by the Financial Accounting Standards Board) from one period to another.
Revenue Growth
(x) "" means the sum of the appreciation in the Company's stock price and dividends paid on the common stock of the Company over a given period of time.
Total Stockholder Return
(xi) "" means "" as defined in the Company's annual report filed on Form 10-K.
Parent Operating Cash Flow
Parent Operating Cash Flow
10. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee or provided by the Committee in an applicable Agreement and to the extent not inconsistent with Section 14(k) hereof, in case of termination of employment or service, the following provisions shall apply:
(a) Upon termination of employment or cessation of provision of services by the Participant for reason of death or Disability:
(i) any Award (other than Options) then held by such Participant shall be immediately accelerated and become fully vested, exercisable and payable, and
(ii) any Option then held by such Participant shall be immediately accelerated and become fully vested, exercisable and payable and shall expire on the earlier of (1) the date the Option would have expired had the Participant continued in such employment or service, and (2) one year after the date such Participant's employment or service ceases.
(b) Upon termination of employment or cessation of provision of services by the Participant for reason of Retirement:
(i) any Award (other than Options) then held by such Participant shall be immediately accelerated and become fully vested, exercisable and payable, and
(ii) any Option then held by such Participant shall automatically expire on the earlier of (1) the date the Option would have expired had the Participant continued in such employment or service, and (2) one hundred and eighty days after the date such Participant's employment or service ceases, except that any Incentive Stock Option shall automatically expire on the earlier of the date set forth in clause (1) above and three months after the date that such Participant's employment or service ceases.
(c) Upon termination of employment by the Company for cause (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion), or under other circumstances provided by the Committee in its discretion in the applicable Agreement:
(i) any Award then held by such Participant whose restrictions have not lapsed, which is not exercisable or which is not payable will automatically be forfeited in full and canceled by the Company upon such termination of employment or service, and
(ii) any Option then held by such Participant, to the extent exercisable, shall automatically expire on the earlier of (1) the date the Option would have expired had the Participant continued in such employment or service, and (2) and three months after the date that such Participant's service ceases.
(d) Upon termination of employment or cessation of provision of services by the Participant for any reason other than death, Disability, Retirement or termination of employment or service by the Company for cause (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion), or under other circumstances provided by the Committee in its discretion in the applicable Agreement:
(i) any Award (other than Performance Awards) then held by such Participant whose restrictions have not lapsed, which is not exercisable or which is not payable will automatically be forfeited in full and canceled by the Company upon such termination of employment or service,
(ii) any Option then held by such Participant, to the extent exercisable, shall automatically expire on the earlier of (1) the date the Option would have expired had the Participant continued in such employment or service, and (2) one hundred and eighty days after the date the such Participant's service ceases, except that any Incentive Stock Option shall automatically expire on the earlier of clause (i) above and three months after the date that such Participant's service ceases, and
(iii) any Performance Award then held by such Participant which is not then payable will be paid in accordance with its terms at the time the Performance Award would have been payable if the termination of employment or service had not occurred, and the payment shall be prorated based on the number of days in the performance period that occurred prior to the termination of employment or service.
11. DURATION. The Plan shall be effective as of February 1, 2003, subject to its approval by the Stockholders of the Company. No Award shall be granted under the Plan after the tenth anniversary of the last date upon which the Company obtained Stockholder approval of the Plan. However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an applicable Agreement, any Award theretofore granted may extend beyond such date, and the authority of the Committee to administer the Plan and to amend, alter, adjust, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any such Award, or to waive any conditions or rights under any such Award, and the authority of the Board to amend the Plan, shall extend beyond such date.
12. AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION.
(a) Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in an Agreement or in the Plan, the Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time; provided, however, that no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall be made without (i) Stockholder approval if such approval is necessary to comply with any tax or regulatory requirement for which or with which the Board deems it necessary or desirable to qualify or comply or (ii) the consent of the affected Participant, if such action would adversely affect the rights of such Participant under any outstanding Award. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may amend the Plan in such manner as may be necessary to enable the Plan to achieve its stated purposes in any jurisdiction outside the United States in a tax-efficient manner and in compliance with local rules and regulations. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision of the Plan or an Award to the contrary, (i) the Committee may at any time (without the consent of any Participant) modify or amend any or all of the provisions of the Plan or an Award to the extent necessary to conform the provisions of the Plan or an Award with Section 162(m), Section 409A, the regulations issued thereunder or an exception thereto, or other applicable law, regardless of whether such modification or amendment of the Award shall adversely affect the rights of a Participant, and (ii) the Committee may not, without Stockholder approval, reduce the exercise price of any Option or stock appreciation right, exchange any underwater Option or stock appreciation right for a cash payment, or take any other action with respect to outstanding Options or stock appreciation rights that is treated as a repricing of such Options or stock appreciation rights under generally accepted accounting principles (unless otherwise permitted by applicable listing standards).
(b) The Committee may waive any conditions or rights under, amend any terms of, or amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate, any Award theretofore granted, prospectively or retroactively, without the consent of any Participant or holder or beneficiary of an Award, provided, however, that no such action shall impair the rights of a Participant or holder or beneficiary under any Award theretofore granted under the Plan.
(c) With respect to Participants who reside or work outside the United States of America, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend, or otherwise modify, without Board or Stockholder approval, the terms of the Plan or Awards with respect to such Participant in order to conform such terms with the provisions of local law; provided that such amendment or other modification shall not increase the total number of Shares reserved for purposes of the Plan without the approval of the Stockholders of the Company.
(d) The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, an event affecting the Company, or the financial statements of the Company, or of changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles), whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan.
(e) To the extent not inconsistent with Section 14(k) hereof, in connection with a Change in Control or an event described in Section 4(e), the Committee may, in its discretion (i) cancel any or all outstanding
Awards under the Plan in consideration for payment to the holder of each such cancelled Award of an amount equal to the portion of the consideration that would have been payable to such holder pursuant to such transaction if such Award had been fully vested and exercisable, and had been fully exercised, immediately prior to such transaction, less the exercise price if any that would have been payable therefore, or (ii) if the net amount referred to in clause (i) would be negative, cancel such Award for no consideration or payment of any kind. Payment of any amount payable pursuant to the preceding sentence may be made in cash and/or securities or other property in the Committee's discretion.
13. CHANGE IN CONTROL. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the applicable Agreement and to the extent not inconsistent with Section 14(k) hereof, upon the consummation of a Change in Control, all outstanding Options under this Plan shall become fully exercisable and all outstanding Awards (other than Options) under this Plan shall become fully vested and payable.
14. MISCELLANEOUS.
(a) Nothing in the Plan or in any Agreement shall confer upon any Participant the right to continue in the service or employment of the Company or any Affiliate or affect any right which the Company or any Affiliate may have to terminate or modify the employment or provision of service of the Participant with or without cause.
(b) The Company shall have a right to withhold from any payment of cash or Stock to a Participant or other person under the Plan an amount sufficient to cover any required withholding taxes, including the Participant's social security and Medicare taxes (FICA) and federal, state, local income tax or such other applicable taxes ("Taxes") with respect to income arising from payment of the Award. The Company shall have the right to require the payment of any Taxes before issuing any Stock pursuant to the Award. The Committee may, if it deems appropriate in the case of a Participant, withhold such Taxes through a reduction of the number of Shares delivered to such individual, or allow the Participant to elect to cover all or any part of the required withholdings, and to cover any additional withholdings up to the amount needed to cover the Taxes with respect to income arising from payment of the Award, through a reduction of the number of Shares delivered to such individual or a subsequent return to the Company of Shares held by the Participant or other person, in each case valued in the same manner as used in computing the withholding taxes under the applicable laws. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, any broker-assisted cashless exercise shall comply with the requirements for equity classification of Paragraph 35 of FASB Statement No. 123(R) and any withholding satisfied through a net-settlement shall be limited to the minimum statutory withholding requirements.
(c) Awards received by a Participant under this Plan shall not be deemed a part of a Participant's regular, recurring compensation for purposes of any termination, indemnity or severance pay laws and shall not be included in, nor have any effect on, the determination of benefits under any other employee benefit plan, contract or similar arrangement provided by the Company or an Affiliate, unless expressly so provided by such other plan, contract or arrangement, or unless the Committee so determines. No provision of the Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting or continuing in effect other or additional compensation arrangements, including incentive arrangements providing for the issuance of options and stock, and awards that do not qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, and such arrangements may be generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
(d) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, (i) no Award and no right under any Award shall be assignable, alienable, saleable or transferable by a Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution; , that, if so determined by the Committee, a Participant may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise the rights of the Participant, and to receive any property distributable, with respect to any Award upon the death of the Participant; (ii) each Award, and each right under any Award, shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the Participant or, if permissible under applicable law, by the Participant's guardian or legal representative; and (iii) no Award and no right under any such Award, may be pledged, alienated, attached, or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance thereof shall be void and unenforceable against the Company. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to any Award which has been fully exercised, earned or paid, as the case may be, and shall not preclude forfeiture of an Award in accordance with the terms thereof.
provided, however
(e) This Plan shall be unfunded and the Company shall not be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by Awards under this Plan. Neither the Company, its Affiliates, the Committee, nor the Board shall be deemed to be a trustee of any amounts to be paid under this Plan nor shall anything contained in this Plan or any action taken pursuant to its provisions create or be construed to create a fiduciary relationship between the Company and/or its Affiliates, and a Participant or Successor. To the extent any person acquires a right to receive an Award under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
(f) Any liability of the Company to any Participant with respect to an Award shall be based solely upon contractual obligations created by this Plan and the applicable Agreement. Except as may be required by law, neither the Company nor any member or former member of the Board or of the Committee, nor any other person participating (including participation pursuant to a delegation of authority under Sections 3(c) and 3(i) hereof) in any determination of any question under this Plan, or in the interpretation, administration or application of this Plan, shall have any liability to any party for any action taken, or not taken, under this Plan.
(g) No certificate for Shares distributable pursuant to this Plan shall be issued and delivered unless the issuance of such certificate complies with all applicable legal requirements including, without limitation, compliance with the provisions of applicable state securities laws, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and in effect from time to time or any successor statute, the Exchange Act and the requirements of the exchanges on which the Company's Shares may, at such time be listed.
(h) To the extent that federal laws do not otherwise control, this Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant to this Plan shall be governed by the laws of Delaware and construed accordingly.
(i) In the event that any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of this Plan, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
(j) No fractional shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to this Plan or any Agreement, and the Committee shall determine whether cash, other securities, or other property shall be paid or transferred in lieu of any fractional shares, or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated, or otherwise eliminated.
(k) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or an Agreement to the contrary, if any Award or benefit provided under this Plan is subject to the provisions of Section 409A, the provisions of the Plan and any applicable Agreement shall be administered, interpreted and construed in a manner necessary to comply with Section 409A or an exception thereto (or disregarded to the extent such provision cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed). The following provisions shall apply, as applicable:
(i) If a Participant is a Specified Employee and a payment subject to Section 409A (and not excepted therefrom) to the Participant is due upon Separation from Service, such payment shall be delayed for a period of six (6) months after the date the Participant Separates from Service (or, if earlier, the death of the Participant). Any payment that would otherwise have been due or owing during such six-month period will be paid immediately following the end of the six-month period in the month following the month containing the 6-month anniversary of the date of termination unless another compliant date is specified in the applicable Agreement.
(ii) For purposes of Section 409A, and to the extent applicable to any Award or benefit under the Plan, it is intended that distribution events qualify as permissible distribution events for purposes of Section 409A and shall be interpreted and construed accordingly. Whether a Participant has Separated from Service or employment will be determined based on all of the facts and circumstances and, to the extent applicable to any Award or benefit, in accordance with the guidance issued under Section 409A. For this purpose, a Participant will be presumed to have experienced a Separation from Service when the level of services performed permanently decreases to a level less than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of services performed during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period or such other applicable period as provided by Section 409A.
With respect to payments subject to Section 409A, the Company reserves the right to accelerate and/or defer any payment to the extent permitted and consistent with Section 409A.
bona fide
bona fide
(iii) The Committee, in its discretion, may specify the conditions under which the payment of all or any portion of any Award may be deferred until a later date. Deferrals shall be for such periods or until the occurrence of such events, and upon such terms and conditions, as the Committee shall determine in its discretion, in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A, the regulations and other binding guidance promulgated thereunder; provided, however, that no deferral shall be permitted with respect to Options and other stock rights subject to Section 409A. An election shall be made by filing an election with the Company (on a form provided by the Company) on or prior to December 31st of the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the calendar year (or other applicable service period) to which such election relates (or at such other date as may be specified by the Board to the extent consistent with Section 409A) and shall be irrevocable for such applicable calendar year (or other applicable service period).
(iv) The grant of Non-Qualified Stock Options and other stock rights subject to Section 409A shall be granted under terms and conditions consistent with Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(5) such that any such Award does not constitute a deferral of compensation under Section 409A. Accordingly, any such Award may be granted to Participants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which the Company has a controlling interest. In determining whether the Company has a controlling interest, the rules of Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) shall apply; provided that the language "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears; provided, further, where legitimate business reasons exist (within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(5)(iii)(E)(i)), the language "at least 20 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears. The rules of Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-3 and 1.414(c)-4 shall apply for purposes of determining ownership interests.
(v) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein and with respect to Options that were earned and vested under the Plan prior to January 1, 2005 (as determined under Section 409A, "Grandfather Options"), such Grandfathered Options are intended to be exempt from Section 409A and shall be administered and interpreted in a manner intended to ensure that any such Grandfathered Option remains exempt from Section 409A. No amendments or other modifications shall be made to such Grandfathered Options except as specifically set forth in a separate writing thereto, and no amendment or modification to the Plan shall be interpreted or construed in a manner that would cause a material modification (within the meaning of Section 409A, including Treas. Reg.  1.409A-6(a)(4)) to any such Grandfathered Options.
(vi) In no event shall any member of the Board, the Committee or the Company (or its employees, Officers or Directors) have any liability to any Participant (or any other Person) due to the failure of an Award to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A.
 

Exhibit 10.2
The AES Corporation, a Delaware Corporation (the "Company"), grants to the Director named below, pursuant to The AES Corporation 2003 Long Term Compensation Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and this 2010 Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement (this "Agreement"), this Award of a Nonqualified Stock Option ("Option") to purchase full shares of common stock of the Company ("Shares") upon the terms and conditions set forth herein. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein will each have the meaning assigned to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, in the event that a Separation from Service described in clause (A) or clause (B) above occurs on or after April 22, 2013, to the extent that all or any portion of this Option has vested but not yet expired as of such date, such portion of this Option will expire (i) the last day of the time period described in clause (A) or clause (B) above, as applicable, or (ii) the date such portion of this Option would have expired, had such service continued.
on the earlier of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
. The AES Corporation ("Company") maintains The AES Corporation 2003 Long Term Compensation Plan, as amended and restated (the "2003 Plan"), and The AES Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors (the "Directors' Plan"). Pursuant to the Directors' Plan each member of the Board of Directors of the Company who is not an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (a "Non-Employee Director") was previously eligible through an election to defer receipt of any compensation (above any amount of mandatory deferred compensation) to be earned by such Non-Employee Director and to have Stock Units (as hereinafter defined) credited to an account established for such Non-Employee Director by the Company. Effective April 22, 2010, the Company hereby establishes The AES Corporation Deferred Compensation Program for Directors (the "Program") in accordance with the provisions of the 2003 Plan as now or hereafter amended and the terms provided herein. The purpose of the Program is to assist the Company in attracting, retaining and motivating highly qualified Non-Employee Directors and to promote identification of, and align Non-Employee Directors' interests more closely with, the interests of the stockholders of the Company. This Program shall also govern any amounts of mandatory deferral of annual compensation provided to Non-Employee directors in the form of Stock Units.
Section 1.1. Establishment and Purpose
The Program shall provided benefits on substantially the same terms and conditions as previously provided under the Directors' Plan, as described more fully herein, and shall be administered jointly with the Directors' Plan as if such plans were governed and administered as one plan. The Program as set forth herein is intended to fully comply with Section 409A.
In addition to the terms and conditions set forth herein, benefits provided under the Program are subject to, and governed by, the terms and conditions set forth in the 2003 Plan, which terms are hereby incorporated by reference. Unless the context otherwise requires, capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the 2003 Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and the 2003 Plan or Directors' Plan, the Committee shall have full authority and discretion to resolve such conflict and any such determination shall be final and binding on the Non-Employee Director and all interested parties.
. In addition to the terms previously or hereafter defined herein, the following terms when used herein shall have the meaning set forth below:
Section 1.2. Definitions
shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and in effect from time to time, or any successor statute.
"Code"
shall mean the committee of the Board appointed by the Board to administer the Program. Unless otherwise determined by the Board, the Committee shall be the Compensation Committee of the Board.
"Committee"
shall mean the Company's common stock, par value $.01 per share.
"Common Stock"
shall mean all remuneration to be paid to a Non-Employee Director for services to be rendered during the applicable Plan Year. The Committee may specify for any Plan Year, prior to the last date for making an Election for such Plan Year, that all or a portion of Compensation shall be subject to mandatory deferral under the Program.
"Compensation"
shall mean all remuneration paid to a Non-Employee Director for service as such that is deferred hereunder.
"Deferred Compensation"
shall mean, as of any date, the closing price for the Common Stock as reported in the New York Stock Exchange  Composite Transactions reporting system for the date in question or, if no sales were effected on such date, on the preceding date on which sales were effected.
"Fair Market Value"
shall mean the approximate twelve-month period beginning on the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders at which directors are elected to the Board for the year period immediately following such Annual Shareholders Meeting and ending on the date immediately preceding the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company at which directors are elected to the Board, unless otherwise determined by the Board.
"Plan Year"
shall mean Section 409A of the Code, the regulations and other binding guidance promulgated thereunder.
"Section 409A"
shall mean the Director's death, retirement or other termination of service with the Company and all of its controlled group members within the meaning of Section 409A. For purposes hereof, the determination of controlled group members shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code; provided that the language "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears in Section 1563(a)(1),(2) and (3) of the Code and Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-2. Whether the Director has a Separation from Service will be determined based on all of the facts and circumstances and in accordance with the guidance issued under Section 409A.
"Separation from Service"
shall mean a credit that is equivalent to one share of Common Stock.
"Stock Unit"
. The Program shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a majority of the members of the Committee present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts approved in writing by a majority of the members of the Committee, shall be deemed the acts of the Committee. The Committee is authorized to interpret and construe the Program, to make all determinations and take all other actions necessary or advisable for the administration of the Program, and to delegate to employees of the Company or any subsidiary the authority to perform administrative functions under the Program; provided, however, that the Committee shall have no authority to determine the persons entitled to receive Common Stock or Stock Units under the Program nor the timing, amount or price of Common Stock or Stock Units issued under the Program. The provisions of this Program and all Elections made hereunder shall be administered, interpreted and construed in a manner necessary in order to comply with Section 409A or an exception thereto (or disregarded to the extent such provision cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed). It is intended that distribution events authorized under this Program qualify as a permissible distribution events for purposes of Section 409A, and this Program shall be interpreted and construed accordingly in order to comply with Section 409A. The Company reserves the right to accelerate, delay or modify distributions to the extent permitted under Section 409A.
Section 1.3. Administration
. An individual who is a Non-Employee Director shall be eligible to participate in the Program.
Section 1.4. Eligibility
. Common Stock to be issued under the Program shall be from shares authorized to be issued under the 2003 Plan.
Section 1.5. Common Stock Subject to the Program
. Any Non-Employee Director may elect to defer receipt of Compensation otherwise payable to the Non-Employee Director for a Plan Year and to have such Deferred Compensation credited as Stock Units hereunder ("Stock Unit Election"). If a Non-Employee Director makes a Stock Unit Election or Compensation is subject to mandatory deferral, an account established for the Non-Employee Director and maintained by the Company shall be credited with that number of Stock Units equal to the number of shares of Common Stock (including fractions of a share to two decimal places) that could have been purchased with the amount of Deferred Compensation subject to a Stock Unit Election based on the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day that the Non-Employee Director is elected to the Board for the Plan Year for which the Stock Unit Election was made by the Non-Employee Director, unless otherwise determined by the Board.
Section 2.1. Elections to Defer Compensation
. A Stock Unit Election (an "Election") shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Section 2.2. Terms and Conditions of Elections
1. An Election for a Plan Year shall be in writing and shall be irrevocable for such applicable Plan Year;
2. An Election shall be effective for any Plan Year only if made on or prior to December 31st of the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the Plan Year to which the Election relates (or such other date as permitted by the Committee to the extent consistent with Section 409A). A Non-Employee Director who first becomes eligible to participate in the Program may file an Election ("Initial Election") at any time prior to the 30-day period following the date on which the Non-Employee Director initially becomes eligible to participate in the Program. Any such Initial Election shall only apply to Compensation earned and payable for services rendered after the date on which the Election is delivered to the Company. Accordingly, if an Election is made in the first-year of eligibility but after the beginning of the Plan Year, then, with respect to Compensation that is earned based on a specific performance period, the Initial Election shall only apply to the total amount of any such Compensation multiplied by the ratio of (i) the number of days remaining in the Plan Year after the Election to (ii) the total number of days in the Plan Year; and
3. An Election shall remain in effect for all future Plan Years unless terminated or changed pursuant to an Election made on or prior to the last date for filing an Election for the next Plan Year.
Section 2.3. Adjustment of Stock Unit Accounts.
a.  As of the date that any cash dividend is paid to stockholders of the Company, the Non-Employee Director's Stock Unit account shall be credited with additional Stock Units equal to the number of shares of Common Stock (including fractions of a share to two decimal places) that could have been purchased with the dividends paid on the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units in such Non-Employee Director's account, with the purchase price for such Stock Units based on the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day that the dividend was paid.
Cash Dividends
b.  In the event that a dividend shall be paid upon the Common Stock of the Company in shares of Common Stock, the number of Stock Units in each Non-Employee Director's Stock Unit account shall be adjusted by adding thereto additional Stock Units equal to the number of shares of Common Stock which would have been distributable on the Common Stock represented by Stock Units if such shares of Common Stock had been outstanding on the date fixed for determining the stockholders entitled to receive such stock dividend.
Stock Dividends
c.  In the event that the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company shall be changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares of stock or other securities of the Company or of another corporation, whether through reorganization, recapitalization, stock split-up, combination of shares, merger or consolidation, then there shall be substituted, for the shares of Common Stock represented by Stock Units, the number and kinds of shares of stock or other securities which would have been substituted if such shares of Common Stock had been outstanding on the date fixed for determining the stockholders entitled to receive such changed or substituted stock or other securities.
Other Adjustments
In the event there shall be any change, other than specified in this Section 2.3, in the number or kind of outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company or of any stock or other securities into which such Common Stock shall be changed or for which it shall have been exchanged, an adjustment in the number of Stock Units or the Common Stock represented by such Stock Units, such adjustment shall be made by the Board and shall be effective and binding for all purposes of the Program and on each outstanding Stock Unit account. In the event of any recapitalization in which shares of Common Stock are converted into, exchanged for or entitled to shares of a non-equity security of the Company, securities of another issuer or other non-stock consideration, all stock units shall be converted to cash based on the fair market value of the Common Stock immediately prior to the first public
announcement of the recapitalization, or the effective date of the recapitalization, whichever occurs earlier, and the Program shall be terminated unless otherwise determined by the Board; provided, however, termination of the Program shall not be a distribution event under the Program unless otherwise permitted under Section 409A and other applicable law.
.
Section 2.4. Distribution of Stock Units
Unless a Non-Employee Director has selected a different payment option as set forth below, on the first business day after the end of the calendar quarter following the date of such Non-Employee Director's Separation from Service (other than by reason of such Non-Employee Director's death), the Company shall distribute such Non-Employee Director's Stock Units in substantially equal annual installments as follows: one-fifth (20.00%) of that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the whole number of Stock Units in such Non-Employee Director's Stock Unit account determined as of the close of the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange coinciding with the date of the Non-Employee Director's Separation from Service (the "Initial Distribution"); and on the first, second, third and fourth anniversary of the Initial Distribution, the Company shall issue to such Non-Employee Director a substantially equal number of shares of Common Stock distributed in connection with the Initial Distribution. Any fractional Stock Units remaining in such account on the forth anniversary of the Initial Distribution shall be distributed in cash based on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock as of such fourth anniversary date.
A Non-Employee Director may elect, in his or her Initial Election, to receive the Common Stock represented by the Stock Units in such Non-Employee Director's Stock Unit account in a single payment upon Separation from Service or commencing on such later date as the Non-Employee Director may specify, or in annual installments (not to exceed ten) commencing on Separation from Service .
A Non-Employee Director may modify any such Initial Election by a subsequent written distribution election (on a form approved and provided by the Company); provided, however, an Initial Election can only be changed if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the change will not take effect until twelve (12) months after the election is made; (ii) the change must be made at least twelve (12) months prior to the previously scheduled payment date (or initial scheduled payment date in the case of installment payments); and (iii) the payment with respect to which the change is made must be deferred for at least five (5) years from the date the payment would otherwise have been made (or initial scheduled payment date in the case of installment payments); provided, further, the Committee may, in its discretion, authorize a Non-Employee Director to change a distribution election under any applicable transition rule authorized under Section 409A to the extent consistent therewith.
4. For purposes of Section 409A and the Program: (i) the right to installment payments shall be treated as the right to a single payment; and (ii) a payment shall be treated as made on the scheduled payment date if such payment is made at such date or a later date in the same calendar year or, if later, by the 15th day of the third calendar month following the scheduled payment date. Except as specified in this Section 2.4, a Non-Employee Director shall have no right to designate the date of any payment under the Program. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, if the Non-Employee Director is a "specified employee" for purposes of Section 409A (as determined in accordance with the procedures established by the Company), any payment to the Non-Employee Director due upon Separation from Service will be delayed for a period of six months after the date of the Non-Employee Director's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the death of the Non-Employee Director). Any payment that would otherwise have been due or owing during such six-month period will be paid on the first business day following the end of the six-month period.
. In the event of the death of a Non-Employee Director, whether before or after Separation from Service, any Stock Units remaining in the Stock Unit account to which he or she was entitled shall be converted to Common Stock as of the last day of the calendar quarter in which the Non-Employee Director's death occurred. Fractional Stock Units shall be converted to cash based on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock. The Company shall issue the Common Stock and distribute any applicable cash for Fractional Stock Units on the first business day after the end of the calendar quarter following the date of the Non-Employee Director's death in a lump sum to such person or persons or the supervisors thereof, including corporations, unincorporated associations or trusts, as the Non-Employee Director may have designated. All such designations
Section 2.5. Distributions on Death
shall be made in writing, signed by the Non-Employee Director and delivered to the Company. A Non-Employee Director may from time to time revoke or change any such designation by written notice to the Company. If there is no unrevoked designation on file with the Company at the time of the Non-Employee Director's death, or if the person or persons designated therein shall have all predeceased the Non-Employee Director or otherwise ceased to exist, such distributions shall be made to the Non-Employee Director's estate.
. The Board may alter, amend, suspend or discontinue the Program; provided that no such action shall deprive any person without such person's consent of any rights theretofore granted pursuant hereto Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision of this Program to the contrary, that the Board may, in its sole discretion and without the Non-Employee Director's consent, modify or amend the terms of the Program or an Election, or take any other action it deems necessary or advisable, to cause the Program to comply with Section 409A (or an exception thereto).
Section 3.1. Amendment and Discontinuance
. This Program shall terminate and full distribution shall be made from all participants' Deferred Compensation accounts upon a change of control of the Company. Either of the following shall constitute a change of control: (a) the occurrence, without the prior approval of the Board, of the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person of more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company; (b) the date a majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board before the date of the appointment or election. As used in this sentence and the preceding sentence and to the extent not inconsistent with Section 409A, person shall mean a natural person, an entity (together with an affiliate thereof, as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) or a group, as defined in Rule 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Board at any time, at its discretion, may terminate this Program; provided that, termination of the Program shall not be a distribution event under the Program unless otherwise permitted under Section 409A or other applicable law. If the Program terminates at a time when distributions are not permitted pursuant to Section 409A, distributions in respect of credits to Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Compensation accounts as of the date of termination shall be made in the manner and at the time prescribed in Sections 2.4 and 2.5.
Section 3.2. Termination of the Program
. Notwithstanding any provision of the Program or the terms of any agreement entered into pursuant to the Program, the Company shall not be required to issue any shares hereunder prior to registration of the shares subject to the 2003 Plan under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, if such registration shall be necessary, or before compliance by the Company or any participant with any other provisions of either of those acts or of regulations or rulings of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder, or before compliance with other federal and state laws and regulations and rulings thereunder, including the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. The Company shall use its best efforts to effect such registrations and to comply with such laws, regulations and rulings forthwith upon advice by its counsel that any such registration or compliance is necessary.
Section 3.3. Compliance with Governmental Regulations
. With respect to persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, transactions under this Program are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 (or its successor rule). To the extent that any provision of the Program or any action by the Board of Directors or the Committee fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void to the extent permitted by law and to the extent deemed advisable by the Committee.
Section 3.4. Compliance with Section 16
. No right or interest of a Non-Employee Director in a Stock Unit account under the Program may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, encumbered or otherwise disposed of except as expressly provided in the Program; and no interest or benefit of any Non-Employee Director under the Program shall be subject to the claims of creditors of the Non-Employee Director.
Section 3.5. Non-Alienation of Benefits
. To the extent required by applicable law or regulation, each Non-Employee Director must arrange with the Company for the payment of any federal, state or local income or other tax applicable to the receipt of Common Stock or Stock Units under the Program before the Company shall be required to deliver to the Non-Employee Director a certificate for Common Stock free and clear of all restrictions under the Program.
Section 3.6. Withholding Taxes
. No obligation of the Company under the Program shall be secured by any specific assets of the Company, nor shall any assets of the Company be designated as attributable or allocated to the satisfaction of any such obligation. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under the Program, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company.
Section 3.7. Funding

Exhibit 10.4
 
The purpose of The AES Corporation Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to advance the interests of the Company and its stockholders by providing incentives to key employees with significant responsibility for achieving performance goals critical to the success and growth of the Company. The Plan is designed to: (i) promote the attainment of the Company's significant business objectives; (ii) encourage and reward management teamwork across the entire Company; and (iii) assist in the attraction and retention of employees vital to the Company's long-term success. The Plan has been amended to comply with Section 409A.
 
For the purpose of the Plan, the following definitions shall apply:
(a) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(b) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including any successor law thereto.
Code
(c) "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee as is appointed or designated by the Board to administer the Plan, in each case which shall be comprised solely of two or more "outside directors" (as defined under Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder).
Committee
(d) "" means The AES Corporation and any subsidiary entity or affiliate thereof, including subsidiaries or affiliates which become such after adoption of the Plan.
Company
(e) "" "" "" means the loss by a Participant of any and all rights to an award granted under the Plan, including the loss to any payment of compensation by the Company under the Plan or any award granted thereunder.
Forfeit,
Forfeiture,
Forfeited
(f) "" means any person: (1) who satisfies the eligibility requirements set forth in Paragraph 4; (2) to whom an award has been made by the Committee; and (3) whose award remains outstanding under the Plan.
Participant
(g) "" means, in relation to any Performance Period, the level of performance that must be achieved with respect to a Performance Measure.
Performance Goal
(h) "" means any one or more of the following performance criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and subject to such modifications or variations as specified by the Committee, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit or subsidiary entity thereof, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured over a period of time including any portion of a year, annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee: cash flow; cash flow from operations; earnings (including, but not limited to, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization or some variation thereof); earnings per share, diluted or basic; earnings per share from continuing operations; net asset turnover; inventory turnover; capital expenditures; debt; debt reduction; working capital; return on investment; return on sales; net or gross sales; market share; economic value added; cost of capital; change in assets; expense reduction levels; productivity; delivery performance; safety record and/or performance; stock price; return
Performance Measures
on equity; total stockholder return; return on capital; return on assets or net assets; revenue; income or net income; operating income or net operating income; operating income adjusted for management fees and depreciation, and amortization; operating profit or net operating profit; gross margin, operating margin or profit margin; and completion of acquisitions, business expansion, product diversification, new or expanded market penetration and other non-financial operating and management performance objectives.
To the extent consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, the Committee may determine at the time the performance goals are established that certain adjustments shall apply, in whole or in part, in such manner as specified by the Committee, to exclude the effect of any of the following events that occur during a Performance Period: the impairment of tangible or intangible assets; litigation or claim judgments or settlements; changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; business combinations, reorganizations and/or restructuring programs, including but not limited to reductions in force and early retirement incentives; currency fluctuations; and any extraordinary, unusual, infrequent or non-recurring items, including, but not limited to, such items separately identified in the financial statements and/or notes thereto in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
(i) "" means, in relation to any award, the calendar year or other period of 12 months or less for which a Participant's performance is being calculated, with each such period constituting a separate Performance Period.
Performance Period
(j) "" shall mean Section 409A of the Code, the regulations and other binding guidance promulgated thereunder.
Section 409A
(k) "" means retirement of an employee as determined and authorized by the Committee.
Retirement
(l) "" means: (1) if the Participant is insured under a long-term disability insurance policy or plan which is paid for by the Company, the Participant is totally disabled under the terms of that policy or plan; or (2) if no such policy or plan exists, the Participant shall be considered to be totally disabled as determined by the Committee.
Total and Permanent Disability
 
(a) The management of the Plan shall be vested in the Committee; provided, however, that all acts and authority of the Committee pursuant to this Plan shall be subject to the provisions of the Committee's Charter, as amended from time to time, and such other authority as may be delegated to the Committee by the Board. The Committee may, with respect to Participants whom the Committee determines are not likely to be subject to Section 162(m) of the Code, delegate such of its powers and authority under the Plan to the Company's officers as it deems necessary or appropriate. In the event of such delegation, all references to the Committee in this Plan shall be deemed references to such officers as it relates to those aspects of the Plan that have been delegated.
(b) Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall, among other things, have full authority and discretion to determine eligibility for participation in the Plan, make awards under the Plan, establish the terms and conditions of such awards (including the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Measure(s) to be utilized) and determine whether the Performance Goals applicable to any Performance Measures for any awards have been achieved. The Committee's determinations under the Plan need not be uniform among all Participants, or classes or categories of Participants, and may be applied to such Participants, or classes or categories of Participants, as the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, considers necessary, appropriate or desirable. The Committee is authorized to interpret the Plan, to adopt administrative rules, regulations, and guidelines for the Plan, and may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency or conflict in the Plan or in any award. All determinations by the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Company, the Participant and any and all interested parties.
(c) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have the authority and discretion to determine the extent to which awards under the Plan will be structured to conform to the requirements applicable to performance-based compensation as described in Section 162(m) of the Code, and to take such action, establish such
procedures, and impose such restrictions at the time such awards are granted as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to conform to such requirements. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if an award under this Plan is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder and a provision of this Plan would prevent such award from so qualifying, such provision shall be administered, interpreted and construed to carry out such intention (or disregarded to the extent such provision cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed).
(d) The benefits provided under the Plan are intended to comply with Section 409A or an exception thereunder and shall be construed accordingly. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if any benefit provided under this Plan is subject to the provisions of Section 409A and the regulations issued thereunder (and not excepted therefrom), the provisions of the Plan shall be administered, interpreted and construed in a manner necessary to comply with Section 409A and the regulations issued thereunder (or disregarded to the extent such provision cannot be so administered, interpreted, or construed.)
 
Officers and key employees of the Company shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. No employee shall have the right to participate in the Plan, and participation in the Plan in any one Performance Period does not entitle an individual to participate in future Performance Periods.
 
(a) The Committee may, in its discretion, from time to time make awards to persons eligible for participation in the Plan pursuant to which the Participant will earn cash compensation. The amount of a Participant's award may be based on a percentage of such Participant's salary or such other methods as may be established by the Committee. Each award shall be communicated to the Participant, and shall specify, among other things, the terms and conditions of the award and the Performance Goals to be achieved. The maximum amount of an award that may be earned under the Plan by any Participant for any Performance Period shall not exceed USD $5,000,000.
(b) With respect to awards that are intended to be performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, each award shall be conditioned upon the Company's achievement of one or more Performance Goal(s) with respect to the Performance Measure(s) established by the Committee. No later than ninety (90) days after the beginning of the applicable Performance Period, the Committee shall establish in writing the Performance Goals, Performance Measures and the method(s) for computing the amount of compensation which will be payable under the Plan to each Participant if the Performance Goals established by the Committee are attained; provided however, that for a Performance Period of less than one year, the Committee shall take any such actions prior to the lapse of 25% of the Performance Period. In addition to establishing minimum Performance Goals below which no compensation shall be payable pursuant to an award, the Committee, in its discretion, may create a performance schedule under which an amount less than or more than the target award may be paid so long as the Performance Goals have been achieved.
(c) The Committee, in its sole discretion, may also establish such additional restrictions or conditions that must be satisfied as a condition precedent to the payment of all or a portion of any awards. Such additional restrictions or conditions need not be performance-based and may include, among other things, the receipt by a Participant of a specified annual performance rating, the continued employment by the Participant and/or the achievement of specified performance goals by the Company, business unit or Participant. Furthermore and notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may reduce the amount of any award to a Participant if it concludes that such reduction is necessary or appropriate based upon: (i) an evaluation of such Participant's performance; (ii) comparisons with compensation received by other similarly situated individuals working within the Company's industry; (iii) the Company's financial results and conditions; or (iv) such other factors or conditions that the Committee deems relevant. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Committee shall not use its discretionary authority to increase any award that is intended to be performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
(a) After the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals and any other material terms have been achieved. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, earned Awards shall be paid in the first calendar year immediately following the end of the Performance Period and within the applicable 2
 1
/
2
month period specified in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(4) ("Payment Date"). For purposes of this provision, and for so long as the Code permits, the approved minutes of the Committee meeting in which the certification is made may be treated as written certification.
(b) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Participants who have terminated employment with the Company prior to the actual payment date of any award for any reason other than death, Retirement or Total and Permanent Disability, shall Forfeit any and all rights to payment under any awards then outstanding under the terms of the Plan and shall not be entitled to any cash payment for such period. If a Participant's employment with the Company should terminate during a Performance Period by reason of death, Retirement or Total and Permanent Disability or the Committee determines that an award is not Forfeited, the Participant's award shall be prorated to reflect the period of service prior to his/her termination, death, Retirement or Total and Permanent Disability, and shall be paid either to the Participant or, as appropriate, the Participant's estate, subject to the Committee's certification that the applicable Performance Goals and other material terms have been met.
(c) The Committee shall determine whether, to what extent, and under what additional circumstances amounts payable with respect to an award under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically, at the election of the Participant, or by the Committee. All deferrals under The AES Corporation Restoration Supplemental Retirement Plan shall be made in accordance with terms and procedures of such plan.
 
While the Company intends that the Plan shall continue in force from year to year, the Company reserves the right to amend, modify or terminate the Plan, at any time; provided, however, that no such modification, amendment or termination shall, without the consent of the Participant, materially adversely affect the rights of such Participant to any payment that has been determined by the Committee to be due and owing to the Participant under the Plan but not yet paid. Any and all actions permitted under this Section 7 may be authorized and performed by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion.
Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may at any time (without the consent of the Participant) modify, amend or terminate any or all of the provisions of this Plan to the extent necessary to conform the provisions of the Plan with Section 409A or Section 162(m) of the Code, the regulations promulgated thereunder or an exception thereto regardless of whether such modification, amendment, or termination of the Plan shall adversely affect the rights of a Participant under the Plan. Notwithstanding, (i) Section 409A may impose upon the Participant certain taxes or other charges for which the Participant is and shall remain solely responsible, and nothing contained in this Plan shall be construed to obligate the Company for any such taxes or other charges, and (ii) in no event shall the Committee or Board (or any member thereof), or the Company (or its employees, officers, directors or affiliates) have any liability to any Participant (or any other person) due to the failure of the Plan to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A or any other applicable law.
 
A Participant's rights under the Plan may not be assigned, pledged, or otherwise transferred except, in the event of a Participant's death, to the Participant's designated beneficiary, or in the absence of such a designation, by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
The Plan is not funded and all awards payable hereunder shall be paid from the general assets of the Company. No provision contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Plan shall create a trust of any kind or require the Company to maintain or set aside any specific funds to pay benefits hereunder. To the extent a Participant acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such right shall be no
greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company. If any earned Award is not paid by the Payment Date due to administrative impracticability, such earned Award will be paid, without earnings, as soon as administratively practicable thereafter.
 
The Company shall have the right to withhold from any awards payable under the Plan or other wages payable to a Participant such amounts sufficient to satisfy federal, state and local tax withholding obligations arising from or in connection with the Participant's participation in the Plan and such other deductions as may be authorized by the Participant or as required by applicable law.
 
Nothing contained in the Plan shall confer upon any Participant any right with respect to continued employment with the Company (or any of its affiliates) nor shall the Plan interfere in any way with the right of the Company (or any of its affiliates) to at any time reassign the Participant to a different job, change the compensation of the Participant or terminate the Participant's employment for any reason.
 
Nothing contained in this Plan shall prevent the Corporation from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements for employees of the Corporation, including arrangements that are not intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to its conflict of law provisions.
 
The Plan's material terms have been approved by the Company's stockholders. This amendment and restatement of The AES Corporation Performance Incentive Plan has been duly executed by the undersigned and is effective this 22 day of April 2010.
 


