FILE:AES/AES-8K-20101104060839.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 4, 2010, The AES Corporation ("AES") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 2.06 Material Impairments
On November 2, 2010, the Company concluded that as a result of impairment indicators identified during the third quarter financial statement close process, its long lived assets at Tisza (Hungary) and Huntington Beach (Southland) were not recoverable. The Company measured the estimated fair value of these asset groups and recognized a pre-tax impairment charge of $85 million and $200 million related to Tisza and Huntington Beach, respectively in the quarterly unaudited results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Further information regarding these impairments is included in Footnote 13 of the Company's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2010.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 4, 2010, AES issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 and updated its 2010 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency pricing, continued normal or better levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth from investments at investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") including but not limited to the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, as well as our other SEC filings. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Meghan Dotter 703 682 6670
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703 682 6451
Investor Contact:
AES Reports Third Quarter Results, Reflecting Increased Operating Cash Flows from Latin America and Asia Businesses; Increases Full Year Cash Flow Guidance and Reaffirms Adjusted EPS Guidance for 2010
Consolidated Operating Cash Flow of $1.0 Billion and Proportional Operating Cash Flow of $530 Million in line with Third Quarter 2009
 
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported results for the third quarter 2010. The Company's results were driven by improved operating performance at its generation segment in Asia, higher volume at its Latin America utilities, increased summer month peak demand in North America and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. These contributions were offset by lower margins in North America and Chile. In addition, per share results reflected a higher share count.
ARLINGTON, Va, November 4, 2010 
"Operating performance improvements at our Asia generation businesses and at our Latin America utilities this quarter enabled us to deliver on the stronger demand in both markets. These favorable trends were partially offset, however, by lower margins at our U.S. merchant generation facilities, where we continue to see the impact of lower gas prices," said Paul Hanrahan, AES President and Chief Executive Officer.
During the quarter, The Company also completed the previously announced acquisition of the 1,246 MW Ballylumford facility in Northern Ireland on August 12, 2010. "This year, consistent with our strategy of allocating capital to those opportunities with the greatest return, we repurchased $90 million in common shares and retired parent debt of $904
 
 
million. Coupled with the Ballylumford acquisition, which we expect to contribute earnings during the fourth quarter of 2010, all of these investments demonstrate our ongoing commitment to creating shareholder value," stated Victoria D. Harker, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Table 1: Results for Third Quarter 2010, Year-To-Date 2010 and Full Year 2010 Guidance
 
Key drivers of the Third Quarter results include (comparison of Q3 2010 vs. Q3 2009):
During the third quarter 2010, AES benefited from increased summer month peak weather related demand in North America, higher volume at its utilities in Brazil, higher rates and volume at its generation segment in Asia, as well as favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in Brazil. These benefits were offset by unfavorable margins at the Company's merchant generation plants in North America and higher fuel and purchased energy prices in Chile.
 
 
 
The Company also recorded impairment charges in the third quarter. In California, a regulation implementing Section 316(b) of the U.S. Clean Water Act was approved in September 2010. Upon assessment, the regulation was determined to require significant remediation capital expenditures, resulting in a pre-tax impairment expense of $200 million. In Hungary, as previously discussed in first quarter 2010, continued regulatory and commodity price changes combined with lower demand and margins based on contract negotiations in the third quarter, resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax impairment charge of $85 million. Finally, at the Company's merchant generation business in Texas, lower dispatch during the quarter, when coupled with near-term commodity price outlook, caused the Company to record a goodwill impairment charge of $18 million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q3 2010 as compared to Q3 2009
 
See Appendix for more detail.
Key drivers of the YTD 2010 results include (comparison of Q3 YTD 2010 vs. Q3 YTD 2009):
During the first nine months of 2010, AES benefited from higher volume and rates at its generation businesses in Asia and at its utilities in Latin America. Additionally, the Company benefited from favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in Brazil. These benefits were offset by unfavorable margins at the Company's merchant generation facilities in North America, a higher tax expense because of the expiration of a favorable U.S. tax law on December 31, 2009 related to the treatment of certain non-U.S. transactions, and a higher share count.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q3 YTD 2010 as compared to Q3 YTD 2009
 
See Appendix for more detail.
2010 Guidance
The Company maintained its 2010 Gross Margin guidance and increased its Consolidated and Proportional Free Cash Flow guidance ranges by $175 million and $50 million, respectively. For full year Adjusted EPS, the Company reaffirmed a range of $0.90 to $0.95. To reflect impairments recorded in the third quarter, the Company lowered its full year Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations guidance to $0.63 to $0.68 from $0.80 to $0.85.
The above guidance is based on foreign exchange and commodity forward prices as of September 30, 2010, as well as extension of a favorable U.S. tax provision affecting cash distributions from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. For a complete list of 2010 guidance elements and reconciliations to GAAP, see Appendix.
:
Other Key Highlights
Third Quarter 2010
 
 
October 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Operating Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Segment Information, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information and 2010 Financial Guidance.
Conference Call Information
AES will host a conference call on Thursday, November 4, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Interested parties may listen to the teleconference by dialing 1-888-566-7708 at least ten minutes before the start of the call. International callers should dial +1-517-308-9025. The participant passcode for this call is 1104. Internet access to the conference call and presentation materials will be available on the AES website at www.aes.com by selecting "Investor Information" and then "Quarterly Financial Reports."
A telephonic replay of the call will be available from approximately 1:00 p.m. EDT on Thursday, November 4, 2010 through Thursday, November 25, 2010. Callers in the U.S. please dial 1-800-879-7966. International callers should dial +1-402-220-5346. The system will ask for a passcode; please enter 1104. A webcast replay, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, will be accessible at www.aes.com beginning shortly after the completion of the call.
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 500 global power company with generation and distribution businesses. Through our diverse portfolio of thermal and renewable fuel sources, we provide affordable and sustainable energy to 29 countries. Our workforce of 27,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2009 revenues were $14 billion and we own and manage $40 billion in total assets. To learn more, please visit .
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but
 
 
are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated on or about February 25, 2010 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may be obtained by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parent only data: last four quarters
 
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2010 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(1)
 
 


