FILE:AES/AES-8K-20110601170145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 27, 2011, The AES Corporation ("AES" or the "Company") entered into a $1.05 billion credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), dated as of May 27, 2011, among The AES Corporation, as borrower, the banks listed therein (the "Banks") and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (the "Agent"), and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book-runners, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as co-syndication agents and Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole CIB, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities, Scotia Capital and Union Bank, N.A., as Co-Managers. The Credit Agreement provides for borrowings in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.05 billion (the "Facility"; and the loans thereunder, the "Loans"). The proceeds of the Facility will be used for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, at the borrower's election the financing of a portion of the purchase price and related expenses in connection with the borrower's contemplated acquisition of DPL Inc.
Borrowings under the Facility are subject to customary conditions to borrowing and will bear interest at a variable annual rate based on BBA LIBOR plus 3.25% or Base Rate plus 2.25%. The Facility will mature on the seventh anniversary of the closing date.
Subject to the following sentence, the Facility is voluntarily prepayable from time to time without premium or penalty. AES shall pay a prepayment premium in connection with any prepayment, repayment or amendment of the Loans with the proceeds of, or any conversion of the Loan into any new or replacement or amended tranche of term loans bearing interest at an "effective" interest rate less than the "effective" interest rate applicable to the Loans, on or before the first anniversary of the closing date. Consistent with the terms of the Company's existing revolver and term loan, the Facility is mandatorily prepayable with the net cash proceeds of certain dispositions of assets and upon the occurrence of a change of control.
The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations, covenants and events of default. Failure to meet the covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in acceleration of the Loans and/or termination of the Facility.
The foregoing is a summary of certain terms of the Credit Agreement and is neither complete nor inclusive of all material terms. The foregoing summary of the Credit Agreement is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Credit Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
(d) Exhibit
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of May 27, 2011 (this "") among THE AES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED, J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC and MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC., as Joint Lead Arrangers (the "") and Joint Book Runners (the ""), J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC and MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC. as Co-Syndication Agents (the ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a "").
Agreement
Borrower
Joint Lead Arrangers
Joint Book Runners
Co-Syndication Agents
Agent
Banks
Bank
PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS:
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Banks each make a single Term Loan to the Borrower on the Closing Date in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The Banks have indicated their willingness to agree to make such Loan, but only on the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including causing the Obligations of the Borrower under the Financing Documents to be secured by the Collateral pursuant to the Collateral Documents.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, the parties hereto hereby covenant and agree as follows:
Section 1.01 .
Definitions
The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.10(b)(ii).
Acceptance Notice
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.17.
Accepting Banks
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.18.
Act
"" means the "Additional Collateral" referred to in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral
"" means any bank, other financial institution or institutional investor that, in any case, is not an existing Bank and that agrees to provide any portion of any (a) Credit Agreement Refinancing Indebtedness pursuant to a Refinancing Amendment in accordance with Section 2.16 or (b) Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.17; that each Additional Term Loan Bank (other than any Person that is a Bank, an Affiliate of a Bank or an Approved Fund of a Bank at such time) shall be subject to the approval of the Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), in each case to the
Additional Term Loan Bank
provided
extent any such consent would be required from the Agent under Section 10.06(c) for an assignment of Loans to such Additional Bank.
"" means, for any period, (i) Parent Operating Cash Flow for such period (ii) the sum of the following expenses (determined without duplication), in each case to the extent paid by the Borrower during such period in cash and regardless of whether any such amount was accrued during such period:
Adjusted Parent Operating Cash Flow
less
(A) income tax expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than income tax expenses of Subsidiaries that are not organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof); and
(B) corporate overhead expenses (including rental expense of the Borrower).
For purposes of determining Adjusted Parent Operating Cash Flow for any period, the contribution to Parent Operating Cash Flow for such period from any Subsidiary not organized under the law of the United States or any State thereof shall be reduced (but not below zero) in the amount of any Investment made in such Subsidiary during such period (for the purpose of permitting such Subsidiary to pay income taxes during such period) by the Borrower or any Qualified Holding Company having an interest in such Subsidiary.
"" means, with respect to each Bank Party, an administrative questionnaire in the form attached as Exhibit K hereto and submitted to the Agent (with a copy to the Borrower) duly completed by such Bank.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its successors.
AES
"" means a Power Supply Business or other business owned, operated or managed (including on a joint basis with others), directly or indirectly, by the Borrower.
AES Business
"" means AES International Holdings II, Ltd., a company organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands.
AES BVI II
"" means (i) any Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls the Borrower (a ""), or (ii) any Person (other than the Borrower or a Subsidiary) which is controlled by or is under common control with a Controlling Person or (iii) as to any Person (other than the Borrower and its Subsidiaries), any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person. As used herein, the term "control" means possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
Controlling Person
"" means Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as Agent for the Bank Parties hereunder, and its successors in such capacity.
Agent
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.11.
Agent Parties
"" has the meaning set forth in the recital of the parties to this Agreement.
Agreement
"" means, with respect to any Bank Party, (i) in the case of its Base Rate Loans, its Domestic Lending Office and (ii) in the case of its Eurodollar Loans, its Eurodollar Lending Office.
Applicable Lending Office
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Bank, (b) an Affiliate of a Bank or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Bank.
Approved Fund
"" means, collectively, the Joint Lead Arrangers, the Joint Book Runners and the Co-Syndication Agents.
Arranger Parties
"" means any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition (including any such transaction effected by way of merger or consolidation or by way of an Equity Issuance by a Subsidiary) by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, but excluding any transactions permitted by the provisions of Section 5.18 of the Existing Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date hereof without giving effect to any amendment, waiver or modification after the date hereof as to such Section 5.18 without the consent of the Required Banks) (other than sales of assets or Equity Interests of, or other Investments in, IPALCO or any of its Subsidiaries or AES Hawaii Management Company, Inc., AES New York Funding, L.L.C., AES Oklahoma Holdings, L.L.C. and AES Warrior Run Funding, L.L.C. or a respective Subsidiary thereof permitted by subsection (iv) thereof); that a disposition of such assets not excluded during any fiscal year shall not constitute an Asset Sale unless and until (and only to the extent that) the aggregate Net Cash Proceeds from such disposition, when combined with all other such dispositions previously made during such fiscal year, exceeds $50,000,000.
Asset Sale
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.14(d).
Assigned Agreements
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(c).
Assignee
"" means an assignment and assumption agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto.
Assignment and Assumption
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17(c)(ii).
Assumption Agreement
"" means the present value (discounted at the rate of 9.75% per annum compounded monthly) of the obligations for rental payments required to be paid during the remaining term of any lease of more than 12 months.
Attributable Debt
"" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph to this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns as permitted hereunder, each of which is referred to herein as a "Bank". For avoidance of doubt, each Additional Term Loan Bank is a Bank to the extent any such Person has executed and delivered an Incremental Amendment, as the case may
Bank
 
be, and to the extent such Incremental Amendment shall have become effective in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof, and each Accepting Bank shall continue to be a Bank.
"" means Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of America
"" means any Bank.
Bank Party
"" means, in respect of any Net Cash Proceeds, a percentage of the Creditors' Portion equal to a fraction (x) the numerator of which is the Total Bank Exposure at such time and (y) the denominator of which is the sum of the Total Bank Exposure at such time the aggregate principal amount of First Priority Secured Debt, the proceeds of which were used to permanently reduce Total Bank Exposure.
Banks' Ratable Share
plus
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate," (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1.00% and (d) 2.00%. The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such prime rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "" herein.
Base Rate Borrowing
Borrowing
"" means a Loan which bears interest at the Base Rate pursuant to the applicable Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election or the provisions of Section 2.07(a) or Article VIII the Base Rate Margin.
Base Rate Loan
plus
"" means (i) in respect of the Initial Term Loans, a rate per annum equal to 2.25%, (ii) in respect of the Other Term Loans, a rate per annum to be agreed in the applicable Refinancing Amendment and (iii) in respect of the Incremental Term Loan Facility, a rate per annum to be agreed to by the Borrower, the Agent and the Incremental Term Loan Banks.
Base Rate Margin
"" means, at any time, an employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA which is not a Plan or a Multiemployer Plan and which is maintained or otherwise contributed to by any member of the ERISA Group.
Benefit Arrangement
"" has the meaning set forth in the recital of the parties to this Agreement.
Borrower
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.11(c).
Borrower Materials
"" means (i) a borrowing hereunder consisting of Initial Term Loans made to the Borrower at the same time by the Initial Term Loan Banks pursuant to Section 2.01, (ii) a borrowing hereunder consisting of Other Term Loans made to the Borrower at the same
Borrowing
 
time by the Other Term Loan Banks pursuant to Section 2.16, or (iii) a borrowing hereunder consisting of Incremental Term Loans made to the Borrower at the same time by the Incremental Term Loan Banks pursuant to Section 2.17. A Borrowing is a "" if such Loans are Base Rate Loans or a "" if such Loans are Eurodollar Loans.
Base Rate Borrowing
Eurodollar Borrowing
"" means either (i) a Domestic Business Day or (ii) a Eurodollar Business Day, as applicable.
Business Day
"" means the Pledge Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002, made by AES BVI II in favor of the Collateral Trustees.
BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement
"" means the "Collateral" referred to in the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement.
BVI Collateral
"" means any AES Business located in the Republic of Cameroon, including, without limitation, AES-SONEL S.A., a socit anonyme organised and existing under the laws of Cameroon.
Cameroon Business
"" means any contractual commitment or obligation under an equity contribution or other agreement the primary purpose of which is for the Borrower to provide to an AES Business a portion of the capital required to finance construction projects, the acquisition of additional assets or capital improvements being undertaken by such AES Business.
Capital Commitment
"" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participants or other equivalents (however designated, whether voting or non-voting) of, or interests in (however designated), the equity of such Person which is outstanding or issued on or after the date of this Agreement, including, without limitation, all common stock and preferred stock and partnership and joint venture interests of such Person.
Capital Stock
"" means any entity that is a controlled foreign corporation under Section 957 of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor provision thereto).
CFC
"" means the occurrence of one or more of the following events: (i) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Borrower (determined on a consolidated basis) to any Person or group (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of Persons, (ii) a Person or group (as so defined) of Persons shall have become the beneficial owner of more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Borrower, or (iii) during any one-year period, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors (together with any new director whose election or nomination was approved by a majority of the directors then in office who were either directors at the beginning of such period or who were previously so approved) cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors.
Change of Control
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.10(b)(ii).
Change of Control Prepayment
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.10(b)(ii).
Change of Control Prepayment Offer
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.10(b)(ii).
Change of Control Prepayment Date
"" means the first date all of the conditions precedent in Article III are satisfied or waived in accordance with Section 10.05.
Closing Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the recital of the parties to this Agreement.
Co-Syndication Agents
"" means the Creditor Group Collateral.
Collateral
"" has the meaning as set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Collateral Account
"" means the Security Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement, the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement and any other agreement that creates or purports to create a Lien in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders.
Collateral Documents
"" means the Collateral Trust Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 made by the grantors thereunder in favor of the Collateral Trustees, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 29, 2003, Amendment No. 2 dated as of March 17, 2004, Amendment No. 3 dated as of August 20, 2009 and as further amended from time to time.
Collateral Trust Agreement
"" has the meaning as set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Collateral Trustees
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17(a).
Commitment Increase
"" means any special purpose corporation organized and administered by any Bank for the purpose of making Loans hereunder otherwise required to be made by such Bank and designated by such Bank in a written instrument, subject to the consent of the Agent and the Borrower (which, in each case, shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that the designation by any Bank of a Conduit Bank shall not relieve the designating Bank of any of its obligations to fund a Loan under the Agreement if, for any reason, its Conduit Bank fails to fund any such Loan, and the designating Bank (and not the Conduit Bank) shall have the sole right and responsibility to deliver all consents and waivers required or requested under this Agreement with respect to its Conduit Bank, and that no Conduit Bank shall be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to Section 8.03, 8.04 or 10.03 than the designating Bank would have been entitled to receive in respect of the extensions of credit made by such Conduit Bank.
Conduit Bank
provided
provided further
"" means the aggregate amount of assets (less reserves and other deductible items) after deducting current liabilities, as shows on the consolidated
Consolidated Net Assets
 
balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries contain in the latest annual report to the stockholders of the Borrower and prepared in accordance with GAAP.
"" means, at any date with respect to any Person, any Subsidiary of such Person or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of such Person in its consolidated financial statements if such statements were prepared as of such date.
Consolidated Subsidiary
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "" herein.
Controlling Person
Affiliate
"" has the meaning set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Credit Agreement Documents
"" means any Debt incurred pursuant to a Refinancing Amendment, in each case, issued, incurred or otherwise obtained (including by means of the extension or renewal of existing Debt) in exchange for, or to extend, renew, replace or refinance, in whole or part, existing Term Loans (including any successive Credit Agreement Refinancing Indebtedness) (""); that (i) such Debt has a later maturity than, and an average life to maturity equal to or greater than, the Refinanced Term Debt, (ii) the terms and conditions of such Debt (except as otherwise provided in clause (i) above and with respect to pricing and optional prepayment or redemption terms) are substantially identical to, or (taken as a whole) are no more favorable to the lenders or holders providing such Debt, than those applicable to the Refinanced Term Debt (except for covenants or other provisions applicable only to periods after the latest Termination Date applicable to such Refinanced Term Debt at the time of incurrence of such Debt) ( that a certificate of a Responsible Officer delivered to the Agent at least five Domestic Business Days prior to the incurrence of such Debt, together with a reasonably detailed description of the material terms and conditions of such Debt or drafts of the documentation relating thereto, stating that the Borrower has determined in good faith that such terms and conditions satisfy the requirement of this clause (ii) shall be conclusive evidence that such terms and conditions satisfy such requirement unless the Agent notifies the Borrower within such five Domestic Business Day period that it disagrees with such determination (including a description of the basis upon which it disagrees)) and (iii) such Refinanced Term Debt shall be repaid, defeased or satisfied and discharged, and all accrued interest, fees and premiums (if any) in connection therewith shall be paid, on the date such Credit Agreement Refinancing Indebtedness is issued, incurred or obtained.
Credit Agreement Refinancing Indebtedness
Refinanced Term Debt
provided
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.03.
Credit Party
"" means the Security Agreement Collateral, the Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral and the BVI Collateral.
Creditor Group Collateral
"" means, in respect of any Net Cash Proceeds, (i) 60% of such Net Cash Proceeds at any time that the Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio is greater than or equal to 5.0:1.0 or (ii) 50% of such Net Cash Proceeds at any time that the Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio is less than 5.0:1.0.
Creditors' Portion
 
"" of any Person means at any date, without duplication, (i) all Obligations of such Person for borrowed money; (ii) all Obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments; (iii) all Obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business; (iv) all Obligations of such Person as lessee which are capitalized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; (v) all Obligations (whether contingent or non-contingent) of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts paid under a letter of credit, surety or performance bond or similar instrument; (vi) all Debt secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Debt is otherwise an obligation of such Person; (vii) all Debt of others Guaranteed by such Person and (viii) all Redeemable Stock of such Person valued at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends. For purposes hereof, contingent obligations of the type described in clause (v) of this definition with respect to letters of credit shall not be treated as "Debt" hereunder to the extent that such obligations are cash collateralized. The obligations of the Borrower under any Capital Commitment or under any agreement, in the form of indemnity or contingent equity contribution agreement or otherwise, pursuant to which the Borrower agrees to protect any Person, in whole or in part, from tax liabilities, environmental liabilities, political risks, including currency convertibility and transferability risk and changes in law, or construction cost overruns shall not constitute Debt. For the avoidance of doubt, Qualified Equity-Linked or Hybrid Securities shall not be considered Debt for any purpose of this Agreement (other than for purposes of Section 6.01 hereof).
Debt
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default or which with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means, any Bank that, as reasonably determined by the Agent, (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder, including in respect of its Loans, within three Domestic Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, unless the subject of a good-faith dispute (b) has notified the Agent or the Borrower that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations generally or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or generally, under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three Domestic Business Days after request by the Agent, to confirm in a manner satisfactory to the Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations hereunder unless the subject of a good-faith dispute, or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment. Any determination that a Bank is a Defaulting Bank under clauses (a) through (d) above will be made by the Agent in its
Defaulting Bank
 
reasonable discretion acting in good faith; that a Bank shall not be a Defaulting Bank solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Bank or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a governmental authority or any instrumentality thereof; that no Initial Term Loan Bank shall be considered a Defaulting Bank in its capacity as an Initial Term Loan Bank. The Agent will promptly send to all parties hereto a copy of any notice to the Agent provided for in this definition.
provided
provided further
"" of any Person means all obligations of such Person in respect of any rate swap transaction, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity swap, commodity option, equity or equity index swap, equity or equity index option, bond option, interest rate option, credit derivative transaction, foreign exchange transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, currency swap transaction, cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option or any other similar transaction (including any option with respect to any of the foregoing transactions) or any combination of the foregoing transactions; that Derivatives Obligations shall not include any obligations of such Person in relation to an equity forward contract, equity or equity index swap or equity or equity index option pertaining, linked or indexed to the common stock of such Person or any affiliate thereof. For purposes of determining the aggregate amount of Derivative Obligations on any date or the Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio on any date, the Derivative Obligations of the applicable Person in respect of any Hedge Agreement shall be the maximum aggregate amount (after giving effect to any netting agreements to the extent such netting agreements are with the same Person to whom any such Derivative Obligations are owed or with Affiliates of such Person) that the applicable Person would be required to pay if such Hedge Agreement were terminated at such time.
Derivatives Obligations
provided
"" means matters disclosed in any SEC Filings made prior to May 9, 2011 or in written materials sent by or on behalf of the Borrower to all of the Bank Parties prior to May 27, 2011.
Disclosed Matters
"" or "" means United States dollars.
Dollars
$
"" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized by law to close.
Domestic Business Day
"" means, as to each Bank Party, its office located at its address set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its Administrative Questionnaire as its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office as such Bank Party may hereafter designate as its Domestic Lending Office by notice to the Borrower and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
"" means any and all federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, judicial decisions, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, plans, injunctions, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements and other governmental restrictions relating to the environment, the effect of the environment on human health or to emissions, discharges or releases of pollutants, contaminants, Hazardous Substances or wastes into the environment, including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, ground water or land, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, Hazardous Substances or wastes or the clean-up or other remediation thereof.
Environmental Laws
 
"" means, at any date:
Equity Credit Preferred Securities
(i) Debt of the Borrower (A) that is owed to a Special Purpose Financing Subsidiary of the Borrower; (B) that is issued in connection with the issuance by such Special Purpose Financing Subsidiary of Existing Trust Preferred Securities; (C) that is subordinated in right of payment to other Debt of the Borrower of at least the types and to at least the extent as was, on the date of issuance thereof, the Junior Subordinated Debentures issued by AES in connection with the issuance by AES Trust III of its $3.375 Term Convertible Securities, Series C, on October 7, 1999 (or otherwise satisfactory to the Agent); and (D) as to which, at such date, AES has the right to defer the payment of all interest for the period of at least 19 consecutive quarters beginning at such date; and
(ii) Guarantees by the Borrower of the obligations of the issuer of any Existing Trust Preferred Securities in respect of such Existing Trust Preferred Securities; and
(iii) Mandatorily convertible securities (such as those known as "DECS" (including tax deductible DECS)) consisting of Debt of the Borrower that is subordinated in right of payment to other Debt of the Borrower of at least the types and to at least the extent as was, on the date of issuance thereof, the Junior Subordinated Debentures issued by the Borrower in connection with the issuance by AES Trust III of its $3.375 Term Convertible Securities, Series C, on October 7, 1999, (or otherwise satisfactory to the Agent) and which is mandatorily convertible into, or redeemable with the proceeds of, Capital Stock of the Borrower (other than Redeemable Stock).
"" means, with respect to any Person, shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or other acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or other acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including, without limitation, partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are authorized or otherwise existing on any date of determination; that Equity Interest shall not include Trust Preferred Securities (other than the Existing Trust Preferred Securities) or any debt security that constitutes Debt and is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Equity Interests.
Equity Interest
provided
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor statute.
ERISA
"" means the Borrower, its Subsidiaries and all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Group
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "" herein.
Eurodollar Borrowing
Borrowing
"" means any Domestic Business Day on which commercial banks are open for international business (including dealings in dollar deposits) in London.
Eurodollar Business Day
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.06(c).
Eurodollar Default Rate
"" means, as to each Bank Party, its office, branch or affiliate located at its address set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its Administrative Questionnaire as its Eurodollar Lending Office) or such other office, branch or affiliate of such Bank Party as it may hereafter designate as its Eurodollar Lending Office by notice to the Borrower and the Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
"" means a Loan which bears interest at the Eurodollar Rate pursuant to the applicable Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election the Eurodollar Margin.
Eurodollar Loan
plus
"" means (i) in respect of the Initial Term Loans, a rate per annum equal to 3.25%, (ii) in respect of the Other Term Loans, a rate per annum to be agreed in the applicable Refinancing Amendment and (iii) in respect of the Incremental Term Loan Facility, a rate per annum to be agreed to by the Borrower, the Agent and the Incremental Term Loan Banks.
Eurodollar Margin
"" means:
Eurodollar Rate
(a) for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Loan, the rate per annum equal to (i) the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or such other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as may be designated by the Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Eurodollar Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period or, (ii) if such rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Loan being made, continued or converted and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Eurodollar Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period and (b) for any interest calculation with respect to a Base Rate Loan on any date, the rate per annum equal to (i) BBA LIBOR, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time determined two Eurodollar Business Days prior to such date for Dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the date of determination in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Base Rate Loan being made or maintained and with a term equal to one month would be offered by
BBA LIBOR
 
Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market at their request at the date and time of determination. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Eurodollar Rate shall at all times at least equal or exceed 1.00%.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01.
Event of Default
"" means any AES Business located in Brazil or Argentina; that the Borrower may by written notice to the Agent make an election not to treat one or more AES Businesses in Brazil or Argentina as an "Excluded AES Business". Once the Borrower elects not to treat an AES Business as an "Excluded AES Business" it may not thereafter change or revoke such election with respect to such AES Business without the consent of the Required Banks.
Excluded AES Business
provided
"" means the Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of July 29, 2010, among the Borrower, Citicorp USA, Inc., as Agent, the guarantors party thereto and the other lenders party thereto.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means the $3.375 Trust Preferred Securities, Series C issued by AES Trust III on October 7, 1999.
Existing Trust Preferred Securities
"" means a Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.01 or Section 2.17.
Extension of Credit
"" means the Initial Term Loan Facility, any Other Term Loan Facility made available to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.16 and any Incremental Term Loan Facility made available to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.17.
Facilities
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Domestic Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Domestic Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Domestic Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Domestic Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Domestic Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
"" means this Agreement, the Collateral Documents and the Term Loan Notes.
Financing Documents
"" means (i) the Bank Parties hereunder and (ii) the "Bank Parties" under and as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement.
Financing Parties
 
"" means Debt of the Borrower secured by a first-priority lien on the Creditor Group Collateral (subject to the limitations set forth in Section 5.10), that Debt owed to an Affiliate of the Borrower shall not be First Priority Secured Debt.
First Priority Secured Debt
provided
"" means and Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
"" means indebtedness for borrowed money having a maturity of, or by its terms extendible or renewable for, a period of more than 12 months after the date of determination of the amount thereof.
Funded Debt
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02.
GAAP
"" means each of the Borrower, AES BVI II, AES Hawaii Management Company, Inc., AES New York Funding, L.L.C., AES Oklahoma Holdings, L.L.C. and AES Warrior Run Funding, L.L.C.
Grantor
"" means, at any time, a group of Loans consisting of (i) all Loans which are Base Rate Loans at such time or (ii) all Eurodollar Loans having the same Interest Period at such time; that if a Loan of any particular Bank is converted to or made as a Base Rate Loan pursuant to Article VIII, such Loan shall be included in the same Group or Groups of Loans from time to time as it would have been in if it had not been so converted or made.
Group of Loans
provided
"" by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such Person (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to take-or-pay or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (ii) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part); that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business or, for the avoidance of doubt, obligations of the Borrower to provide capital to an AES Business under a Capital Commitment. The term "Guarantee" used as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
provided
"" means any toxic, radioactive, caustic or otherwise hazardous substance, including petroleum, its derivatives, by-products and other hydrocarbons, or any substance having any constituent elements displaying any of the foregoing characteristics.
Hazardous Substances
"" means any contract, instrument or agreement in respect of Derivative Obligations.
Hedge Agreement
 
"" means any Bank Party or an Affiliate of a Bank Party in its capacity as a party to a Secured Hedge Agreement.
Hedge Bank
"" means, with respect to any Person, any securities of such Person that, at the time of issuance, received at least two of the following treatments: (a) "intermediate equity content" or better equity treatment from Standard & Poor's Rating Services, (b) "Basket C Equity Credit" or better equity treatment from Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and (c) "Class C- Moderate Equity Content" or better equity treatment from Fitch IBCA, Inc.; that to the extent any such category of a rating agency is no longer in existence, the applicable references in this definition shall be deemed to be a reference to the nearest equivalent category of such rating agency.
Hybrid Securities
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17(b).
Increase Commitment Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17(a).
Increase Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17(b).
Incremental Amendment
"" means each term loan made by an Incremental Term Loan Bank under the Incremental Term Loan Facility in accordance with the terms of Section 2.17.
Incremental Term Loan
"" means each Bank (including any Additional Term Loan Bank) having an Incremental Term Loan.
Incremental Term Loan Bank
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Incremental Term Loans of the same type made by the Incremental Term Loan Banks.
Incremental Term Borrowings
"" means, with respect to each Incremental Term Loan Bank, the amount set forth for such Bank in respect of the Incremental Term Loan Facility in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 10.06(g).
Incremental Term Loan Commitment
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.17(a).
Incremental Term Loan Facility
"" means a promissory note of the Borrower to the order of any Incremental Term Loan Bank, in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto (with such modifications as the Borrower and the Agent may agree are necessary to evidence the terms of the Incremental Term Loan Facility), evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from the Incremental Term Loan deemed to have been made by such Bank.
Incremental Term Loan Note
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Termination Date" herein.
Incremental Term Loan Termination Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.03(b).
Indemnitee
"" means each Term Loan made hereunder in accordance with the terms of Section 2.01 and each Initial Term Loan made as a result of a Commitment Increase in accordance with the terms of Section 2.17.
Initial Term Loan
 
"" means each Bank (including any Additional Term Loan Bank) having an Initial Term Loan.
Initial Term Loan Bank
"" means, with respect to each Initial Term Loan Bank, the amount set forth opposite its name on Appendix I hereto or, if such Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Assumptions or Assumption Agreements or is an Additional Term Loan Bank, the amount set forth for such Bank in respect of the Initial Term Loan Facility in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 10.06(g).
Initial Term Loan Commitment
"" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Initial Term Loan Banks' Initial Term Loans at such time.
Initial Term Loan Facility
"" means a promissory note of the Borrower to the order of any Initial Term Loan Bank, in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from the Initial Term Loan deemed to have been made by such Bank.
Initial Term Loan Note
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Termination Date" herein.
Initial Term Loan Termination Date
"" means, with respect to each Eurodollar Loan, the period commencing on the date of borrowing specified in the applicable Notice of Borrowing or on the date specified in an applicable Notice of Interest Rate Election and ending one, two, three, six or, with the consent of all affected Banks, nine or twelve months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect in such notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
(i) any Interest Period which would otherwise end on a day which is not a Eurodollar Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Eurodollar Business Day unless such Eurodollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Eurodollar Business Day;
(ii) any Interest Period which begins on the last Eurodollar Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall, subject to clause (iii) below, end on the last Eurodollar Business Day of a calendar month; and
(iii) (x) with respect to any Initial Term Loans, any Interest Period that would otherwise end after the Initial Term Loan Termination Date shall end on the Initial Term Loan Termination Date, (y) with respect to any Other Term Loans, any Interest Period that would otherwise end after the applicable Other Term Loan Termination Date shall end on the applicable Other Term Loan Termination Date and (z) with respect to any Incremental Term Loans, any Interest Period that would otherwise end after the applicable Incremental Term Loan Termination Date shall end on the applicable Incremental Term Loan Termination Date.
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor statute.
Internal Revenue Code
 
"" means any investment in any Person, whether by means of share purchase, capital contribution, loan, Guarantee, time deposit or otherwise (but not including any demand deposit).
Investment
"" means Ipalco Enterprises, Inc., an Indiana corporation.
IPALCO
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the parties to this Agreement.
Joint Book Runners
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the parties to this Agreement.
Joint Lead Arrangers
"" has the meaning set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Lender Parties
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement that has the practical effect of creating a security interest, in respect of such asset. For the purposes of this Agreement, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset which it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset.
Lien
"" means a Term Loan, which may be a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Loan and "" means Term Loans, each of which may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Loans or any combination of the foregoing.
Loan
Loans
"" means a material adverse effect on (i) the business, consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial condition or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (ii) the ability of the Borrower to perform its material obligations under any Financing Document or (iii) the rights of and remedies available to any Bank Party under any Financing Document.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means any obligation or liability in an amount equal to or in excess of $100,000,000.
Material Obligation
"" of any Person means, as of any date, any Subsidiary of which such Person's proportionate share of such Subsidiary's total assets (after intercompany eliminations) exceeds 15% of the total assets of such Person on a consolidated basis.
Material Subsidiary
"" means (i) A-1 for Standard & Poor's Ratings Services; (ii) P-1 for Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; (iii) F-1 for Fitch IBCA, Inc. and (iv) D-1 for Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co.
Minimum CP Rating
"" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which any member of the ERISA Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions or has within the preceding five plan years made contributions, including for these purposes any Person which ceased to be a member of the ERISA Group during such five year period.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" with respect to any Asset Sale, means cash payments received (including any cash payments received by way of deferred payment of principal pursuant to a note or installment receivable or otherwise, but only as and when received (including any cash received upon sale or disposition of such note or receivable), excluding any other consideration received in the form of assumption by the acquiring Person of Debt or other obligations relating to the property disposed of in such Asset Sale or received in any other noncash form) therefrom, in each case, net of:
Net Cash Proceeds
(i) all legal, title and recording tax expenses, commissions and other customary fees and expenses incurred (including, without limitation, consent and waiver fees and any applicable premiums, earn-out or working interest payments or payments in lieu or in termination thereof), and all federal, state, provincial, foreign and local taxes payable to the relevant tax authority (x) as a direct consequence of such Asset Sale, (y) as a result of the required repayment of any Debt in any jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction where the property disposed of was located or (z) as a result of any repatriation to the U.S. of any proceeds of such Asset Sale,
(ii) a reasonable reserve (which reserve if required by the applicable sale agreement, shall be deposited into a third party escrow account with an escrow agent and shall be maintained in such account until such time as the applicable indemnification obligation expires or the amounts on deposit are required to make indemnification payments) for any indemnification payments (fixed and contingent) attributable to seller's indemnities to the purchaser undertaken by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with such Asset Sale (but excluding any payments, which by the terms of the indemnities will not, under any circumstances, be made prior to the Initial Term Loan Termination Date); that any amounts in such reserve to the extent not paid to the purchaser as an indemnification payment after the expiration of any applicable time period set forth in the agreements in respect of such Asset Sale shall be treated as "Net Cash Proceeds" for all purposes of this Agreement,
provided
(iii) all payments made on any Debt which must by its terms or by applicable law be repaid out of the proceeds from such Asset Sale, and
(iv) all required distributions and other required payments made to minority interest holders in Subsidiaries or joint ventures as a result of such Asset Sale;
that for purposes of determining Net Cash Proceeds received by a Subsidiary required to be applied pursuant to Section 2.10, only that portion of such Net Cash Proceeds received by the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents from such Subsidiary in accordance with Section 5.17 shall be included.
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.16.
Non-Consenting Bank
"" means (i) as of the Closing Date, each of the direct Subsidiaries of the Borrower or of AES BVI II listed on Schedule III or (ii) after the Closing Date, in addition to the "Non-Pledged Subsidiaries" set forth on Schedule III, any newly formed
Non-Pledged Subsidiaries
 
or acquired direct (1) Subsidiary of the Borrower whose aggregate assets have a fair market value not in excess of $3,000,000 and, together with the fair market value of the assets of all Non-Pledged Subsidiaries (other than any Subsidiary which is described in clause (2) below), does not exceed $50,000,000 or (2) Subsidiaries of the Borrower for which a grant or perfection of a Lien on such Subsidiary's stock would require approvals and consents from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of, such Subsidiary.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02.
Notice of Borrowing
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.07(a).
Notice of Interest Rate Election
"" means, with respect to any Person, any payment, performance or other obligation of such Person of any kind, including, without limitation, any liability of such Person on any claim, whether or not the right of any creditor to payment in respect of such claim is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured, and whether or not such claim is discharged, stayed or otherwise affected by any proceeding referred to in Section 6.01(d) or (e). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Obligations of the Borrower under the Financing Documents include (i) the obligation to pay principal, interest, charges, expenses, fees, attorneys' fees and disbursements, indemnities and other amounts payable by the Borrower under any Financing Document and (ii) the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse any amount in respect of any of the foregoing that any Bank Party, in its sole discretion, may elect to pay or advance on behalf of the Borrower.
Obligation
"" means, with respect to any Person, any Obligation of such Person under a synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP, if such Obligations would give rise to a claim against such Person in a proceeding referred to in Section 6.01(d).
Off Balance Sheet Obligation
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04(b).
Other Taxes
"" means one or more tranches of Loan commitments hereunder that result from a Refinancing Amendment.
Other Term Commitments
"" means each Bank (including any Additional Term Loan Bank) having an Other Term Loan.
Other Term Loan Bank
"" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Other Term Loan Banks' Other Term Loans at such time.
Other Term Loan Facility
"" means a promissory note of the Borrower to the order of any Other Term Loan Bank, in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto (with such modifications as the Borrower and the Agent may agree are necessary to evidence the terms of the Other Term Loan Facility), evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from the Other Term Loans deemed to have been made by such Bank.
Other Term Loan Note
 
"" means one or more tranches of Loan that result from a Refinancing Amendment.
Other Term Loans
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Termination Date".
Other Term Loan Termination Date
"" means, with respect to any Bank Party, any Person controlling such Bank Party.
Parent
"" means, for any period, the sum of the following amounts (determined without duplication) as calculated below:
Parent Operating Cash Flow
(i) dividends paid to the Borrower by its Subsidiaries during such period;
(ii) consulting and management fees paid to the Borrower for such period;
(iii) tax sharing payments made to the Borrower during such period;
(iv) interest and other distributions paid to the Borrower during such period with respect to cash and other Temporary Cash Investments of the Borrower;
(v) cash payments made to the Borrower in respect of foreign exchange Hedge Agreements or other foreign exchange activities entered into by the Borrower on behalf of any of its Subsidiaries; and
(vi) other cash payments made to the Borrower by its Subsidiaries other than (A) returns of invested capital; (B) payments of the principal of Debt of any such Subsidiary to the Borrower and (C) payments in an amount equal to the aggregate amount released from debt service reserve accounts upon the issuance of letters of credit for the account of the Borrower and the benefit of the beneficiaries of such accounts.
For purposes of determining Parent Operating Cash Flow:
(1) the aggregate net cash payments received by a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders as and to the extent required by the Collateral Documents during any period which could have been (without regard for any cash held by such Qualified Holding Company at the beginning of such period), but were not, paid as a dividend to the Borrower during such period due to tax or other cash management considerations may be included in Parent Operating Cash Flow for such period; that any amounts so included will not be included in Parent Operating Cash Flow if and when paid to the Borrower in any subsequent period; and
provided
(2) Net Cash Proceeds from Asset Sales shall not be included in Parent Operating Cash Flow for any period.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(b).
Participant
 
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
"" means, one or more amendments providing for an extension of the final maturity date of any Loan and/or any commitment of the Accepting Banks (provided, that such extensions may not result in having more than eight different final maturity dates under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed)) and, in connection therewith and subject to the limitations set forth in Section 10.17, any change in the Base Rate Margin and/or Eurodollar Margin and other pricing with respect to the applicable Loans and/or commitments of the Accepting Banks and the payment of any fees (including prepayment premiums or fees) to the Accepting Banks (such changes and/or payments to be in the form of cash, equity interest or other property as agreed by the Borrower and the Accepting Banks to the extent not prohibited by this Agreement).
Permitted Amendment
"" means, with respect to any Person, (i) a line of business which is substantially the same line of business as one or more of the principal businesses of such Person and its Subsidiaries, (ii) a line of business which is complementary or ancillary to, one or more of the principal businesses of such Person and its Subsidiaries, (iii) any energy business, (iv) any infrastructure business, (v) any power business, (vi) any public utility business, (vii) the ownership, extraction, processing, transportation, distribution and sales of fossil fuels and derivatives thereof, (viii) any line of business relating or in connection with, climate solutions, carbon offsets, biofuels or battery storage and (ix) any business ancillary, complementary or related to any of the business described in clauses (i) through (viii), including without limitation trading activities.
Permitted Business
"" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Person
"" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code and either (i) is maintained, or contributed to, by any member of the ERISA Group for employees of any member of the ERISA Group or (ii) has at any time within the preceding five years been maintained, or contributed to, by any Person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group for employees of any Person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group.
Plan
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.11(c).
Platform
"" means a direct Subsidiary of the Borrower or AES BVI II listed on Schedule I hereto, whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders by the Borrower or AES BVI II, as applicable, pursuant to the Security Agreement or the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement.
Pledged Subsidiary
"" means an electric power or thermal energy generation or cogeneration facility or related facilities, or an electric power transmission, distribution, fuel
Power Supply Business
 
supply and fuel transportation facilities, or any combination thereof (all subject to relevant security, if any, under related project financing arrangements), together with its or their related power supply, thermal energy and fuel contracts as well as other contractual arrangements with customers, suppliers and contractors.
"" means any building, structure or other facility (together with the land on which it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof) used primarily for manufacturing, processing, research, warehousing or distribution, owned or leased by the Borrower and having a net book value in excess of 2% of Consolidated Net Assets, other than any such building, structure or other facility or portion thereof which is a pollution control facility financed by state or local governmental obligations or which the principal executive officer, president and principal financial officer of the Borrower determine in good faith is not of material importance to the total business conducted or assets owned by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as an entirety.
Principal Property
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.11(c).
Public Bank
"" means preferred stock, mandatorily convertible debt securities and Hybrid Securities, in each case, that does not constitute Redeemable Stock.
Qualified Equity-Linked or Hybrid Securities
"" means any Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower that satisfies, and all of whose direct or indirect holding companies (other than the Borrower) are Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiaries of AES that satisfy, the following conditions:
Qualified Holding Company
(i) its direct and indirect interest in any AES Business shall be limited to the ownership of Capital Stock or Debt obligations of a Person with a direct or indirect interest in such AES Business;
(ii) except as a result of the Financing Documents (and permitted refinancings thereof), no consensual encumbrance or restriction of any kind shall exist on its ability to make payments, distributions, loans, advances or transfers to the Borrower;
(iii) it shall not have outstanding any Debt other than Guarantees of Debt under, or Liens constituting Debt under, the Financing Documents (and permitted refinancings thereof) and Debt to the Borrower or to other Qualified Holding Companies (other than AES BVI II);
(iv) it shall engage in no business or other activity, shall enter into no binding agreements and shall incur no obligations (other than agreements with, and obligations to, the Borrower or other Qualified Holding Companies (other than AES BVI II)) other than (A) the holding of the Capital Stock and Debt obligations permitted under clause (i) above, including entering into retention agreements and subordination agreements relating to such Capital Stock and Debt, (B) the holding of cash received from its Subsidiaries and the investment thereof in Temporary Cash Investments, (C) the payment of dividends and other amounts to the Borrower, (D) ordinary business development activities, (E) the making (but not the entering into binding obligations to make) of
 
Investments in AES Businesses owned by its Subsidiaries, and (F) entering into foreign exchange Hedge Agreements in respect of dividends received or expected to be received from Subsidiaries of such Qualified Holding Company, in a notional amount not to exceed $100,000,000 outstanding at any time for each Qualified Holding Company and for a term of no more than six months from the date the relevant Hedge Agreement is entered into; and
(v) is listed on Schedule IV hereto (as supplemented from time to time by written notice to the Agent by the Borrower).
"" means each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15.
Quarterly Payment Date
"" means, on any date, the sum of (i) Debt of the Borrower (other than (x) Equity Credit Preferred Securities, (y) Qualified Equity-Linked or Hybrid Securities and (z) undrawn letters of credit supporting business development activities) plus (ii) Derivative Obligations of the Borrower plus (iii) Off Balance Sheet Obligations of the Borrower.
Recourse Debt
"" means, for any period, the ratio of:
Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio
(i) the sum of the Recourse Debt as of the end of such period to;
(ii) the Adjusted Parent Operating Cash Flow during such period.
"" means any class or series of Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities of any Person that by its terms or otherwise is (i) required to be redeemed prior to the date that is 180 days following the Initial Term Loan Termination Date (other than a redemption solely in the form of Capital Stock that does not constitute Redeemable Stock), (ii) redeemable at the option of the holder of such class or series of Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities at any time prior to the date that is 180 days following the Initial Term Loan Termination Date or (iii) convertible into or exchangeable for (unless solely at the option of such person) Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above or Debt having a scheduled maturity prior to the date that is 180 days following the Initial Term Loan Termination Date; that any Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities that would not constitute Redeemable Stock but for provisions thereof giving holders thereof the right to require such person to repurchase or redeem such Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities upon the occurrence of an "asset sale" or a "change of control" occurring prior to the date that is 180 days following the Initial Term Loan Termination Date shall not constitute Redeemable Stock if such Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities specifically provides that such person will not repurchase or redeem any such Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities pursuant to such provisions unless such repurchase or redemption is permitted under the terms of this Agreement.
Redeemable Stock
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Credit Agreement Refinancing Indebtedness".
Refinanced Term Debt
"" means an amendment to this Agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and the Borrower executed by each of (a) the Borrower, (b) the Agent and (c) each Additional Term Loan Bank and Bank, as the case may be,
Refinancing Amendment
 
that agrees to provide any portion of the Credit Agreement Refinancing Indebtedness being incurred pursuant thereto, in accordance with Section 2.16.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(g).
Register
"" means Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Regulation U
"" means with respect to any Bank that is an investment fund, any other investment fund that invests in commercial loans that is managed by the same investment advisor as such Bank or by an Affiliate of such Bank or such investment advisor.
Related Fund
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means the prepayment or refinancing of all or a portion of the Term Loans with the incurrence by the Borrower of a new or replacement tranche of term loans incurred for the primary purpose of repaying, refinancing, substituting or replacing the Term Loans and having an effective interest cost or weighted average yield (taking into account original issue discount and upfront fees, which shall be deemed to constitute like amounts of original issue discount, being equated to interest margins as determined by the Agent consistent with generally accepted financial practice based on an assumed four year life to maturity, and, in any event, excluding any arrangement or commitment fees in connection therewith) that is less than the interest rate for or weighted average yield (as determined by the Agent on the same basis) of the Term Loans being repaid, refinanced, substituted or replaced, including without limitation, as may be effected through any amendment to this Agreement relating to the interest rate for, or weighted average yield of, the Term Loans.
Repricing Transaction
"" means, at any time, Bank Parties owed or holding more than 50% in interest of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding at such time; that the Term Loans of any Defaulting Bank shall be disregarded in the determination of the Required Banks at any time, except that (x) the Term Loan Commitment of any Defaulting Bank may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Bank and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Banks or each affected Bank that by its terms affects any Defaulting Bank more adversely than other affected Banks shall require the consent of such Defaulting Bank.
Required Banks
provided
"" means any duly authorized officer of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Responsible Officer
"" means public filings made by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q or Form 10-K, and any filed amendments to any of the foregoing.
SEC Filings
"" means, with respect to the sum of the aggregate principal amount of indebtedness and Debt described in Section 5.10(a) and Section 5.10(b), an amount equal to $3,000,000,000; that any Liens on the Creditor Group Collateral securing Debt
Secured Debt Limit
provided
 
of the Borrower that is junior and second-priority to the First Priority Secured Debt shall not constitute Debt that is limited by Section 5.10(b).
"" means any Hedge Agreement permitted under Article V that (i) is entered into by and between the Borrower and any Hedge Bank and (ii) specifies by its terms that it is secured by the Collateral.
Secured Hedge Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Secured Holders
"" has the meaning set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Secured Obligations
"" means the Security Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 made by the grantors thereunder in favor of the Collateral Trustees, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 29, 2003 and as further amended from time to time.
Security Agreement
"" means the "Collateral" referred to in the Security Agreement.
Security Agreement Collateral
"" means the Security Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement, the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement and any other agreement that creates or purports to create a Lien in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the Lender Parties.
Shared Collateral Documents
"" and "" mean, with respect to any Person on a particular date, that on such date (i) the fair value of the property of such Person is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, contingent liabilities, of such Person, (ii) the present fair salable value of the assets of such Person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (iii) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or liabilities beyond such Person's ability to pay such debts and liabilities as they mature and (iv) such Person is not engaged in business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in business or a transaction, for which such Person's property would constitute an unreasonably small capital. The amount of contingent liabilities at any time shall be computed as the amount that, in the light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability.
Solvent
Solvency
"" means a Consolidated Subsidiary that has no direct or indirect interest in a Power Supply Business or other AES Business and was formed solely for the purpose of issuing Trust Preferred Securities.
Special Purpose Financing Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person.
Subsidiary
"" means, at any time, Bank Parties owed or holding at least a 66 2/3% interest of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding at such time; that the Term Loans of any Defaulting Bank shall be disregarded in the determination
Supermajority Banks
provided
 
of the Supermajority Banks at any time, except that (x) the Term Loan Commitment of any Defaulting Bank may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Bank and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Banks or each affected Bank that by its terms affects any Defaulting Bank more adversely than other affected Banks shall require the consent of such Defaulting Bank.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04(a).
Taxes
"" means any Investment (having a maturity of not greater than 60 days from the date of issuance thereof) in (A)(i) direct obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, or obligations guaranteed by the United States or any agency thereof; (ii) commercial paper rated at least the Minimum CP Rating by any two of Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Fitch IBCA, Inc. and Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co., that one of such two Minimum CP Ratings is by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services or Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; (iii) time deposits with, including certificates of deposit issued by, any office located in the United States of any bank or trust company which is organized or licensed under the laws of the United States or any state thereof and has capital, surplus and undivided profits aggregating at least $500,000,000; (iv) medium term notes, auction rate preferred stock, asset backed securities, bonds, notes and letter of credit supported instruments, issued by any entity organized under the laws of the United States, or any state or municipality of the United States and rated in any of the three highest rated categories by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services or Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; (v) repurchase agreements with respect to securities described in clause (i) above entered into with an office of a bank or trust company meeting the criteria specified in clause (iii) above; (vi) Eurodollar certificates of deposit issued by any bank or trust company which has capital and unimpaired surplus of not less than $500,000,000 or (vii) with respect to a Subsidiary, any category of investment designated as permissible investments under such Subsidiary's loan documentation; that in each case (except clause (vii)) that such Investment matures within 15 months from the date of acquisition thereof by the Borrower or a Subsidiary and (B) registered investment companies that are "money market funds" within the meaning of Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Temporary Cash Investment
provided
provided
"" means each Initial Term Loan, each Other Term Loan and each Incremental Term Loan.
Term Loan
"" means each Initial Term Loan Bank, each Other Term Loan Bank and each Incremental Term Loan Bank.
Term Loan Bank
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Term Loans of the same type made by the appropriate Term Loan Banks.
Term Borrowings
"" means the Initial Term Loan Commitments of the Initial Term Loan Banks at such time, the Other Term Loan Commitments of the Other Term Loan Banks at such time and the Incremental Term Loan Commitments of the Incremental Term Loan Banks at such time.
Term Loan Commitments
 
"" means the Initial Term Loan Facility, the Other Term Loan Facility and the Incremental Term Loan Facility.
Term Loan Facilities
"" means the Initial Term Loan Notes, the Other Term Loan Notes and the Incremental Term Loan Notes.
Term Loan Notes
"" means (i) the seventh anniversary of the Closing Date, in the case of the Initial Term Loan Facility (the ""), (ii) the date agreed to by the Borrower, the Agent and the Incremental Term Loan Banks in the case of any Incremental Term Loan Facility (the "") and (iii) the final maturity date as specified in the applicable Refinancing Amendment in the case of any Other Term Loans (the "") ; , in each case, that if the applicable Termination Date occurs on a day that is not a Eurodollar Business Day, such Termination Date shall occur on the next succeeding Eurodollar Business Day unless such Eurodollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Termination Date shall be the next preceding Eurodollar Business Day.
Termination Date
Initial Term Loan Termination Date
Incremental Term Loan Termination Date
Other Term Loan Termination Date
provided
"" at any time means the sum of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding at such time.
Total Bank Exposure
"" means at any time in respect of a Term Loan Bank the sum of such Term Loan Bank's Initial Term Loan Commitment at such time plus such Term Loan Bank's Incremental Term Loan Commitment and Other Term Loan Commitment at such time.
Total Term Loan Commitments
"" means, at any date:
Trust Preferred Securities
(i) any Existing Trust Preferred Securities, and
(ii) any other equity interests in a Special Purpose Financing Subsidiary of AES (such as those known as "TECONS", "MIPS" or "RHINOS"): (I) that are not (A) required to be redeemed or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof prior to the fifth anniversary of the Initial Term Loan Termination Date or (B) convertible into or exchangeable for (unless solely at the option of AES) equity interests referred to in clause (A) above or Debt having a scheduled maturity, or requiring any repayments or prepayments of principal or any sinking fund or similar payments in respect of principal or providing for any such repayment, prepayment, sinking fund or other payment at the option of the holder thereof prior to the fifth anniversary of the Initial Term Loan Termination Date and (II) as to which, at such date, AES has the right to defer the payment of all dividends and other distributions in respect thereof for the period of at least 19 consecutive quarters beginning at such date.
"" means, with respect to any Plan at any time, the amount (if any) by which (i) the value of all benefit liabilities under such Plan, determined on a plan termination basis using the assumptions prescribed by the PBGC for purposes of Section 4044 of ERISA, exceeds (ii) the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such liabilities under Title IV of ERISA (excluding any accrued but unpaid contributions), all determined as of the then most recent valuation date for such Plan, but only to the extent that such excess represents a
Unfunded Liabilities
 
potential liability of a member of the ERISA Group to the PBGC or any other Person under Title IV of ERISA.
"" means the United States of America, including the States and the District of Columbia, but excluding its territories and possessions.
United States
"" means with respect to any Person, Capital Stock of any class or kind ordinarily having the power to vote for the election of directors of such Person or other Persons performing similar functions.
Voting Stock
"" means any Consolidated Subsidiary all of the shares of Capital Stock or other ownership interests of which (except directors' qualifying shares and shares owned by foreign nationals mandated by applicable law) are at the time directly or indirectly owned by AES.
Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary
Section 1.02 .
Accounting Terms and Determinations
Unless otherwise specified herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made, and all financial statements required to be delivered hereunder shall be prepared, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent (except for changes concurred in by the Borrower's independent public accountants) with the most recent audited consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries delivered to the Banks (""); that, if the Borrower notifies the Agent that the Borrower wishes to amend any calculation of the "Recourse Debt to Cash Flow Ratio" to eliminate the effect of any change in generally accepted accounting principles on the operation of such calculation (or if the Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Banks wish to amend such calculation for such purpose), then the Borrower's compliance with such calculation shall be determined on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles in effect immediately before the relevant change in generally accepted accounting principles became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such calculation is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Required Banks.
GAAP
provided
Section 1.03 .
Types of Borrowing
The term "" denotes (a) the aggregation of Loans made (or deemed to have been made) or to be made to the Borrower by one or more Banks pursuant to Article II on the same day, all of which Loans are of the same type (subject to Article VIII) and, except in the case of Base Rate Loans, have the same initial Interest Period or (b) if the context so requires, the borrowing of such Loans. Borrowings are classified for purposes hereof by reference to the pricing of Loans comprising such Borrowing (, a "" is a Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Loans). It is understood and agreed that all Borrowings will be made in Dollars.
Borrowing
e.g.
Eurodollar Borrowing
 
Section 2.01 .
Commitment to Lend
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Bank severally agrees to make a single Initial Term Loan to the Borrower on the Closing Date in a principal amount equal to 99.5% of such Bank's Initial Term Loan Commitment under the Initial Term Loan Facility; that the principal amount of Initial Term Loans deemed to have been made hereunder shall be an amount equal to 100% of the Initial Term Loan Commitments. The Borrowing of Initial Term Loans shall consist of Initial Term Loans made simultaneously by the Banks in accordance with their respective Initial Term Loan Commitments. The Term Loans are not revolving in nature, and amounts repaid or prepaid in respect thereof may not be reborrowed.
provided
Section 2.02 .
Notice of Borrowing
(a) The Borrower shall give the Agent notice (a "") not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on (x) the date of each Base Rate Borrowing and (y) the third Eurodollar Business Day before each Eurodollar Borrowing, specifying:
Notice of Borrowing
(i) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Domestic Business Day in the case of a Base Rate Borrowing or a Eurodollar Business Day in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing;
(ii) the aggregate amount of such Borrowing;
(iii) whether the Loans comprising such Borrowing are to bear interest initially at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar Rate; and
(iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the duration of the initial Interest Period applicable thereto, subject to the provisions of the definition of "Interest Period."
(b) Upon receipt of a Notice of Borrowing, the Agent shall promptly notify each Bank of the contents thereof and of such Bank's ratable share of such Borrowing and such Notice of Borrowing shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower.
(c) Not later than 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of each Borrowing, each Bank shall (except as provided in subsection (d) of this Section 2.02) make available its ratable share of such Borrowing, in Federal or other funds immediately available in New York City, to the Agent at its address referred to in Section 7.11. Unless the Agent determines that any applicable condition specified in Article III has not been satisfied, the Agent will make the funds so received from the Banks available to the Borrower requesting such Borrowing at the Agent's aforesaid address.
(d) [Intentionally Omitted.]
 
(e) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Bank prior to the date of any Borrowing that such Bank will not make available to the Agent such Bank's share of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Bank has made such share available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsections (c) and (d) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Bank shall not have so made such share available to the Agent, such Bank and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, a rate per annum equal to the higher of the Federal Funds Rate and the interest rate applicable thereto pursuant to Section 2.06 and (ii) in the case of such Bank, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Bank shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Bank's Loan included in such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
Section 2.03 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 2.04 .
Evidence of Debt
(a) Each Bank Party shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank Party resulting from each Loan owing to such Bank Party from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Bank Party from time to time hereunder. The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Bank Party to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness is required or appropriate in order for such Bank Party to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Loans owing to, or to be made by, such Bank Party, the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Bank Party, with a copy to the Agent, a Term Loan Note in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, payable to the order of such Bank Party in a principal amount equal to the Loans owing to, or to be made by, such Bank Party. All references to Term Loan Notes in the Financing Documents shall mean Term Loan Notes, if any, issued hereunder.
(b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 10.06(g) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Bank Party, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Loan made hereunder (or deemed to be made hereunder), whether such Loan bears interest at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar Rate, and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto; (ii) the terms of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it; (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Bank Party hereunder; and (iv) the amount of any sums received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Bank Party's share thereof.
(c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Bank Party in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each
prima facie
 
Bank Party and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Bank Party, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Bank Party to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts, shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
provided
however
Section 2.05 .
Maturity of Loans
(a) The Borrower shall repay the Initial Term Loans (i) on each Quarterly Payment Date beginning on June 15, 2011 and prior to the Initial Term Loan Termination Date in an aggregate principal amount equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the Initial Term Loans and (ii) on the Initial Term Loan Termination Date in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Initial Term Loans then outstanding (together with interest accrued thereon). Each Other Term Loan shall mature, and the principal amount thereof shall be due and payable (together with interest accrued thereon) on the Other Term Loan Termination Date in respect of such Other Term Loan Facility and (c) each Incremental Term Loan shall mature, and the principal amount thereof shall be due and payable (together with interest accrued thereon) on the Incremental Term Loan Termination Date in respect of such Incremental Term Loan Facility.
Section 2.06 .
Interest Rates
(a) Each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for each day from the date such Loan is made until it becomes due, at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate Margin applicable to such Loan the Base Rate for such day. Such interest shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Quarterly Payment Date.
plus
(b) Each Eurodollar Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for each day during each Interest Period applicable thereto, at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Eurodollar Margin applicable to such Loan for such day the Eurodollar Rate applicable to such Interest Period. Such interest shall be payable for each Interest Period on the last day thereof and, if such Interest Period is longer than three months, at intervals of three months after the first day thereof.
plus
(c) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(a) or an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(d) or 6.01(e) with respect to the Borrower, the Borrower shall pay interest on (x) (i) the outstanding principal amount of each Base Rate Loan owing to each Bank Party, payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Base Rate Loan pursuant to Section 2.06(a) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, at a rate per annum equal to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on the Base Rate Loans on which such interest has accrued pursuant to Section 2.06(a) above and (y)(i) the outstanding principal amount of each Eurodollar Loan owing to each Bank Party payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to a rate per annum equal to the sum of 2% the Eurodollar Margin applicable to such Loan the Eurodollar Rate applicable to such Eurodollar Loan (the "") and (ii) to
plus
plus
Eurodollar Default Rate
 
the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Default Rate for the Eurodollar Loans on which such interest has accrued pursuant to Section 2.06(b) above.
(d) The Agent shall determine each interest rate applicable to the Loans hereunder. The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the participating Banks of each rate of interest so determined, and its determination thereof shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
Section 2.07 .
Method of Electing Interest Rates
(a) The Loans included in each Borrowing shall bear interest initially at the type of rate specified by the Borrower in the applicable Notice of Borrowing. Thereafter, the Borrower may from time to time elect to change or continue the type of interest rate borne by each Group of Loans (subject to Section 2.07(d) and the provisions of Article VIII), as follows:
(i) if such Loans are Base Rate Loans, the Borrower may elect to convert such Loans to Eurodollar Loans as of any Eurodollar Business Day;
(ii) if such Loans are Eurodollar Loans, the Borrower may elect to convert such Loans to Base Rate Loans as of any Domestic Business Day or elect to continue such Loans as Eurodollar Loans for an additional Interest Period, subject to Section 2.12 if any such conversion is effective on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period applicable to such Loans.
Each such election shall be made by delivering a notice (a "") to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Eurodollar Business Day before the conversion or continuation selected in such notice is to be effective (unless the relevant Loans are to be converted from Eurodollar Loans to Base Rate Loans, in which case such notice shall be delivered to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date such conversion is to be effective). A Notice of Interest Rate Election may, if it so specifies, apply to only a portion of the aggregate principal amount of the relevant Group of Loans; that (i) such portion is allocated ratably among the Loans comprising such Group of Loans and (ii) the portion to which such Notice applies, and the remaining portion to which it does not apply, are each at least $5,000,000 (unless such portion is comprised of Base Rate Loans). If no such notice is timely received before the end of an Interest Period for any Group of Loans consisting of all Eurodollar Loans, the Borrower shall be deemed to have elected that such Group of Loans be converted to Base Rate Loans at the end of such Interest Period.
Notice of Interest Rate Election
provided
(b) Each Notice of Interest Rate Election shall specify:
(i) the Group of Loans (or portion thereof) to which such notice applies;
(ii) the date on which the conversion or continuation selected in such notice is to be effective, which shall comply with the applicable clause of Section 2.07(a) above;
 
(iii) if the Loans comprising such Group are to be converted, the new type of Loans and, if the Loans resulting from such conversion are to be Eurodollar Loans, the duration of the next succeeding Interest Period applicable thereto; and
(iv) if such Loans are to be continued as Eurodollar Loans for an additional Interest Period, the duration of such additional Interest Period.
Each Interest Period specified in a Notice of Interest Rate Election shall comply with the provisions of the definition of Interest Period.
(c) Promptly after receiving a Notice of Interest Rate Election from the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.07(a) above, the Agent shall notify each Bank of the contents thereof and such notice shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall not be entitled to elect to convert any Loans to, or continue any Loans for an additional Interest Period as, Eurodollar Loans if (i) the aggregate principal amount of any Group of Loans consisting of all Eurodollar Loans created or continued as a result of such election would be less than $5,000,000 or (ii) a Default shall have occurred and be continuing when the Borrower delivers notice of such election to the Agent.
(e) If any Loan is converted to a different type of Loan, the Borrower shall pay, on the date of such conversion, the interest accrued to such date on the principal amount being converted.
Section 2.08 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 2.09 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 2.10 .
Prepayment of the Loans
(a) . (i) Subject in the case of any Eurodollar Loans to Section 2.12, the Borrower may, upon at least one Domestic Business Day's notice to the Agent, prepay any Loans that bear interest at the Base Rate or upon at least three Eurodollar Business Days' notice to the Agent, prepay any Eurodollar Loans, in each case in whole at any time, or from time to time in part in amounts aggregating $5,000,000 or any larger multiple of $1,000,000, by paying the principal amount to be prepaid together with accrued interest thereon to the date of prepayment; , that in the event that, on or prior to the first anniversary of the Closing Date, the Borrower (x) makes any prepayment of Initial Term Loans in connection with any Repricing Transaction or (y) effects any amendment to this Agreement resulting in a Repricing Transaction, the Borrower shall pay to the Agent, for the ratable account of each of the applicable Banks, (I) in the case of clause (x), a prepayment premium of 1% of the amount of the Term Loans being prepaid and (II) in the case of clause (y), an amount equal to 1% of the aggregate amount of the applicable Term Loans outstanding immediately prior to such amendment that were repriced pursuant to such amendment. Upon receipt of a notice of prepayment pursuant to this Section 2.10(a)(i), the Agent shall promptly notify each Bank of the contents thereof and of such Bank's ratable share of such prepayment and such notice shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower.
Optional
provided
 
(ii) Notwithstanding anything in any Financing Document to the contrary, the Borrower may, pursuant to the procedures and in the manner set forth on Schedule 2.10, make an offer to prepay outstanding Loans at a discount to par and make a prepayment with respect to such Loans; that, both at the time of any such offer and at the time of any such prepayment, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom. Upon the completion of any prepayment made in connection with a transaction pursuant to this Section 2.10(a)(ii) and Schedule 2.10, the Loans subject to such prepayment shall be deemed satisfied and of no further force and effect.
provided
(b) . (i) The Borrower shall, on the third Domestic Business Day following the receipt by the Borrower after the Closing Date of Net Cash Proceeds from any Asset Sales, offer to prepay, on a pro rata basis, an aggregate principal amount of the Term Loans in an amount equal to the Banks' Ratable Share of such Net Cash Proceeds and the Term Loan Banks shall have the option to accept or refuse such prepayment in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 2.10(c).
Mandatory
(ii) Upon a Change of Control, the Borrower shall make an offer to prepay (a "") the entire principal amount of the Term Loans (the "") at 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof and the Borrower shall notify the Agent in writing of the Change of Control Prepayment Offer in writing within 30 days after the date of such Change of Control. Each such notice shall specify the date of such prepayment and provide a reasonably detailed calculation of the amount of such prepayment and include the payment date (which shall be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date of the Change of Control Prepayment Offer) (the ""). The Agent will promptly notify each Bank of the contents of any such prepayment notice and of such Bank's pro rata share of the prepayment. Any Bank may elect, by delivering a written notice (an "") no later than three Domestic Business Days prior to the Change of Control Prepayment Date, that any Change of Control Prepayment be made with respect to all or any portion of the Term Loans held by such Bank pursuant to this Section 2.10(b)(ii). If a Bank fails to deliver an Acceptance Notice within the time frame specified above, any such failure will be deemed a rejection of the Change of Control Prepayment Offer as to all outstanding Term Loans of such Bank.
Change of Control Prepayment
Change of Control Prepayment Offer
Change of Control Prepayment Date
Acceptance Notice
(c) . With respect to any prepayment of a Term Loan Facility pursuant to Section 2.10(b)(i) above, the Borrower shall notify the Agent by 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on or before the third Domestic Business Day after the Borrower is in receipt of the applicable Net Cash Proceeds of the receipt of such Net Cash Proceeds and its offer to prepay the Term Loans on the fourth Domestic Business Day following receipt of such notice by the Agent. The Agent shall then notify each of the Term Loan Banks of such offer. Each Term Loan Bank, at its option, may elect not to accept such prepayment. Any Term Loan Bank declining such prepayment shall give written notice to the Agent by 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the third Domestic Business Day immediately following the date the Term Loan Banks receive notice of such prepayment. If a Term Loan Bank fails to give notice by 12:00 Noon (New York City time) as set forth in the immediately preceding sentence, such Term Loan Bank shall be deemed to have accepted the offer. Any amounts that would otherwise have
Term Loan Opt-Out
 
been applied to prepay such declining Term Loan Bank shall instead be retained by the Borrower.
(d) Any prepayment of Term Loans pursuant to this Section 2.10 shall be applied to the remaining scheduled installments of the Term Loans as directed by the Borrower.
Section 2.11 .
General Provisions as to Payments
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment of principal of, and interest on, the Loans and of fees hereunder, not later than 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the date when due, in Federal or other funds immediately available in New York City, without set-off, counterclaim or other deduction, to the Agent at its address referred to in Section 7.11. The Agent will promptly distribute to each Bank Party (subject to clause (c) below) its ratable share of each such payment received by the Agent for the account of the Bank Parties. Whenever any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Base Rate Loans or of fees shall be due on a day which is not a Domestic Business Day, the date for payment thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Domestic Business Day. Whenever any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Eurodollar Loans shall be due on a day which is not a Eurodollar Business Day, the date for payment thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Eurodollar Business Day unless such Eurodollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case the date for payment thereof shall be the next preceding Eurodollar Business Day. If the date for any payment of principal is extended by operation of law or otherwise, interest thereon shall be payable for such extended time.
(b) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due from the Borrower to the Bank Parties hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Bank Party on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Bank Party. If and to the extent that the Borrower shall not have so made such payment, each Bank Party shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Bank Party together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Bank Party until the date such Bank Party repays such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
(c) Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Agent under this Agreement for the account of a Defaulting Bank (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article VI or otherwise, and including any amounts made available to the Agent by that Defaulting Bank pursuant to clause (d) of this Section 2.11), shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Agent as follows: , to the payment of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Bank to the Agent hereunder; , as the Borrower may request (so long as no Default or Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Loan in respect of which that Defaulting Bank has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Agent; , if so determined by the Agent and the Borrower, to be held in a deposit account and released in order to satisfy obligations of that Defaulting Bank to fund Loans under this Agreement; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Banks as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by
first
second
third
fourth
 
any Bank against that Defaulting Bank as a result of that Defaulting Bank's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Default or Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrower against that Defaulting Bank as a result of that Defaulting Bank's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to that Defaulting Bank or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that if such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Loans in respect of which that Defaulting Bank has not fully funded its appropriate share, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Loans of all non-Defaulting Banks on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Loans of that Defaulting Bank. Promptly (x) upon a Bank ceasing to be a Defaulting Bank or (y) following termination of this Agreement and the payment of all amounts owed under this Agreement (other than unasserted contingent obligations which by their terms survive the termination of this Agreement), all amounts, if any, held in a segregated account pursuant to this Section 2.11(c) shall be returned to such Bank or Defaulting Bank, as applicable.
fifth
sixth
provided
(d) In the event that any Defaulting Bank shall exercise any right of setoff in respect of the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Bank under this Agreement, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11(c) and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Bank from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Agent and the Banks, and (y) the Defaulting Bank shall provide promptly to the Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Bank as to which it exercised such right of setoff.
(e) The obligations of the Banks hereunder to make Loans and to make payments pursuant to Section 10.03(d) are several and not joint. The failure of any Bank to make any Loan or payment pursuant to Section 10.03(d) on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Bank of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Bank shall be responsible for the failure of any other Bank to make its Loan or payment under Section 10.03(d).
Section 2.12 .
Funding Losses
If the Borrower makes any payment of principal with respect to any Eurodollar Loan or any Eurodollar Loan is converted to a Base Rate Loan (pursuant to Article II, VI or VIII or otherwise) on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto, or the last day of an applicable period fixed pursuant to Section 2.06(c), or if the Borrower fails to borrow, prepay, convert or continue any Eurodollar Loans after notice has been given to any Bank Party in accordance with Section 2.02(b), 2.07(c) or 2.10(a), the Borrower shall reimburse each Bank Party within 15 days after demand for any resulting loss or expense incurred by it (or by an existing or prospective Participant in the related Loan), including (without limitation) any loss incurred in obtaining, liquidating or employing deposits from third parties, but excluding loss of margin for the period after such payment or conversion or failure to borrow, prepay, convert or continue; that such Bank Party shall have delivered to the Borrower a certificate as to the amount of such loss or expense, which certificate shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
provided
 
Section 2.13 .
Computation of Interest and Fees
Interest based on the Base Rate hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and paid for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). All other interest and fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and paid for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Section 2.14 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 2.15 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 2.16 .
Refinancing Amendments
(a) At any time after the Closing Date, so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom, subject to the provisions of Section 2.10(a)(i), the Borrower may obtain, from any existing Bank or any Additional Term Loan Bank, Credit Agreement Refinancing Indebtedness in the form of Other Term Loans or Other Term Commitments in respect of all or any portion of the Term Loans then outstanding under this Agreement (which will be deemed to include any then-outstanding Other Term Loans) pursuant to a Refinancing Amendment. The effectiveness of any Refinancing Amendment shall be subject to, to the extent reasonably requested by the Agent, receipt by the Agent of legal opinions, board resolutions, officers' certificates and/or reaffirmation agreements consistent with those delivered on the Closing Date under Section 3.01. Each tranche of Credit Agreement Refinancing Indebtedness incurred under this Section 2.16 shall be in an aggregate principal amount that is (x) not less than $100,000,000 and (y) an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. The Agent shall promptly notify each Bank as to the effectiveness of each Refinancing Amendment. Each of the parties hereto hereby agrees that, upon the effectiveness of any Refinancing Amendment, this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent (but only to the extent) necessary to reflect the existence and terms of the Credit Agreement Refinancing Indebtedness incurred pursuant thereto. Any Refinancing Amendment may, without the consent of any other Banks, effect such amendments to this Agreement and the other Financing Documents as may be necessary or appropriate, in the reasonable opinion of the Agent and the Borrower, to effect the provisions of this Section. This Section 2.16 shall supersede any provisions in Section 10.04 or Section 10.05 to the contrary.
Section 2.17 .
Increase in Term Loan Commitments
(a) The Borrower may, at any time and from time to time, by notice to the Agent, request the addition of one or more new term loan facilities (each, an "") or one or more increases in the Commitments under a Term Loan Facility existing at the time of such request (each such Incremental Term Loan Facility or increase in Commitments under a pre-existing Term Loan Facility, a ""), to be effective as of a date (each, an "") as specified in the related notice to the Agent; , , that (i) in no event after giving effect to the funding of any such Commitment Increase shall the aggregate amount of all Commitment Increases incurred hereunder, exceed $750,000,000, (ii) on the date of any request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase and on
Incremental Term Loan Facility
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
provided
however
 
the related Increase Date, the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02 and in this Section 2.17 shall be satisfied and (iii) if the request is for an Incremental Term Loan Facility, such Incremental Term Loan Facility shall contain such other terms as may be agreed by the Borrower, the Agent and the Incremental Term Loan Banks; that (A) the final scheduled maturity date of the Incremental Term Loan Facility shall in no event be prior to the Initial Term Loan Termination Date, (B) no Bank shall have any obligation to participate in any Incremental Term Loan Facility or any Commitment Increase, (C) the weighted average life to maturity of any Incremental Term Loans shall be no shorter than the weighted average life to maturity of the then-outstanding Initial Term Loans and (D) solely with respect to any Incremental Term Loan Facility incurred on or before 24 months following the Closing Date, the interest rate margin (which shall be deemed for purposes of this Section to include all upfront or similar fees or original issue discount (other than customary underwriting or arranger fees, and with respect to original issue discount and upfront fees, determined based on an assumed four year life to maturity) or interest rate "floors" payable to all Banks providing such Incremental Term Facility) in respect of any Incremental Term Loans shall be the same as that applicable to the Initial Term Loans, except that the interest rate margin (determined as above) in respect of any Incremental Term Loans may exceed the interest rate margin (determined as above) for the Initial Term Loans, respectively, by no more than 0.50% (it being understood that any such increase may take the form of original issue discount, with original issue discount being equated to the interest rates in a manner reasonably determined by the Agent based on an assumed four-year life to maturity), or if it does so exceed such interest rate margin (determined as above), such interest rate margin shall be increased so that the interest rate margin (determined as above) in respect of such Incremental Term Loans, is no more than 0.50% higher than the interest rate margin (determined as above) for the Initial Term Loans.
provided
(b) Each notice from the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall set forth the requested amount of such Commitment Increase and, solely with respect to a notice requesting an Incremental Term Loan Facility, the proposed terms of the relevant Incremental Term Loan Facility. Loans made pursuant to any Commitment Increase may be made by any existing Bank (it being understood that no existing Bank will have an obligation to participate in any Commitment Increase) or by any Additional Term Loan Bank.
(c) Commitments in respect of Incremental Term Loans shall become Commitments under this Agreement pursuant to an amendment (an "") to this Agreement and, as appropriate, the other Financing Documents, executed by the Borrower, each Bank agreeing to provide such Commitment, if any, each Additional Term Loan Bank, if any, and the Agent. The Incremental Amendment may, without the consent of any other Banks, effect such amendments to this Agreement and the other Financing Documents as may be necessary or appropriate, in the reasonable opinion of the Agent and the Borrower, to effect the provisions of this Section 2.17. The effectiveness of (and, in the case of any Incremental Amendment for an Incremental Term Loan, the Borrowing under) any Incremental Amendment shall be subject to the satisfaction on the Increase Date of such conditions as the parties thereto shall agree (in addition to those set forth in this Section 2.17). The Borrower shall use the proceeds of Incremental Term Loans for any purpose not prohibited by this Agreement.
Incremental Amendment
(d) On the applicable Increase Date, each Additional Term Loan Bank that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase shall become a Bank party to
 
this Agreement as of the applicable Increase Date, and the Initial Term Loan Commitment or the Incremental Term Loan Commitment, as the case may be, of each Initial Term Loan Bank participating in such Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Initial Term Loan Bank as of the date of such Commitment Increase; , , that the Agent shall have received on or before the applicable Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
provided
however
(i) (A) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors (or a committee thereof) of the Borrower approving the applicable Commitment Increase and the corresponding modifications to this Agreement and (B) an opinion of counsel for the Borrower (which may be an opinion of in-house counsel), each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent;
(ii) an assumption agreement from each Additional Term Loan Bank, if any, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent (each an ""), duly executed by such Additional Term Loan Bank, the Agent and the Borrower; and
Assumption Agreement
(iii) confirmation from each Initial Term Loan Bank of the increase in the amount of its Initial Term Loan Commitment or Incremental Term Loan Commitment, as the case may be, in a writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent.
On the applicable Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.17(d) and the conditions set forth in Section 3.02, (x) the Agent shall notify the Initial Term Loan Banks and the Additional Term Loan Banks participating in such Commitment Increase and the Borrower, on or before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time), by telecopier or telex, of the occurrence of the applicable Commitment Increase to be effected on the related Increase Date, (y) each Initial Term Loan Bank participating in such Commitment Increase and each Additional Term Loan Bank participating in such Commitment Increase shall make a single advance to the Borrower in an amount equal to its agreed commitment in respect of the Commitment Increase; that after taking into account such advance, the aggregate principal amount of the Term Loans of each such participating Term Loan Bank shall not exceed such Term Loan Bank's Total Term Loan Commitments and (z) the Agent shall record in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 10.06(g) the relevant information with respect to each Initial Term Loan Bank and each Additional Term Loan Bank participating in such Commitment Increase on such date.
provided
Section 3.01 .
Closing
The obligation of each Bank to make Initial Term Loans on the Closing Date is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
 
(a) The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees of the Agent, the Arranger Parties and the Banks and all accrued expenses of the Agent (including, without limitation, all fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent payable pursuant to Section 10.03);
(b) The Agent shall have received, if requested, duly executed Notes of the Borrower for the account of each Bank that has so requested, dated on or before the Closing Date complying with the provisions of Section 2.04;
(c) The Agent shall have received (i) an opinion of the Assistant General Counsel of the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, (ii) an opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, special counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-2 hereto, (iii) an opinion of Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell, Delaware counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-3 hereto, (iv) an opinion of Maples and Calder, Cayman Islands counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-4 hereto, and (v) an opinion of Conyers Dill & Pearman, British Virgin Islands counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-5 hereto, each dated the Closing Date;
(d) The Agent shall have received evidence, satisfactory to it, in the form of pro forma calculations, that the making of Borrowings under this Agreement are permitted under the terms of the Debt of the Borrower outstanding on the Closing Date;
(e) The Agent shall have received a copy of the Borrower's written notice to the Collateral Trustees under the Collateral Trust Agreement, designating this Agreement and the Term Loan Notes as Debt (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement) which is to be secured by the Collateral (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement) under the Shared Collateral Documents (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement);
(f) The Agent shall have received copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors (or, in the case of any limited liability companies, Board of Representatives or the equivalent) of the Borrower authorizing the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Financing Documents to which it is a party, certified by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower (which certificate shall state that such resolutions are in full force and effect on the Closing Date);
(g) The Agent shall have received certified copies of all approvals, authorizations or consents of, or notices to or registrations with, any governmental body or agency required for the Borrower, if necessary, to enter into the Financing Documents to which it is a party;
(h) The Agent shall have received a certificate of a duly authorized officer of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign the Financing Documents to which it is a party and the other documents to be delivered by the Borrower hereunder;
(i) The Agent shall have received a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower dated the Closing Date, to the effect that: (i) the representations
 
and warranties contained in Article IV hereof are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of such date; and (ii) no Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the Borrowings requested by the Borrower to be made on such date;
(j) The Agent shall have received a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower to the effect that the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Financing Documents to which it is a party are within the Borrower's corporate or other organizational powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official (other than the filing of UCC-1 financing statements which have been made and are in effect, continuation statements which have been made and are in effect, and other filings required to perfect and maintain perfection of security interests) and do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of the certificate of incorporation (or certificate of formation, as applicable) or by-laws (or other organizational documents, as applicable) of the Borrower or of any agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or of AES BVI II or of any Material Subsidiary or of any Pledged Subsidiary (except for Liens created by the Financing Documents);that any foreclosure or other exercise of remedies by the Collateral Trustees will require additional approvals and consents that have not been obtained from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual parties of one or more Subsidiaries and failure to obtain such approval or consent could result in a default, or a breach of agreement or other legal obligations of such Subsidiaries;
provided
(k) The Agent shall have received all documents it may reasonably request relating to the existence of the Borrower, the corporate or other organizational authority for and the validity of this Agreement and the other Financing Documents, and any other matters relevant hereto, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent; and
(l) Each Bank shall have received, at least ten days prior to the Closing Date, all documentation and other information reasonably requested in writing by the Agent under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 7.03, for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this Section 3.01, each Bank that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Bank unless the Agent shall have received notice from such Bank prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
 
Section 3.02 .
Extension of Credit
The obligation of each Bank to make an Initial Term Loan on the Closing Date shall be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
(a) receipt by the Agent of a Notice of Borrowing;
(b) the fact that the making of the Initial Term Loans is permitted under the terms of the Debt of the Borrower outstanding on the Closing Date;
(c) the fact that, immediately before and after the making of the Initial Term Loans, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(d) the fact that the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in the Financing Documents shall be true on and as of the Closing Date.
The borrowing of the Initial Term Loans hereunder shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date of such borrowing as to the facts specified in clauses (b) through (d) of this Section.
The Borrower represents and warrants that:
Section 4.01 .
Corporate Existence and Power
The Borrower is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has all corporate powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted.
Section 4.02 .
Corporate and Governmental Authorization and Filings; No Contravention
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by each Grantor of the Financing Documents to which it is a party are within such Grantor's corporate or other organizational powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official (other than the filing of UCC-1 financing statements and other filings required to perfect security interests) and do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of the certificate of incorporation (or certificate of formation, as applicable) or by-laws (or other organizational documents, as applicable) of such Grantor or of any agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower, AES BVI II or of any
 
Material Subsidiary or of any Pledged Subsidiary (except for Liens created by the Financing Documents).
(b) All filings and other actions necessary to perfect the security interest granted by each Grantor in the Collateral created under the Collateral Documents have been duly made or taken and are in full force and effect, and (w) the Security Agreement creates in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders a valid and, together with such filings and other actions, perfected first priority security interest in the Security Agreement Collateral (subject to no Liens other than Liens permitted by the Financing Documents), securing the payment of the Secured Obligations, and (x) the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement creates in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders a valid and, together with such other actions, perfected first priority security interests in the BVI Collateral (subject to no Liens other than Liens permitted by the Financing Documents), securing the payment of the Secured Obligations and (y) the Collateral Trust Agreement creates in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders, a valid and, together with such filings and other actions, perfected first priority security interest in the Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral; that any foreclosure or other exercise of remedies by the Collateral Trustees will require additional approvals and consents that have not been obtained from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of one or more Subsidiaries and failure to obtain such approval or consent could result in a default, or a breach of agreement or other legal obligations of such Subsidiaries. The Borrower is the legal and beneficial owner of the Security Agreement Collateral and the Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral and AES BVI II is the legal and beneficial owner of the BVI Collateral, in each case free and clear of any Lien, except for Liens permitted by the Financing Documents.
provided
Section 4.03 .
Compliance with Laws
The Borrower is and each of its Subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and requirements of governmental authorities (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws and ERISA and the rules and regulations thereunder) except for any non-compliance that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 4.04 .
Binding Effect
This Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Borrower and each other Financing Document, when executed and delivered in accordance with this Agreement, will constitute a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower that is a party thereto, in each case enforceable in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.05 .
Financial Information
(a) The most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and the related consolidated statements of operations and cash flows, in each case reported on by Ernst & Young or other independent public accountants of nationally recognized standing and set forth in the Annual Report on Form 10-K most recently filed by the
 
Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission, fairly present, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, the consolidated financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for such fiscal year.
(b) Except for Disclosed Matters, since December 31, 2010 there has been no material adverse change in the business, financial position, results of operations or prospects of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, considered as a whole.
Section 4.06 .
Litigation
Except for Disclosed Matters, there is no action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding pending against, or to the knowledge of the Borrower threatened against or affecting, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official in which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse decision which could have a Material Adverse Effect or which in any manner draws into question the legality, validity or enforceability of any Financing Document, and there shall have been no change in the status of, or in the financial effect on the Borrower or its Subsidiaries from the actions, suits, investigations, litigations or proceedings set forth in the Disclosed Matters that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 4.07 .
Compliance with ERISA
Each member of the ERISA Group has fulfilled its obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code with respect to each Plan and is in compliance in all material respects with the currently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code with respect to each Plan. No member of the ERISA Group has (a) sought a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code in respect of any Plan; (b) failed to make any contribution or payment to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or in respect of any Benefit Arrangement, or made any amendment to any Plan or Benefit Arrangement, which has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other security under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code; or (c) incurred any liability in excess of $100,000 under Title IV of ERISA other than a liability to the PBGC for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA.
Section 4.08 .
Environmental Matters
(a) In the ordinary course of its business, each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries conducts an ongoing review of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated liabilities and costs (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently or previously owned, any capital or operating expenditures required for investigation, to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by Environmental Laws or as a condition of any license, permit or contract, any related constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat, any costs or liabilities in connection with
 
off-site disposal of wastes or Hazardous Substances by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Borrower has reasonably concluded that such associated liabilities and costs, including the costs of compliance with Environmental Laws, are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) There are no facts, circumstances or conditions that are reasonably likely to result in liabilities arising under Environmental Laws that could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial conditions, results of operations or prospects of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, considered as a whole.
Section 4.09 .
Taxes
United States Federal income tax returns of the Borrower, and of each Material Subsidiary that files separately from the Borrower, and any other material tax returns filed by them have been examined and closed (other than for the limited purposes of net operating loss carry-forwards) through the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, there are no ongoing or pending tax audits or examinations, and no deficiencies or other claims for unpaid taxes are proposed in respect of any taxes due from the Borrower or any such Material Subsidiary that could have a Material Adverse Effect. The Borrower, and all Material Subsidiaries that file separately from the Borrower, have filed all United States Federal income tax returns and the Borrower and all Material Subsidiaries that file separate from the Borrower, have filed all other material tax returns which are required to be filed by them, all such United States Federal income tax returns and all such other material returns are true, correct and complete in all material respects and all taxes due as indicated on such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Borrower or any such Material Subsidiary have been paid, other than any such taxes that are being diligently contested in good faith through appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Borrower and all Material Subsidiaries in respect of taxes or other governmental charges are, in the opinion of the Borrower, adequate.
Section 4.10 .
Material Subsidiaries
Each Material Subsidiary is a corporation (or limited liability company, as applicable) duly incorporated (or formed, as applicable), validly existing and (other than any Material Subsidiary that is not incorporated under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof) in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation (or jurisdiction of formation, as applicable). Each Material Subsidiary has all corporate or other organizational powers and all material governmental licenses, authorization, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as proposed to be conducted and has all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to have been obtained prior to the Closing Date and which are material to the operation of its business as proposed to be conducted, except to the extent that the failure to obtain any such license, authorization, consent or approval, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 4.11 .
Not an Investment Company
The Borrower is not an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Section 4.12 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 4.13 .
Full Disclosure
All information heretofore furnished by the Borrower to the Agent or any Bank Party for purposes of or in connection with any Financing Document or any transaction contemplated hereby or thereby is, and all such information hereafter furnished by the Borrower to the Agent or any Bank Party will be, true and accurate in all material respects on the date as of which such information is stated or certified in the light of the circumstances under which such information was provided (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished, when taken together as a whole and with the Disclosed Matters); that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based on assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time, it being recognized by the Bank Parties that such projections as to future events are not to be viewed as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by any such projections may differ from the projected results. The Borrower has disclosed to the Bank Parties, in the Disclosed Matters or otherwise in writing, any and all facts specific to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and known as of the Closing Date to a responsible officer of the Borrower that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, which materially and adversely affect or may affect (to the extent the Borrower can now reasonably foresee), the business, operations or financial condition of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under the Financing Documents.
provided
Section 4.14 .
Collateral Documents and Collateral
(a) (i) The execution, delivery, recordation, filing or performance by the Borrower and AES BVI II of the Collateral Documents; (ii) the grant by the Borrower and AES BVI II of the Liens granted by each of them pursuant to the Collateral Documents; (iii) the perfection or maintenance of the Liens created under the Collateral Documents (including the first priority nature thereof) and (iv) the exercise by the Collateral Trustees of its remedies in respect of the Collateral pursuant to the Collateral Documents, does not require any consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or any notice to or filing with, any court, regulatory body, administrative agency or other governmental body (other than such filings required in order to perfect any security interest granted by the Collateral Documents and other than any consent, approval, authorization, order, notice or filing the failure of which to make or obtain could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect), and does not conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the charter or by-laws of the Borrower, AES BVI II, or any of the other Pledged Subsidiaries or any agreement, indenture or other instrument to which the Borrower, AES BVI II or any of the other Pledged Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Borrower, AES BVI II or any of the other Pledged Subsidiaries or the Borrower's, AES BVI II's or the other Pledged Subsidiaries' respective property is bound, or violate or conflict with any laws, administrative regulations or
 
rulings or court decrees applicable to the Borrower, AES BVI II, any of the other Pledged Subsidiaries or the Borrower's, AES BVI II's or the other Pledged Subsidiaries' respective property except for any violation, breach, conflict or default that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and except that in each of the foregoing cases any foreclosure or other exercise of remedies by the Collateral Trustees will require additional approvals and consents that have not been obtained from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of, one or more Subsidiaries and failure to obtain such approval or consent could result in a default under, or a breach of, agreements or other legal obligations of such Subsidiaries.
(b) Each of the representations and warranties of the Borrower and AES BVI II contained in the Collateral Documents is true and correct.
(c) Set forth on Schedule I hereto is a complete and accurate list of all Pledged Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date showing as of such date (as to each such Pledged Subsidiary) its legal name, its jurisdiction of incorporation, the type and number of shares of each class of its Equity Interests authorized, and the type and number outstanding, on such date and the percentage of each such class of its Equity Interests owned (directly or indirectly) by the Borrower and the certificate number corresponding to each such Equity Interest. All of the outstanding Equity Interests pledged to the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders pursuant to the Security Agreement and the BVI Cayman Pledge Agreement in each Pledged Subsidiary have been validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Borrower or AES BVI II, as applicable, free and clear of all Liens, except those created under the Financing Documents.
(d) Set forth on Schedule II hereto is a complete and accurate list of all assigned agreements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (the ""), showing as of the Closing Date the parties, subject matter and term thereof. Each such Assigned Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all parties thereto, has not been amended or otherwise modified (except as otherwise permitted pursuant to the Security Agreement), is in full force and effect (except as otherwise permitted pursuant to the Security Agreement) and is valid and binding upon and enforceable against all parties thereto, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by equitable principles of general applicability and, as of the Closing Date, there exists no default under any Assigned Agreement by any party thereto.
Assigned Agreements
Section 4.15 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 4.16 .
Solvency
The Borrower is, individually, and together with its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, Solvent as of the Closing Date.
Section 4.17 .
Pledged Subsidiaries
Other than the Non-Pledged Subsidiaries, the Pledged Subsidiaries listed on Schedule I hereto are all of the direct Subsidiaries of the Borrower and all of the direct Subsidiaries of AES BVI II.
 
Section 4.18 .
Qualified Holding Companies Debt
None of the Qualified Holding Companies is an obligor or a contingent obligor on any of the Debt other than Debt permitted by the definition of "Qualified Holding Company".
The Borrower agrees that, so long as any Loan or any other Obligation of the Borrower under any Financing Document shall remain unpaid:
Section 5.01 .
Information
The Borrower will deliver to each of the Bank Parties (it being understood that, (x) with respect to clause (c) below, such information shall only be delivered to the Bank Parties that on or prior to the date of delivery have previously requested such information and (y) delivery to the Agent and the posting by the Agent of each of the following items on an electronic website, in accordance with Section 7.11, shall constitute delivery to each of the Bank Parties, and the Agent hereby agrees to post on an electronic website or otherwise distribute to the Bank Parties (subject to clause (x) above) any such item delivered by the Borrower to the Agent):
(a) as soon as available and in any event within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of the end of such fiscal year, an unconsolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of the end of such fiscal year, the related consolidated and unconsolidated (as applicable) statements of operations for such fiscal year and the related consolidated and unconsolidated statements of cash flows for such fiscal year, and a statement of cash flow distributions to the Borrower by project for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, to be reported on, in a manner acceptable to the Securities and Exchange Commission, by Ernst & Young or other independent public accountants of nationally recognized standing and such unconsolidated financial statements to be certified as to fairness of presentation, generally accepted accounting principles (other than failure to consolidate) and consistency by the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower;
(b) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of the end of such quarter and an unconsolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of the end of such fiscal quarter and the related consolidated and unconsolidated statements of operations for such quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year ended at the end of such quarter and the related consolidated and unconsolidated (as applicable) statements of cash flows for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year ended at the end of such quarter, and a statement of cash flow distributions to the Borrower by project for such fiscal quarter and for the period of the Borrower's fiscal year ended at the end of such quarter, setting forth in the case of such consolidated
 
statements of operations and cash flows, in comparative form the figures for the corresponding quarter and the corresponding portion of the Borrower's previous fiscal year, all certified (subject to normal year-end adjustments) as to fairness of presentation, generally accepted accounting principles and consistency by the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower;
(c) upon request by any such Bank Party made at least 30 days prior to the date that the relevant financial statements are required to be delivered pursuant to clause (a) or (b) above (it being understood that upon the first such request, subsequent requests shall automatically be deemed to have been made for as long as such requesting Bank Party continues to be a Bank Party hereunder), (1) as soon as available and in any event no later than 60 days following the date on which financial statements are required to be delivered pursuant to clause (a) above, forecasts prepared by management of the Borrower, in form satisfactory to the Agent, of cash flow statements on a monthly basis for the fiscal year following such fiscal year and on an annual basis for each fiscal year thereafter until the latest of the Initial Term Loan Termination Date, any Incremental Term Loan Termination Date or any Other Term Loan Termination Date then in effect and (2) as soon as available and in any event no later than the date financial statements are required to be delivered pursuant to clause (a) and (b) above, a statement of the monthly cash flows to the Borrower of each Subsidiary of the Borrower for each of the 12 months ending prior to the date of such financial statements;
(d) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above, a certificate of the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower (i) setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations required to establish whether the Borrower was in compliance with the requirements of Section 5.10 on the date of such financial statements; (ii) stating to the knowledge of the Borrower whether any Default exists on the date of such certificate and, if any Default then exists, setting forth the details thereof and the action which the Borrower is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto and (iii) accompanied by a schedule setting forth in reasonable detail a description, including, where applicable, the expected and maximum dollar amounts thereof, of all material contingent liabilities not disclosed in such financial statements;
(e) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in clause (a) above, a statement of the firm of independent public accountants which reported on such statements whether anything has come to their attention as a result of their audit (which was not directed primarily toward obtaining knowledge of noncompliance) to cause them to believe that the Borrower has failed to comply with the terms, covenants, provisions or conditions as they relate to accounting of financial matters addressed in Section 5.10;
(f) within five days after any officer of the Borrower obtains knowledge of any Default, if such Default is then continuing, a certificate of the chief executive officer, president, executive vice-president or chief financial officer of the Borrower setting forth the details thereof and the action which the Borrower is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(g) promptly upon the mailing thereof to the shareholders of the Borrower generally, copies of all financial statements, reports and proxy statements so mailed;
(h) promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all registration statements (other than the exhibits thereto and any registration statements on Form S-8 or its equivalent) and reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K (or their equivalents) which the Borrower shall have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(i) if and when any member of the ERISA Group (i) gives or is required to give notice to the PBGC of any "reportable event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to any Plan which might constitute grounds for a termination of such Plan under Title IV of ERISA, or knows that the plan administrator of any Plan has given or is required to give notice of any such reportable event, a copy of the notice of such reportable event given or required to be given to the PBGC; (ii) receives notice of complete or partial withdrawal liability under Title IV of ERISA or notice that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization, is insolvent or has been terminated, a copy of such notice; (iii) receives notice from the PBGC under Title IV of ERISA of an intent to terminate, impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or appoint a trustee to administer any Plan, a copy of such notice; (iv) applies for a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code, a copy of such application; (v) gives notice of intent to terminate any Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, a copy of such notice and other information filed with the PBGC; (vi) gives notice of withdrawal from any Plan pursuant to Section 4063 of ERISA, a copy of such notice; or (vii) fails to make any payment or contribution to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or in respect of any Benefit Arrangement or makes any amendment to any Plan or Benefit Arrangement which has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other security, a certificate of the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower setting forth details as to such occurrence and the action, if any, which the Borrower or the applicable member of the ERISA Group is required or proposes to take;
(j) by 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the third Domestic Business Day after receipt by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower of Net Cash Proceeds from any Asset Sale, a certificate of the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Borrower setting forth (i) a description of the transaction giving rise to such Net Cash Proceeds, (ii) the amount of Net Cash Proceeds anticipated to be received on such date or each of such dates (together with a schedule detailing the calculations necessary to determine the amount of Net Cash Proceeds), (iii) the amount of such Net Cash Proceeds that is anticipated to prepay the Term Loans and (iv) in the case of the receipt by a Subsidiary of any such Net Cash Proceeds, in the event that such Subsidiary is unable to transfer such Net Cash Proceeds to the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents, such certificate shall also set forth a reasonably detailed explanation of the circumstances preventing such Subsidiary from transferring such Net Cash Proceeds to the Borrower or a Qualified Holding Company whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents;
 
(k) promptly after receipt by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower, a copy of: each complaint, order, citation, initial notice or other material written communication from any Person with respect to the existence or alleged existence of a violation of any applicable Environmental Law or the incurrence of any liability, obligation, loss, damage, cost, expense, fine, penalty or sanction or the requirement to commence any remedial action resulting from or in connection with any air emission, water discharge, noise emission, Hazardous Substance or any other environmental, health or safety matter at, upon, under or within any of the properties now or previously owned, leased or operated by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any Material Subsidiary, or due to the operations or activities of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower, any Material Subsidiary or any other Person on or in connection with any such property or any part thereof, in each case, to the extent that such existence or alleged existence of such violation, incurrence of liability, obligation, loss, damage, cost, expense, fine, penalty or sanction or the requirement to commence any such remedial action could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(l) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in clause (a) and (b) above, (1) a revised Schedule I showing as of the last day of such quarter all of the direct Subsidiaries of the Borrower and AES BVI II (other than Non-Pledged Subsidiaries) and (2) a revised Schedule IV showing as of the last day of such quarter all the Subsidiaries of the Borrower whose assets consist only of any of the Excluded AES Business and direct or indirect Investments therein;
(m) promptly upon request thereof, deliver to the Agent and the Collateral Trustees (A) a list setting forth, for each Secured Agreement, (i) the aggregate principal amount outstanding thereunder, (ii) the accrued and unpaid interest thereunder, (iii) the accrued and unpaid fees (if any) thereunder, (iv) the names of the Representatives (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement) and of the Secured Holders (to the extent known to the Borrower) thereunder, and all other unpaid amounts thereunder known to the Borrower, owing to each such Representative, for its own account and on behalf of such Secured Holders and (v) such other information regarding the Representatives, such Secured Holders and the Secured Agreements as the Agent may reasonably request and (B) the Payment Information (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement); and
(n) from time to time such additional information regarding the financial position or business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as the Agent, at the request of any Bank Party, may reasonably request.
Section 5.02 .
Payment of Obligations
The Borrower will pay and discharge all its Material Obligations, in each case, including, without limitation, tax liabilities, except where the same may be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, and will maintain, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, appropriate reserves for the accrual of any of the same.
 
Section 5.03 .
Maintenance of Property; Insurance
(a) The Borrower will keep, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, all property useful and necessary in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
(b) The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain (either in the name of the Borrower or in such Subsidiary's own name) with financially sound and responsible insurance companies, insurance of such types, in at least such amounts and against at least such risks (and with such risk retention) as are usually insured against in similar circumstances in the same general area by companies of established repute engaged in the same or a similar business; and will furnish to each Bank Party upon request information presented in reasonable detail as to the insurance so carried.
Section 5.04 .
Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence
The Borrower (a) will continue, and will cause each of AES BVI II, the Material Subsidiaries and the Pledged Subsidiaries to continue, to engage in a Permitted Business; (b) will continue, and will cause AES BVI II, each Material Subsidiary and each Pledged Subsidiary to continue, to operate their respective businesses on a basis substantially consistent with the policies and standards of the Borrower, AES BVI II or such Material Subsidiary or such Pledged Subsidiary as in effect on the date hereof and (c) will preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect, and will cause AES BVI II, each Material Subsidiary and each Pledged Subsidiary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect their respective corporate existence and their respective rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of business; that nothing in this Section 5.04 shall prohibit (i) the merger of a Subsidiary into the Borrower or the merger or consolidation of a Subsidiary with or into another Person if the Person surviving such consolidation or merger is a Subsidiary and if, in each case, after giving effect thereto (x) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (y) the Borrower shall not be liable for any Debt of such Subsidiary except to the extent it was liable for such Debt prior to giving effect to such merger and (z) the transaction is otherwise permitted by Section 5.11, (ii) any asset disposition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries permitted by Section 5.18 and (iii) the termination of the corporate existence of any Subsidiary if the Borrower in good faith determines that such termination is in the best interest of the Borrower and is not materially disadvantageous to the Bank Parties.
provided
Section 5.05 .
Compliance with Laws
The Borrower will comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and requirements of governmental authorities (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws and ERISA and the rules and regulations thereunder) except where the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings (and the pendency of such proceedings themselves shall not have a material adverse effect on the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole).
 
Section 5.06 .
Inspection of Property, Books and Records
The Borrower will keep, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries shall be made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities; and will permit, and will cause each Material Subsidiary to permit, representatives of any Bank Party at such Bank Party's expense to visit and inspect any of their respective properties, to examine and make abstracts from any of their respective books and records and to discuss their respective affairs, finances and accounts with their respective officers, employees and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as may reasonably be desired.
Section 5.07 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 5.08 .
Use of Proceeds
The proceeds of the Loans made under this Agreement will be used by the Borrower for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, at the Borrower's election, the financing of a portion of the purchase price and related expenses in connection with the Borrower's contemplated acquisition of DPL Inc. None of such proceeds will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental or ultimate, of buying or carrying any "margin stock" within the meaning of Regulation U.
Section 5.09 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 5.10 .
Negative Pledge
(a) The Borrower shall not incur, issue, assume or guarantee any indebtedness for borrowed money represented by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar evidences of indebtedness, secured by a mortgage, pledge or other lien on any Principal Property or any capital stock or indebtedness held directly by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than assets that are part of the Creditor Group Collateral), unless (i) the Borrower secures the Term Loans equally and ratably with (or prior to) such indebtedness, so long as such indebtedness shall be so secured, or (ii) after giving effect thereto the aggregate amount of all such indebtedness so secured, together with all Attributable Debt in respect of sale and leaseback transactions involving Principal Properties, would not exceed the Secured Debt Limit.
(b) The Borrower agrees that Liens on the Creditor Group Collateral shall only secure First Priority Secured Debt (including (x) Debt under the Existing Credit Agreement and (y) Debt under this Agreement) up to an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the Secured Debt Limit.
Section 5.11 .
Consolidations and Mergers
(a) The Borrower shall not consolidate with, merge with or into, or sell, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets (as an entirety or substantially as an entirety in one transaction or a series of related transactions) to, any Person (other than a consolidation with or merger with or into a Subsidiary or a sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition to a Subsidiary) or permit any Person to merge
 
with or into the Borrower unless either (x) the Borrower shall be the continuing Person or (y) the Person (if other than the Borrower) formed by such consolidation or into which the Borrower is merged or to which properties and assets of the Borrower shall be a solvent corporation organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, pursuant to a written agreement, all of the obligations of the Borrower on all of the Obligations under this Agreement and the Borrower shall have delivered to the Agent (A) an opinion of counsel stating that such consolidation, merger or transfer complies with this provision and that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to such transaction have been complied with and that such written agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower or such successor enforceable against such entity in accordance with its terms, subject to customary exceptions and (B) an officer's certificate to the effect that immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
(b) Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Borrower in accordance with Section 5.11(a) of this Agreement, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Borrower is merged or to which such sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Borrower under this Agreement with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Borrower herein.
Section 5.12 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 5.13 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 5.14 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 5.15 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 5.16 .
As to Existing Credit Agreement
The Borrower shall not (a)(i) increase the aggregate principal amount of "Term Loan Commitments" under and as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement or refinance any outstanding "Term Loans" under and as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement if, after giving effect thereto, the holders of such increased Term Loan Commitments or refinanced term loans have any enforcement rights with respect to the Collateral that are preferential to the holders of the Secured Obligations with respect to this Agreement and the Term Loan Notes, or (b) reduce or terminate the principal amount of "Revolving Credit Loan Commitments" under and as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement to an amount less than or equal to $300,000,000, in each case, unless prior to any such increase, refinancing, reduction or termination or concurrently therewith, an amendment to the Collateral Trust Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit L (or otherwise in a form satisfactory to the Required Banks) is signed by the Collateral Trustees and the "Agent" under the Existing Credit Agreement (or any successor thereof appointed pursuant to the Existing Credit Agreement) and delivered to the Agent. The Agent is irrevocably authorized by the Required Banks to execute an amendment substantially in the form of Exhibit
 
L or a similar amendment or other document that accomplishes substantially the same purpose, and to perform on behalf of the Bank Parties as set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Section 5.17 .
Upstreaming of Net Cash Proceeds by Subsidiaries
The Borrower shall cause any of its Subsidiaries who have received Net Cash Proceeds from any Asset Sale to transfer such Net Cash Proceeds to the Borrower; that such transfer shall not be required to be made if such transfer would violate any applicable contracts or would violate applicable law or if applicable law would require minority shareholder approval (it being understood that the Borrower shall use reasonable efforts to obtain such minority shareholder approval), a valuation or a discretionary order or would, in the Borrower's good faith determination or the good faith determination of a majority of the board of directors of such Subsidiary, involve a reasonable likelihood of there being a breach of fiduciary duties by the directors of such Subsidiary. In connection with managing transfers of Net Cash Proceeds pursuant to this Section 5.17, (a) the Borrower may cause Net Cash Proceeds to be transferred to Qualified Holding Companies whose Equity Interests have been pledged to the Secured Holders pursuant to the Collateral Documents if the Borrower nonetheless makes the related mandatory prepayment that would otherwise be required by Section 2.10(b) using funds not otherwise required to be made the basis of any mandatory prepayment and (b) if the Net Cash Proceeds are less than $10,000,000, the Borrower shall not be required to cause such Net Cash Proceeds effectively to be transferred directly or indirectly to the Borrower and applied pursuant to Section 2.10(b) until the aggregate Net Cash Proceeds not so applied equal or exceed $10,000,000. In connection with managing transfers of Net Cash Proceeds pursuant to this Section 5.17 and making loans, investments and other advances to Subsidiaries, the Borrower may cause Net Cash Proceeds to be transferred among Subsidiaries, rather than transferred to the Borrower, in lieu of loans, investments or other advances made by the Borrower.
provided
Section 5.18 .
Restrictions on Sales and Leasebacks
The Borrower shall not enter into any sale and leaseback transaction involving any Principal Property, the acquisition or completion of construction and commencement of full operation of which has occurred more than 180 days prior thereto, unless (a) the Borrower could incur a lien on such property under the restrictions described in Section 5.10 hereof in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to the sale and leaseback transaction or (b) the Borrower, within 180 days after the sale or transfer by the Borrower, applies to the retirement of its Funded Debt an amount equal to the greater of (i) the net proceeds of the sale of the Principal Property sold and leased pursuant to such arrangement or (ii) the fair market value of the Principal Property so sold and leased as determined by the board of directors of the Borrower; that the amount to be applied to the retirement of Funded Debt of the Borrower shall be reduced by (A) the principal amount of any Term Loans prepaid within 180 days after such sale or transfer, and (B) the principal amount of Funded Debt, other than Term Loans, voluntarily retired by the Borrower within 180 days after such sale or transfer; provided further that no retirement referred to in this clause (b) may be effected by payment at maturity or pursuant to any mandatory sinking fund payment or any mandatory prepayment provision.
provided
Section 5.19 .
Intentionally Omitted
 
Section 5.20 .
Covenant to Give Security
(a) Upon (x) the formation or acquisition of any new direct Subsidiary by the Borrower or AES BVI II having a fair market value in excess of $3,000,000 or (y) the Investment by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in any direct Subsidiary of the Borrower or AES BVI II that was not a "Pledged Subsidiary" on the Closing Date such that aggregate assets of such Subsidiary have a fair market value in excess of $3,000,000, then in each case at the Borrower's expense, the Borrower shall:
(i) within ten days after (A) such formation or acquisition and (B) such Investment, furnish to the Agent a description of such Subsidiary, in each case in detail satisfactory to the Agent,
(ii) within 15 days after such formation or acquisition of any new Subsidiary or such Investment in any direct Subsidiary of the Borrower or AES BVI II that was not a "Pledged Subsidiary" on the Closing Date, duly execute and deliver security agreement supplements (if necessary) as specified by, and in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent, securing payment of all of the Obligations of the Borrower under the Financing Documents; that if such new Subsidiary is a CFC, only 65% of such Equity Interests shall be pledged in favor of the Secured Holders,
provided
(iii) within 30 days after such formation or acquisition, take, and cause each such new Subsidiary to take, whatever action (including, without limitation, the recording of mortgages, the filing of Uniform Commercial Code financing statements, the giving of notices and the endorsement of notices on title documents) may be necessary or advisable in the opinion of the Agent to vest in the Collateral Trustees (or in any representative of the Collateral Trustees designated by it) valid and subsisting Liens on the properties purported to be subject to the pledges, security agreement supplements, and security agreements delivered pursuant to this Section 5.20, enforceable against all third parties in accordance with their terms, and
(iv) at any time and from time to time, promptly execute and deliver any and all further instruments and documents and take all such other action as the Agent may deem necessary or desirable in obtaining the full benefits of, or in perfecting and preserving the Liens of, such pledges, assignments, security agreement supplements and security agreements;
, that Section 5.20(a)(y) shall not be applicable to Subsidiaries for which a grant or perfection of a Lien on such Subsidiary's stock would require approvals and consents from foreign and domestic regulations and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual counterparties of, such Subsidiary.
provided, however
(b) Other than with respect to the Non-Pledged Subsidiaries, the Secured Holders shall have valid, perfected first priority Lien on (i) 65% of the Equity Interests of each direct Subsidiary of the Borrower that is (A) organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof, or (B) any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof the direct or indirect Subsidiary of which is organized under the laws
 
of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof, (ii) 100% of the Equity Interests of each direct Subsidiary of the Borrower that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof other than those Subsidiaries described by clause (i)(B) above and (iii) 65% of the Equity Interests of each direct Subsidiary of AES BVI II.
Section 5.21 .
Further Assurances
(a) Promptly upon request by the Agent, or any Bank Party through the Agent, correct any material defect or error that may be discovered in any Financing Document or in the execution, acknowledgment, filing or recordation thereof that affect the validity or enforceability thereof, and
(b) Promptly upon request by the Agent, or any Bank Party through the Agent, do, execute, acknowledge, deliver, record, re-record, file, re-file, register and re-register any and all such further acts, pledge agreements, assignments, financing statements and continuations thereof, termination statements, notices of assignment, transfers, certificates, assurances and other instruments as the Agent, or any Bank Party through the Agent, may reasonably require from time to time in order to (A) carry out more effectively the purposes of the Financing Documents, (B) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, subject to the Borrower's properties, assets, rights or interests to the Liens now or hereafter intended to be covered by any of the Collateral Documents, (C) perfect and maintain the validity, effectiveness and priority of any of the Collateral Documents and any of the Liens intended to be created thereunder and (D) assure, convey, grant, assign, transfer, preserve, protect and confirm more effectively unto the Secured Holders the rights granted or now or hereafter intended to be granted to the Secured Holders under any Financing Document or under any other instrument executed in connection with any Financing Document to which the Borrower is or is to be a party.
Section 6.01 .
Events of Default
If one or more of the following events ("") shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default
(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay when due any principal of any Loan;
(b) the Borrower shall fail to pay interest on any Loan and such default continues for a period of 30 days;
(c) the Borrower defaults in the performance of or breaches any other covenant or agreement of the Borrower in this Agreement and such default or breach continues for a period of 60 consecutive days after written notice to the Borrower by the Agent at the request or with the consent of the Required Banks;
 
(d) a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for (i) relief in respect of the Borrower of any of its Material Subsidiaries in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator, or similar official of the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries or for all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries or (iii) the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries, and, in each case, such decree or other shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days;
(e) the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries (i) commences a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consents to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, (ii) consents to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries or for all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries or (iii) effects any general assignment for the benefit of its creditors;
(f) an event of default, as defined in any indenture or instrument evidencing or under which the Borrower has as of the date hereof or shall thereafter have outstanding any Debt, shall happen and be continuing and either (i) such default results from the failure to pay the principal of such Debt in excess of $50,000,000 at final maturity of such Debt or (ii) as a result of such default the maturity of such Debt shall have been accelerated so that the same shall be or become due and payable prior to the date on which the same would otherwise have become due and payable, and such acceleration shall not be rescinded or annulled within 60 days and the principal amount of such Debt, together with the principal amount of any other indebtedness of the Borrower in default, or the maturity of which has been accelerated, aggregates $50,000,000 or more.
(g) any Collateral Document after delivery thereof pursuant to Section 3.01 shall for any reason (other than pursuant to the terms thereof) cease to create a valid and perfected first priority lien on and security interest in a material portion of the Collateral purported to be covered thereby,
then, and in every such event, the Agent shall if requested by the Required Banks, by notice to the Borrower declare the Term Loan Notes, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under this Agreement and the other Financing Documents to be, and the Term Loan Notes, all such interest thereon and all such other amounts shall thereupon become immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
Section 6.02 .
Notice of Default
The Agent shall give notice to the Borrower under Section 6.01(c) promptly upon being requested to do so by any Bank Party and shall thereupon notify all the Banks thereof.
 
Section 7.01 .
Appointment and Authorization
Each of the Banks hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and under the other Financing Documents and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Banks, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
Section 7.02 .
Rights as a Bank
The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Bank as any other Bank and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent and the term "Bank" or "Banks" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Banks.
Section 7.03 .
Exculpatory Provisions
The Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Financing Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:
(a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Financing Documents that the Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Banks (or such other number or percentage of the Banks as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Financing Documents), provided that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Financing Document or applicable law; and
(c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Financing Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
 
The Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Banks (or such other number or percentage of the Banks as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 10.03 and 6.01) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Agent by the Borrower or a Bank.
The Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Financing Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Financing Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
Article III
Section 7.04 .
Reliance by Agent
The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Borrower, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Bank, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Bank unless the Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Bank prior to the making of such Borrowing. The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Section 7.05 .
Delegation of Duties
The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Financing Document by or through any one or more sub agents appointed by the Agent. The Agent and any such sub agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub agent and to the Related Parties of the Agent and any such sub agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Agent.
 
Section 7.06 .
Resignation of Agent
The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Banks and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Banks shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Banks and shall have accepted such appointment within 45 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Agent may on behalf of the Banks, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; provided that if the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Banks that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Financing Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Bank directly, until such time as the Required Banks appoint a successor Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Financing Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Financing Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Agent was acting as Agent.
Section 7.07 .
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Banks
Each Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Bank or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Bank also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Bank or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Financing Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Section 7.08 .
No Other Duties, Etc
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Joint Lead Arrangers, Joint Book Runners or Co- Syndication Agents shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Financing Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Agent or a Bank.
 
Section 7.09 .
Agent May File Proofs of Claim
In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Banks and the Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Banks and the Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Banks and the Agent under Section 10.03) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Bank to make such payments to the Agent and, in the event that the Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Banks, to pay to the Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Agent under Section 10.03.
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Bank any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Bank to authorize the Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Bank in any such proceeding.
Section 7.10 .
Collateral Matters
The Banks irrevocably authorize the Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Lien on any property granted to or held by the Agent under any Financing Document (i) upon payment in full of all Obligations (other than contingent indemnification obligations) or (ii) that is sold or to be sold as part of or in connection with any sale permitted hereunder or under any other Financing Document. Upon request by the Agent at any time, the Required Banks will confirm in writing the Agent's authority to release its interest in particular types or items of property.
Section 7.11 .
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or
Notices Generally
 
registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
(i) if to the Borrower or the Agent, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on Schedule 7.11; and
(ii) if to any other Bank, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire (including, as appropriate, notices delivered solely to the Person designated by a Bank on its Administrative Questionnaire then in effect for the delivery of notices that may contain material non-public information relating to the Borrower).
Notices and other communications sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices and other communications sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices and other communications delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Banks hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent, provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Bank pursuant to Article II if such Bank, as applicable, has notified the Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
Unless the Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), provided that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
(c) The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Agent and/or the Arranger Parties will make available to the Banks materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, ") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of
"Borrower Materials
Platform
 
the Banks (each, a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Banks shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Agent, the Arranger Parties and the Banks to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section 10.11); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Side Information;" and (z) the Agent and the Arranger Parties shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Side Information."
Public Bank
provided
however
(d) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Bank or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; provided, however, that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Bank or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
(e) . Each of the Borrower and the Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Bank may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Agent. In addition, each Bank agrees to notify the Agent from time to time to ensure that the Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Bank. Furthermore, each Public Bank agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Bank to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in
Change of Address, Etc
 
order to enable such Public Bank or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Bank's compliance procedures and applicable law, including United States Federal and state securities laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
(f) . The Agent and the Banks shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Notices of Borrower) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Agent, each Bank and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reasonable reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Agent may be recorded by the Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Agent and Banks
Section 8.01 .
Basis for Determining Interest Rate Inadequate or Unfair
If on or prior to the first day of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Borrowing:
(a) the Agent is advised by the Required Banks that deposits in Dollars (in the applicable amounts) are not being offered to banks in the relevant market for such Interest Period, or
(b) the Required Banks advise the Agent that the Eurodollar Rate as determined by the Agent will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Banks of funding their Eurodollar Loans for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Bank Parties, whereupon until the Agent notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, (i) the obligations of the Bank Parties to make Eurodollar Loans, or to continue or convert outstanding Loans as or into Eurodollar Loans, shall be suspended and (ii) each outstanding Eurodollar Loan shall be converted into a Base Rate Loan on the last day of the then current Interest Period applicable thereto. Unless the Borrower notifies the Agent at least two Domestic Business Days before the date of any Eurodollar Borrowing for which a Notice of Borrowing has previously been given that it elects not to borrow on such date, such Borrowing shall instead be made as a Base Rate Borrowing.
Section 8.02 .
Illegality
If, on or after the Closing Date, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in the
 
interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Bank Party (or its Eurodollar Lending Office) with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make it unlawful or impossible for any Bank Party (or its Eurodollar Lending Office) to make, maintain or fund its Eurodollar Loans to the Borrower and such Bank Party shall so notify the Agent, the Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to the other Bank Parties and the Borrower, whereupon until such Bank Party notifies the Borrower and the Agent that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, the obligation of such Bank Party to make Eurodollar Loans to the Borrower, or to convert outstanding Loans into Eurodollar Loans or continue outstanding Loans as Eurodollar Loans, shall be suspended. Before giving any notice to the Agent pursuant to this Section 8.02, such Bank Party shall designate a different Eurodollar Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for giving such notice and will not, in the judgment of such Bank Party, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank Party. If such notice is given, each Eurodollar Loan of such Bank Party then outstanding shall be converted to a Base Rate Loan either (a) on the last day of the then current Interest Period applicable to such Eurodollar Loan if such Bank Party may lawfully continue to maintain and fund such Loan as a Eurodollar Loan to such day or (b) immediately if such Bank Party shall determine that it may not lawfully continue to maintain and fund such Loan as a Eurodollar Loan to such day. Interest and principal on any such Base Rate Loan shall be payable on the same dates as, and on a pro rata basis with, the interest and principal payable on the related Eurodollar Loans of the other Bank Parties.
Section 8.03 .
Increased Cost and Reduced Return
(a) If on or after the Closing Date, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office) (any Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office) being referred to in this Section 8.03 as a "") with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve (including, without limitation, any such requirement imposed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, but excluding with respect to any Eurodollar Loan any such requirement included in an applicable Eurodollar Reserve Percentage), special deposit, insurance assessment or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Credit Party or shall impose on any Credit Party or on the London interbank market any other condition affecting its Eurodollar Loans, its Note or Notes, or its obligation to make Eurodollar Loans and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Credit Party of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Credit Party under this Agreement or under its Note or Notes with respect thereto, by an amount deemed by such Credit Party to be material, then, within 15 days after demand by such Credit Party (with a copy to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Credit Party such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Credit Party for such increased cost or reduction.
Credit Party
(b) If any Credit Party shall have determined that, after the Closing Date, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation regarding capital adequacy, or any change in
 
any such law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency, has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on capital of such Credit Party (or its Parent) as a consequence of such Credit Party's obligations hereunder to a level below that which such Credit Party (or its Parent) could have achieved but for such adoption, change, request or directive (taking into consideration its policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Credit Party to be material, then from time to time, within 15 days after demand by such Credit Party (with a copy to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Credit Party such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Credit Party (or its Parent) for such reduction.
(c) Each Credit Party will promptly notify the Borrower and the Agent of any event of which it has knowledge, occurring after the Closing Date, which will entitle such Credit Party to compensation pursuant to this Section 8.03(c) and will designate a different Applicable Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such compensation and will not, in the judgment of such Credit Party, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Credit Party. A certificate of any Credit Party claiming compensation under this Section 8.03(c) and setting forth the additional amount or amounts to be paid to it hereunder shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. In determining such amount, such Bank Party may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods.
Section 8.04 .
Taxes
(a) Any and all payments by the Borrower to or for the account of any Bank Party, the Agent hereunder or under any other Financing Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, (i) in the case of each Bank Party and the Agent, taxes imposed on its income (including branch profit taxes), franchise and similar taxes and other taxes imposed on it that, in any such case, would not have been imposed but for a material connection between such Bank Party or the Agent (as the case may be) and the jurisdiction imposing such taxes (other than a material connection arising by reason of this Agreement or any other Financing Document or the receipt of payments made hereunder or thereunder or the exercise of any rights by a Bank Party or the Agent (as the case may be) hereunder or thereunder) and (ii) any U.S. federal withholding Taxes imposed under FATCA that would not have been imposed but for the failure by the Agent, Bank, Assignee or Participant, as applicable, to satisfy the applicable requirements of FATCA (all such non-excluded taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as ""). If deduction shall be required by law in respect of any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any other Financing Document to any Bank Party or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 8.04) such Bank Party or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made; (ii) the Borrower or the Agent, as applicable, shall withhold or make such deductions as are determined by the Borrower or the Agent, as applicable, to be required based upon the information and documentation received
Taxes
 
pursuant to subsection (d) below; (iii) the Borrower or the Agent, as applicable, shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law and (iv) as applicable, the Agent shall furnish to the Borrower or the Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 7.11, the original or a certified copy of a receipt or other satisfactory documentation evidencing payment thereof.
(b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes, or charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made by it hereunder or under any Term Loan Note or from the execution or delivery of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Financing Document (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
(c) The Borrower agrees to indemnify each Bank Party and the Agent for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 8.04) paid by such Bank Party or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 10 days from the date such Bank Party or the Agent (as the case may be) makes demand therefor.
(d) Each Bank Party, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of a Bank Party listed on the signature pages hereof or on or prior to the date on which it becomes a Bank Party in the case of each other Bank Party and in the case any Bank Party changes jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office and from time to time thereafter as requested in writing by the Borrower or the Agent (but only so long thereafter as such Bank Party remains lawfully able to do so), shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent such certificates, documents or other evidence, as required by the Code or Treasury Regulations issued pursuant thereto, including Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, Form W-8 IMY or Form W-8ECI and any other certificate or statement of exemption specified by the Borrower and required by Treasury Regulation Section 1.1441-4(a) or Section 1.1441-6(c) or any subsequent version thereof, properly completed and duly executed by such Bank Party establishing that any payment under this Agreement or any other Financing Documents is (a) in the case of a Bank Party that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States, (i) not subject to withholding under the Code because such payment is effectively connected with the conduct by such Bank Party of a trade or business in the United States, or (ii) fully or partially exempt from United States tax under a provision of an applicable tax treaty, or (iii) not subject to withholding under the portfolio interest exception under Section 881(c) of the Code (and, if such Bank Party delivers a Form W-8BEN claiming the benefits of exemption from United States withholding tax under Section 881(c), a certificate representing that such Bank Party is not a "bank" for purposes of Section 881(c) of the Code, is not a 10-percent shareholder (within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code) of the Borrower and is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower (within the meaning of Section 864(d)(4) of the Code) and (b) in the case of a Bank Party that is organized under the law of the United States or any state thereof not subject to United States federal backup withholding tax. Unless the Borrower or the Agent, as applicable, has received forms or other documents reasonably satisfactory to it indicating that payments hereunder are not subject to United States withholding tax or United States federal backup withholding tax or are subject to such tax at a rate reduced by an applicable
 
tax treaty, the Borrower or the Agent, as applicable, shall withhold taxes from such payments at the applicable statutory rate in the case of payments to or for any Bank Party organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States. If a Bank Party is unable to deliver one of these forms or if the forms provided by a Bank Party at the time such Bank Party first becomes a party to this Agreement or at the time a Bank Party changes its Applicable Lending Office (other than at the request of the Borrower or the Agent) or designates a Conduit Bank that indicates a United States interest withholding tax or United States federal backup withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Bank Party provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such appropriate forms; , , that (i) that should a Bank Party, which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax, become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as such Bank Party shall reasonably request to assist such Bank Party to recover such Taxes and (ii) if at the effective date of a transfer pursuant to which a Bank Party becomes a party to this Agreement, the Bank Party assignor was entitled to payments under Section 8.04(a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Bank Party assignee on such date. If a payment made to a Bank Party hereunder or under any other Financing Document would be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Bank Party were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Bank Party shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower and the Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Bank Party has complied with such Bank Party's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this Section 8.04(d), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement. Each Bank Party shall promptly (i) notify the Borrower and the Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction, and (ii) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Bank Party, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Applicable Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any jurisdiction that the Borrower or the Agent make any withholding or deduction for taxes from amounts payable to such Bank Party.
provided
however
(e) Each Bank Party agrees to indemnify the Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 10 days after demand therefor, against any and all Taxes and any and all related losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, interest and expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agent) incurred by or asserted against the Agent by any governmental authority as a result of the failure by such Bank Party to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Bank Party to the Agent pursuant to subsection (d). Each Bank Party agrees to authorize the
 
Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Bank Party under this Agreement against any amount due to the Agent under this subsection (e).
(f) If the Borrower is required to pay additional amounts to or for the account of any Bank Party pursuant to this Section 8.04, then such Bank Party shall use reasonable effort (consistent with internal policy and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office so as to eliminate or reduce any such additional payment which may thereafter accrue if such change, in the judgment of such Bank Party, is not otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank Party.
(g) Each Bank Party and the Agent agrees that it will promptly (within 30 days) after receiving notice thereof from any taxing authority, notify the Borrower of the assertion of any liability by such taxing authority with respect to Taxes or Other Taxes; that the failure to give such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligations under this Section 8.04 to the extent that the Borrower has been prejudiced by such failure and except that the Borrower shall not be liable for penalties, interest or expenses accruing after such 30 day period until such time as it receives the notice contemplated above, after which time it shall be liable for interest, penalties and expenses accruing after such receipt.
provided
except
(h) If any Bank Party or the Agent shall receive a credit or refund from a taxing authority (as a result of any error in the imposition of Taxes or Other Taxes by such taxing authority) with respect to and actually resulting from an amount of such Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Borrower pursuant to subsection (a) or (c) above, such Bank Party or the Agent shall promptly pay to the Borrower the amount so received (without interest thereon, whether or not received).
(i) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement contained herein, the agreements, covenants and obligations contained in this Section 8.04 shall survive the resignation and/or replacement of the Agent, any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Bank Party, or the payment in full of the principal of and interest on all Loans, Notes and other advances made hereunder.
Section 8.05 .
Base Rate Loans Substituted for Affected Eurodollar Loans
If (a) the obligation of any Bank Party to make, or to continue or to convert outstanding Loans as or to, Eurodollar Loans to the Borrower has been suspended pursuant to Section 8.02 or (b) any Bank Party has demanded compensation under Section 8.03 or 8.04 with respect to its Eurodollar Loans to the Borrower shall, by at least five Eurodollar Business Days' prior notice to such Bank Party through the Agent, have elected that the provisions of this Section 8.05 shall apply to such Bank Party, then, unless and until such Bank Party notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension or demand for compensation no longer exist, all Loans to the Borrower which would otherwise be made by such Bank Party as (or continued or converted to) Eurodollar Loans shall be made instead as Base Rate Loans (on which interest and principal shall be payable contemporaneously with the related Eurodollar Loans of the other Bank Parties). If such Bank Party notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension or demand for compensation no longer exist, the
 
principal amount of each such Base Rate Loan shall be converted into a Eurodollar Loan on the first day of the next succeeding Interest Period applicable to the related Eurodollar Loans of the other Bank Parties.
Section 10.01 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 10.02 .
No Waivers
No failure or delay by the Agent or any Bank Party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Financing Document shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
Section 10.03 .
Expenses; Indemnification; Waiver and Acknowledgment
(a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent and its Affiliates, including, without limitation, (A) reasonable fees and disbursements of outside counsel for the Agent in connection with the syndication of the Term Loan Facilities, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Financing Documents, any waiver or consent hereunder or any amendment hereof or any Default or alleged Default hereunder (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby shall be consummated), (B) the reasonable fees and disbursements of the Collateral Trustees and their outside counsel and (ii) if an Event of Default occurs, all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agent and each Bank, including (without duplication) the fees and disbursements of outside counsel and the allocated cost of inside counsel, in connection with such Event of Default and collection, bankruptcy, insolvency, workout, restructuring and other enforcement proceedings resulting therefrom.
(b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and each Bank Party, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing (each, an "") and hold each Indemnitee harmless from and against, any and all liabilities, losses, claims, damages and related costs and expenses of any kind, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel, which may be incurred by such Indemnitee in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding (whether or not such Indemnitee shall be designated a party thereto) brought or threatened relating to or arising out of the Financing Documents or any actual or proposed use of proceeds of Loans; that no Indemnitee shall have the right to be indemnified hereunder for such Indemnitee's own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnitee
provided
 
(c) In no event shall any Indemnitee be liable (whether direct or indirect, in contract or tort or otherwise) to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, equityholders, directors, officers, agents or employees for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages relating to or arising out of the Financing Documents or any related transaction. In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the credit facilities provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Financing Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Agent and each of the Banks, on the other hand, and the Borrower is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Financing Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or thereof) and (ii) neither the Agent nor any Bank has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Financing Document (irrespective of whether the Agent or any Bank has advised or is currently advising the Borrower or any of its Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Agent nor any Bank has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Financing Documents. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Financing Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(d) To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Bank severally agrees to pay to the Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Bank's pro rata share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Banks under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable no later than ten Domestic Business Days after demand therefor.
provided
Section 2.11(e)
Section 10.04 .
Sharing of Payments
Each Bank Party agrees that if it shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise (including, without limitation, through the application of any proceeds of the Creditor Group Collateral), receive payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount due and payable to such Bank Party hereunder which is greater than the proportion received by any
 
other Bank Party (A) on account of Obligations due and payable to such Bank Party hereunder and under the Term Loan Notes at such time in excess of its ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Obligations due and payable to such Bank Party at such time to (ii) the aggregate amount of Obligations due and payable to all Bank Parties hereunder and under the Term Loan Notes at such time) of payments on account of the Obligations due and payable to all the Bank Parties hereunder and under the Term Loan Notes at such time obtained by all the Bank Parties at such time or (B) on account of Obligations owing (but not due and payable) to such Bank Party hereunder and under the Term Loan Notes at such time in excess of its ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Obligations owing (but not due and payable) to such Bank Party at such time to (ii) the aggregate amount of Obligations owing (but not due and payable) to all Bank Parties hereunder and under the Term Loan Notes at such time) of payments on account of the Obligations owing (but not due and payable) to all Bank Parties hereunder and under the Term Loan Notes at such time obtained by all of the Bank Parties at such time, such Bank Party shall forthwith purchase from the other Bank Parties such participations in the Obligations due and payable or owing to them, as the case may be, as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Bank Party to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; that nothing in this Section 10.04 shall impair the right of any Bank Party to exercise any right of set-off or counterclaim it may have and to apply the amount subject to such exercise to the payment of indebtedness of the Borrower owing to it. The Borrower agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any holder of a participation in a Term Loan Note, whether or not acquired pursuant to the foregoing arrangements, may exercise rights of set-off or counterclaim and other rights with respect to such participation as fully as if such holder of a participation were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
Section 10.05 .
Amendments and Waivers
Any provision of this Agreement or any other Financing Document may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed by the Borrower and the Required Banks (and, if the rights or duties of the Agent are affected thereby, by the Agent); that (a) no such amendment or waiver shall, unless signed by all the Bank Parties, (i) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01 or 3.02 (with respect to the Extensions of Credit made or deemed to be made on the Closing Date); (ii) change the number of Bank Parties or the percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Loans that shall be required for the Bank Parties or any of them to take any action hereunder; (iii) release all or substantially all of the Collateral in any transaction or series of related transactions; or (iv) amend Section 10.04 or this Section 10.05, (b) except for Permitted Amendments, no such amendment or waiver shall, unless signed by the Required Banks and each Bank Party if such Bank Party is directly adversely affected by such amendment or waiver, (i) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Term Loan Notes held by such Bank Party or Loans outstanding to such Bank Party or any fees or other amounts payable to such Bank Party; (ii) reduce the principal of or rate of interest on any Loan or any fees hereunder, (iii) change (x) the order of application in the prepayment of Loans among the Facilities from the application thereof set forth in the applicable provisions of Section 2.10 in any manner that materially affects the Bank Parties under such Facilities or (y) the right of any Bank Party to sharing of payments pursuant to the terms hereof (except as otherwise specifically provided in clause (c)(i) below), (iv) postpone the date fixed for any payment of principal of or interest on any Loan or any fees
provided
pro rata
 
hereunder or (v) postpone the final maturity of the Loans and (c) no such amendment or waiver shall, except as provided in Section 5.16, unless signed by the Supermajority Banks (i) change the application of Net Cash Proceeds from Asset Sales among the Bank Parties, on the one hand, and the other Financing Parties, on the other hand, set forth in Section 2.10(b)(i) by amending the definition of "Banks' Ratable Share" or otherwise or (ii) amend the definition of "Secured Holders" or "Secured Obligations" in the Collateral Trust Agreement or amend Sections 5.01, 8.01, 8.02 or 9.01 of the Collateral Trust Agreement; that no such amendment or waiver shall (x) release all or substantially all of the Creditor Group Collateral or (y) change the application of Net Cash Proceeds from Asset Sales among the Financing Parties set forth in Section 2.10(b)(i) by amending the definition of "Banks' Ratable Share" or otherwise unless the Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it from the Agent under the Existing Credit Agreement.
pro rata
provided further
pro rata
Section 10.06 .
Successors and Assigns
(a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, except the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of all of the Bank Parties.
(b) Any Bank other than a Conduit Bank may, without notice to or consent of the Borrower and Agent, at any time grant to one or more banks or other institutions (each, a "") participating interests in any or all of its Loans. In the event of any such grant by a Bank of a participating interest to a Participant, whether or not upon notice to the Borrower, and the Agent, such Bank shall remain responsible for the performance of its obligations hereunder, and the Borrower and the Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Bank in connection with such Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement pursuant to which any Bank may grant such a participating interest shall provide that such Bank shall retain the sole right and responsibility to enforce the obligations of the Borrower hereunder including, without limitation, the right to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Financing Document; that such participation agreement may provide that such Bank will not agree to any modification, amendment or waiver of this Agreement described in clauses (a) (i), (iv) through (vi) and clause (b) of Section 10.05 without the consent of the Participant. The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall, to the extent provided in its participation agreement, be entitled to the benefits of Article VIII with respect to its participating interest (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under Section 8.04(d) (it being understood that the documentation required under Section 8.04(d) shall be delivered to the participating Bank)); that such Participant (A) agrees to be subject to the provision of Section 8.04(f) and Section 10.16 as if it were an Assignee; and (B) shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 8.04, with respect to any participating interest, than its participating Bank would have been entitled to receive, except to the extent such entitlement to receive a greater payment results from the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority that occurs after the Participant acquired the applicable participating interest. Each Bank that grants a participating interest agrees, at the Borrower's request and expense, to use reasonable efforts to cooperate with the Borrower to effectuate the provisions of Section 10.16 with respect to any Participant. Each
Participant
provided
provided
 
Bank that grants a participating interest shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interests in the Loans (the ""); that no Bank shall have any obligations to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any commitments, loans or its other obligations under any Loan) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such commitment, loan or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Bank shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participating interest for all purposes under this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary. For the avoidance of doubt, the Agent (in its capacity as Agent) shall have no responsibility for maintaining a Participant Register. An assignment or other transfer which is not permitted by subsection (c) or (d) below shall be given effect for purposes of this Agreement only to the extent of a participating interest granted in accordance with this subsection (b). No such participating interests shall be granted to any Person who at the time of such grant either (x) has been declared by the Agent to be a Defaulting Bank, (y) is known by the granting Bank to be a Defaulting Bank, or in each case any of its Subsidiaries, or (z) is the Borrower or an Affiliate of the Borrower, or any Person who, upon becoming a Bank hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing persons described in this sentence.
Participant Register
provided
(c) Any Bank Party other than a Conduit Bank may at any time assign to one or more banks or other institutions (each, an "") all, or a proportionate part of all, in each case in an amount not less than $1,000,000 (or such lesser amount as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the Agent) (except in the case of an assignment which will result in a group of Banks which are managed by the same Bank Party holding a Term Loan Commitment of not less than $1,000,000), of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Financing Documents, and such Assignee shall assume such rights and obligations, pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto, as the case may be, executed by such Assignee and such transferor Bank Party, with (and subject to) the subscribed consent of the Agent; that if an Assignee is an Affiliate of such transferor Bank Party, no such consent shall be required; and , that under no circumstances may the Borrower or any of its Affiliates be an "Assignee" hereunder. Upon execution and delivery of such instrument and payment by such Assignee to such transferor Bank Party of an amount equal to the purchase price agreed between such transferor Bank Party and such Assignee, such Assignee shall be a Bank Party party to this Agreement and shall have all the rights and obligations of a Bank Party as set forth in such instrument of assumption, and the transferor Bank Party shall be released from its obligations hereunder to a corresponding extent, and no further consent or action by any party shall be required. Upon the consummation of any assignment pursuant to this subsection (c), the transferor Bank Party, the Agent and the Borrower shall make appropriate arrangements so that, if required, new Notes are issued to the Assignee. In connection with any such assignment, other than an assignment by a Bank Party to one of its own Affiliates, the transferor Bank Party or Assignee shall pay to the Agent an administrative fee for processing such assignment in the amount of $3,500 (except the payment of such fee shall not be required in connection with an assignment by a Bank to a Related Fund of such Bank). The Assignee shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent certification as to exemption from, or
Assignee
provided
provided
further
 
reduction in, deduction or withholding of any United States federal income and backup withholding taxes as required by Section 8.04. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Conduit Bank may assign at any time to its designating Bank hereunder without the consent of the Borrower or the Agent any or all of the Loans it may have funded hereunder and pursuant to its designation agreement and without regard to the limitations set forth in the first sentence of this Section 10.06(c). The Agent shall be reasonable in withholding its consent to any attempted assignments to any Defaulting Bank or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Bank hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing persons described in this sentence.
(d) In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Bank hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Borrower and the Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Loans previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Bank, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Bank to the Agent or any Bank hereunder (and interest accrued thereon) and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Loans in accordance with its pro rata share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Bank hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Bank for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
(e) Any Bank Party may at any time assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and the other Financing Documents to a Federal Reserve Bank. No such assignment shall release the transferor Bank Party from its obligations hereunder. In the case of any Bank Party that is a fund that invests in bank loans, such Bank Party may, without the consent of the Borrower or the Agent, assign or pledge all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement, including the Loans and Notes or any other instrument evidencing its rights as a Bank Party under this Agreement, to any holder of, trustee for, or any other representative of holders of, obligations owed or securities issued, by such fund, as security for such obligations or securities; that unless and until such holder, trustee or representative actually becomes a Bank Party in compliance with the other provisions of this Section 10.06, (i) no such pledge shall release the pledging Bank Party from any of its obligations under the Financing Documents and (ii) such holder, trustee or representative shall not be entitled to exercise any of the rights of a Bank Party under the Financing Documents even though such trustee may have acquired ownership rights with respect to the pledged interest through foreclosure or otherwise.
provided
(f) Each of the Borrower, the Agent and each Bank hereby confirms that it will not institute against a Conduit Bank or join any other Person in instituting against a Conduit Bank any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceeding under any state bankruptcy or similar law, for one year and one day after the payment in full of the latest maturing commercial paper note issued by such Conduit Bank; , , that
provided
however
 
each Bank designating any Conduit Bank hereby agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless each other party hereto for any loss, cost, damage or expense arising out of its inability to institute such a proceeding against such Conduit Bank during such period of forbearance.
(g) The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 7.11, a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Bank Parties and the principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Bank Party from time to time (the ""). In addition, the Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation, and revocation of designation, of any Bank as a Defaulting Bank. The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Bank Parties may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Bank Party hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Bank Party at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Section 10.07 .
No Margin Stock
Each of the Bank Parties represents to the Agent and each of the other Bank Parties that it in good faith is not relying upon any "margin stock" (as defined in Regulation U) as collateral in the extension or maintenance of the credit provided for in this Agreement.
Section 10.08 .
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction
This Agreement and the other Financing Documents shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court located in New York City, Borough of Manhattan, or federal court of the United States of America sitting in the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the other Financing Documents (other than with respect to any action or proceeding by the Agent or the Borrower in respect of rights under any Collateral Document governed by laws other than the laws of the State of New York or with respect to any Collateral subject thereto), or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. The Borrower irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that any such proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Section 10.09 .
Release of Collateral
Upon the sale, lease, transfer or other disposition of any item of Collateral in accordance with the terms of the Financing Documents, the Agent will, at the Borrower's
 
expense, execute and deliver to the Borrower such documents as the Borrower may reasonably request to evidence the release of such item of Collateral from the assignment and security interest granted under the Collateral Documents in accordance with the terms of the Financing Documents.
Section 10.10 .
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement and the other Financing Documents constitute the entire agreement and understanding among the parties hereto and supersede any and all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement shall become effective upon the Agent's receipt of executed counterparts of this Agreement from the Agent, each Bank party to the Agreement on the date hereof and the Borrower.
Section 10.11 .
Confidentiality
The Agent and each Bank Party agrees to keep confidential all non-public information provided to it by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement that is designated by the Borrower as confidential; that nothing herein shall prevent the Agent or any Bank Party from disclosing any such information (a) to the Agent, any other Bank Party or any affiliate of any Bank Party; (b) to any (i) actual or prospective transferee or (ii) Derivatives Obligations counterparty or such contractual counterparty's professional advisor), in each case that agrees to comply with the provisions of this Section 10.11 or other provisions that are no less restrictive in any respect than this Section 10.11; (c) to its employees, directors, agents, attorneys, accountants and other professional advisors or those of any of its affiliates; (d) upon the request or demand of any governmental authority or regulatory body; (e) in response to any order of any court or other governmental authority or as may otherwise be required pursuant to any requirement of law; (f) if required to do so in connection with any litigation or similar proceeding; (g) that has been publicly disclosed or that becomes available to the Agent, any Bank or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower and as to which to the Agent, such Bank or any of their respective Affiliates has no knowledge that such information is being made available as a result of a breach of contract or duty by such source providing such information; (h) to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any similar organization or any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to information about a Bank Party's investment portfolio in connection with ratings issued with respect to such Bank Party; (i) to any direct or indirect contractual counterparty in any swap, hedge or similar agreement (or to any such contractual counterparty's professional advisor), so long as such contractual counterparty (or such professional advisor) agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Section 10.11; or (j) in connection with the exercise of any remedy hereunder or under any other Financing Documents or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Financing Document. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, the Borrower, the Agent and each Bank Party hereby agree that each of the Borrower, the Agent and each Bank Party (and each of the officers, directors, employees, accountants, attorneys and other advisors of the Agent, each Third Party Fronting Bank and each Bank Party) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the U.S. tax treatment and U.S. tax structure of
provided
 
the transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions and other tax analyses) that are provided to each of them relating to such U.S. tax treatment and U.S. tax structure.
Section 10.12 .
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
EACH OF THE BORROWER, THE AGENT AND THE BANK PARTIES HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE OTHER FINANCING DOCUMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY. EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER FINANCING DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
Section 10.13 .
Severability; Modification to Conform to Law
It is the intention of the parties that this Agreement be enforceable to the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, but that the unenforceability (or modification to conform to such law) of any provision or provisions hereof shall not render unenforceable, or impair, the remainder hereof. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction, this Agreement shall, as to such jurisdiction, be deemed amended to modify or delete, as necessary, the offending provision or provisions and to alter the bounds thereof in order to render it or them valid and enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, without in any manner affecting the validity or enforceability of such provision or provisions in any other jurisdiction or the remaining provisions hereof in any jurisdiction. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.13, if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Banks shall be limited by Debtor Relief Laws, as determined in good faith by the Agent, then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
Section 10.14 .
Judgment Currency
If for the purposes of enforcing the obligations of the Borrower hereunder it is necessary to convert a sum due from such Person in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent and the Bank Parties could purchase Dollars with such currency at or about 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the Domestic Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligations in respect of any sum due to the Agent and the Bank Parties hereunder shall, notwithstanding any adjudication expressed in a currency other than Dollars, be discharged only to the extent that on the Domestic Business Day following receipt by the Agent and the Bank Parties of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency the Agent and the Bank Parties may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase Dollars with such other currency; if the amount of
 
Dollars so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Agent and the Bank Parties in Dollars, the Borrower agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such adjudication, to indemnify the Agent and the Bank Parties against such loss, and if the amount of Dollars so purchased exceeds the sum originally due to the Agent and the Bank Parties, it shall remit such excess to the Borrower.
Section 10.15 .
Intentionally Omitted
Section 10.16 .
Replacement of Banks
If (i) any Bank or any participant of such Bank requests compensation under Section 8.03, or (ii) if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Bank or any participant of such Bank or any governmental authority for the account of any Bank or any participant of such Bank pursuant to Section 8.04, or (iii) if such Bank has failed to consent to any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder requiring the consent of all Banks or all Banks directly affected thereby as to which the Required Banks or the majority of Banks directly affected thereby have given their consent or (iv) a Bank is a Defaulting Bank (each, a "") or if any other circumstance exists hereunder that gives the Borrower the right to replace a Bank as a party hereto, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Bank and the Agent, require such Bank to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 10.06), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Financing Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Bank, if a Bank accepts such assignment), that:
Non-Consenting Bank
provided
(a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Agent the assignment fee specified in Section 10.06(c);
(b) such Bank shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Financing Documents (including any amounts under Section 2.12) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
(c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 8.03 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 8.04, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
(d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable laws or guidelines, directed duties or requests of, or agreements with, any governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law).
A Bank shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Bank or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply. If the Borrower elects to exercise its rights with respect to a Non-Consenting Bank pursuant to clause (iii) above, then it must exercise such rights
 
with respect to all but not less than all such Non-Consenting Banks. Each Bank agrees that, if it becomes a Non-Consenting Bank, it shall execute and deliver to the Agent an Assignment and Assumption to evidence such sale and purchase and shall deliver to the Agent any Term Loan Note (if the assigning Bank's Loans are evidenced by Notes) subject to such Assignment and Assumption; , , that the failure of any Non-Consenting Bank to execute an Assignment and Assumption shall not render such sale and purchase (and the corresponding assignment) invalid and such assignment shall be recorded in the Register.
provided
however
Section 10.17 . Each Bank that is party hereto hereby agrees on its own behalf, and on behalf of its successors and assigns, as follows:
Permitted Amendments
(a) The Borrower may, by written notice to the Agent from time to time, make one or more offers to all Banks holding (i) Initial Term Loans, (ii) Incremental Term Loans and/or (iii) Other Term Loans, to make one or more Permitted Amendments pursuant to procedures reasonably specified by the Agent and reasonably acceptable to the Borrower. Such notice shall set forth (x) the terms and conditions of the requested Permitted Amendments and (y) the date on which responses from the applicable Banks in respect of such Permitted Amendment are required to be received (which shall not be less than three Domestic Business Days after the date of such notice). Only those Banks that consent to such Permitted Amendment (the "") will have the maturity of their applicable Loans and Commitments extended and be entitled to receive any increase in the Base-Rate Margin or Eurodollar Margin, as applicable, and any fees (including prepayment premiums or fees), in each case, as provided therein.
Accepting Banks
(b) The Borrower and each Accepting Bank shall execute and deliver to the Agent such documentation as the Agent shall reasonably specify to evidence the acceptance of the Permitted Amendments and the terms and conditions thereof. The Agent shall promptly notify each Bank as to the effectiveness of each Permitted Amendment. Each of the parties hereto hereby agrees that, upon the effectiveness of any Permitted Amendment, this Agreement shall be deemed amended, as may be necessary or appropriate, in the opinion of the Agent, to effect the terms and provisions of the Permitted Amendment with respect to the Loans and Commitments of the Accepting Banks (including any amendments necessary to treat the Loans and Commitments of the Accepting Banks in a manner consistent with the other Loans and Commitments under this Agreement). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Permitted Amendment shall become effective under this Section 10.17 unless the Agent, to the extent so reasonably requested by the Agent, shall have received legal opinions, board resolutions and officer's certificates consistent with those delivered pursuant to Section 3.01.
Section 10.18 . Each Bank that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Bank) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Bank or the Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Agent or any Bank, provide all documentation and other information that the Agent or such Bank requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under
USA PATRIOT Act
Act
 
applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
Section 10.19 . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Financing Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Agent and the Arranger Parties are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Agent and the Arranger Parties, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Financing Documents; (ii) (A) the Agent and each Arranger Party each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Agent nor any Arranger Party has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Financing Documents; and (iii) the Agent and the Arranger Parties and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Agent nor any Arranger Party has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Agent and the Arranger Parties with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
Section 10.20 . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption or in any amendment or other modification hereof (including waivers and consents) shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments and Certain Other Documents
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
Appendix I
 
PLEDGOR: AES CORP.
 
 
PLEDGOR: AES CORP.
 
 
PLEDGOR: AES CORP.
 
 
PLEDGOR: AES INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS II, LTD.
 
 
Schedule II
Grantor Assigned Agreement
 
SCHEDULE III
AES CORP.
 
AES INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS II, LTD
 
AES Argentina Holdings S.C.A.
AES Baltic Holdings BV
AES Barka Services 1 (Cayman) Ltd.
AES Barka Services 2 (Cayman) Ltd.
AES Brazilian Holdings, Ltd.
AES Bridge I Ltd.
AES Bridge II Ltd.
AES Canal Power Services, Inc.
AES Cayman Island Holdings, Ltd.
AES Cemig Empreendimentos, Inc.
AES Cemig Empreendimentos II, Ltd.
AES Central American Mgmt Services, Inc.
AES Chaparron I, Ltd.
AES Chaparron II, Ltd.
AES Chigen Holdings Ltd.
AES Climate Solutions Holdings, L. P.
AES Climate Solutions Holdings, LLC
AES Climate Solutions Holdings I, LLC
AES Climate Solutions Holdings II, LLC
AES Communications Latin America, Inc.
AES Denmark GP Holding I ApS
AES Denmark GP Holding II ApS
AES EDC Funding II, LLC
AES EDC Holding, LLC
AES GEI US Finance, Inc.
AES Global Power Holdings BV
AES International Holdings Ltd.
AES Isthmus Energy, S.A.
AES LNG Holding II, Ltd.
AES Medway Electric Ltd.
AES Nigeria Holdings Ltd.
AES Oasis Holdco (Cayman) Ltd.
AES Oman Holdings Ltd.
AES Overseas Holdings (Cayman) Ltd.
AES Panama Holding Ltd.
AES Platense Investments Uruguay S.C.A.
AES Qatar Holdings Ltd.
AES Shannon Holdings BV
AES Songas Holdings Ltd.
AES Summit Generation Ltd.
AES Tisza Holdings BV
AES Transgas I, Ltd.
AES Transgas II, Ltd.
AES UK Holdings Limited
AES UK Power Holdings Ltd.
AES Venezuela Finance Ltd.
AES VFL Holdings, L.L.C.
Global Energy Investment CV
Global Energy Holdings CV
La Plata II, Ltd.
La Plata III, Ltd.
Siram Investments BV
Schedule 2.10
Section 1 :
Definitions
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Agreement to which this Schedule 2.10 is attached. The following terms as used in this Schedule 2.10 have the following meanings.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(2).
Acceptable Discount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(3).
Acceptable Prepayment Amount
"" means a notice of the Borrower's acceptance of the Acceptable Discount in substantially the form of .
Acceptance and Prepayment Notice
Exhibit D
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(2).
Acceptance Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(C)(2).
Applicable Discount
"" means (a) the Agent or (b) any other financial institution or advisor employed by the Borrower (whether or not an Affiliate of the Agent) to act as an arranger in connection with any Discounted Loan Prepayment pursuant to Section 2(A); that the Borrower shall not designate the Agent as the Auction Agent without the written consent of the Agent (it being understood that the Agent shall be under no obligation to agree to act as the Auction Agent); that neither the Borrower nor any of its Affiliates may act as the Auction Agent.
Auction Agent
provided
provided, further,
"" means the offer by the Borrower to make a voluntary prepayment of Loans at a specified discount to par pursuant to Section 2(B).
Borrower Offer of Specified Discount Prepayment
"" means the solicitation by the Borrower of offers for, and the corresponding acceptance by a Bank of, a voluntary prepayment of Loans at a specified range of discounts to par pursuant to Section 2(C).
Borrower Solicitation of Discount Range Prepayment Offers
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(B)(2).
Discount Prepayment Accepting Bank
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(C)(1).
Discount Range
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(C)(1).
Discount Range Prepayment Amount
"" means a written notice of a Borrower Solicitation of Discount Range Prepayment Offers made pursuant to Section 2(C) substantially in the form of Exhibit E.
Discount Range Prepayment Notice
AES Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
"" means the irrevocable written offer by a Bank, substantially in the form of Exhibit F, submitted in response to an invitation to submit offers following the Auction Agent's receipt of a Discount Range Prepayment Notice.
Discount Range Prepayment Offer
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(C)(1).
Discount Range Prepayment Response Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(C)(3).
Discount Range Proration
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(A).
Discounted Loan Prepayment
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(3).
Discounted Prepayment Determination Date
"" means in the case of a Borrower Offer of Specified Discount Prepayment, Borrower Solicitation of Discount Range Prepayment Offer or Borrower Solicitation of Discounted Prepayment Offer, five Domestic Business Days following the Specified Discount Prepayment Response Date, the Discount Range Prepayment Response Date or the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Response Date, as applicable, in accordance with Section 2(B), Section 2(C) or Section 2(D), respectively, unless a shorter period is agreed to between the Borrower and the Auction Agent.
Discounted Prepayment Effective Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(3).
Identified Qualifying Banks
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(1).
Offered Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(1).
Offered Discount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(C)(2).
Participating Bank
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(3).
Qualifying Bank
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(3).
Solicited Discount Proration
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(1).
Solicited Discounted Prepayment Amount
"" means a written notice of the Borrower of Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers made pursuant to Section 2(D) substantially in the form of Exhibit G.
Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice
"" means the irrevocable written offer by each Bank, substantially in the form of Exhibit H, submitted following the Agent's receipt of a Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice.
Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(D)(1).
Solicited Discounted Prepayment Response Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(B)(1).
Specified Discount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(B)(1).
Specified Discount Prepayment Amount
 
AES - Credit Agreement
"" means a written notice of the Borrower Offer of Specified Discount Prepayment made pursuant to Section 2(B) substantially in the form of .
Specified Discount Prepayment Notice
Exhibit I
"" means the irrevocable written response by each Bank, substantially in the form of , to a Specified Discount Prepayment Notice.
Specified Discount Prepayment Response
Exhibit J
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(B)(1).
Specified Discount Prepayment Response Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(B)(3).
Specified Discount Proration
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(C)(1).
Submitted Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(C)(1).
Submitted Discount
Section 2.
Discounted Loan Prepayments
(A) The Borrower shall have the right to make a voluntary prepayment of Loans at a discount to par pursuant to a Borrower Offer of Specified Discount Prepayment, Borrower Solicitation of Discount Range Prepayment Offers or Borrower Solicitation of Discounted Prepayment Offers (any such prepayment, the ""), in each case made in accordance with this Section 2; that the Borrower shall not initiate any action under this Section 2 in order to make a Discounted Loan Prepayment unless (I) at least ten Domestic Business Days shall have passed since the consummation of the most recent Discounted Loan Prepayment as a result of a prepayment made by the Borrower on the applicable Discounted Prepayment Effective Date; or (II) at least three Domestic Business Days shall have passed since the date the Borrower was notified that no Bank was willing to accept any prepayment of any Loan at the Specified Discount, within the Discount Range or at any discount to par value, as applicable, or in the case of Borrower Solicitation of Discounted Prepayment Offers, the date of any Borrower's election not to accept any Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers.
Discounted Loan Prepayment
provided
(B) (1) The Borrower may from time to time offer to make a Discounted Loan Prepayment by providing the Auction Agent with five Domestic Business Days' notice in the form of a Specified Discount Prepayment Notice; that (I) any such offer shall be made available, at the sole discretion of the Borrower, to (x) each Bank and/or (y) each Bank with respect to any tranche of Loans on an individual tranche basis, (II) any such offer shall specify the aggregate principal amount offered to be prepaid (the "") with respect to each applicable tranche, the tranche or tranches of Loans subject to such offer and the specific percentage discount to par (the "") of such Loans to be prepaid (it being understood that different Specified Discounts and/or Specified Discount Prepayment Amounts may be offered with respect to different tranches of Loans and, in such event, each such offer will be treated as a separate offer pursuant to the terms of this Section), (III) the Specified Discount Prepayment Amount shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $10,000,000 and whole increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (IV) each such offer shall remain outstanding through the Specified Discount Prepayment Response Date. The Auction Agent will promptly provide each Bank with respect to the applicable tranche of Loans
provided
Specified Discount Prepayment Amount
Specified Discount
 
AES - Credit Agreement
subject to such offer with a copy of such Specified Discount Prepayment Notice and a form of the Specified Discount Prepayment Response to be completed and returned by each such Bank to the Auction Agent (or its delegate) by no later than 5:00 p.m. (New York City time), on the third Domestic Business Day after the date of delivery of such notice to such Banks (the "").
Specified Discount Prepayment Response Date
(2) Each Bank receiving such offer shall notify the Auction Agent (or its delegate) by the Specified Discount Prepayment Response Date whether or not it agrees to accept a prepayment of any of its applicable then outstanding Loans at the Specified Discount and, if so (such accepting Bank, a ""), the amount and the tranches of such Bank's Loans to be prepaid at such offered discount. Each acceptance of a Discounted Loan Prepayment by a Discount Prepayment Accepting Bank shall be irrevocable. Any Bank whose Specified Discount Prepayment Response is not received by the Auction Agent by the Specified Discount Prepayment Response Date shall be deemed to have declined to accept the applicable Borrower Offer of Specified Discount Prepayment.
Discount Prepayment Accepting Bank
(3) If there is at least one Discount Prepayment Accepting Bank, the Borrower will make a prepayment of outstanding Loans pursuant to this paragraph (B) to each Discount Prepayment Accepting Bank in accordance with the respective outstanding amount and tranches of Loans specified in such Bank's Specified Discount Prepayment Response given pursuant to subsection (2) above; that, if the aggregate principal amount of Loans accepted for prepayment by all Discount Prepayment Accepting Banks exceeds the Specified Discount Prepayment Amount, such prepayment shall be made pro rata among the Discount Prepayment Accepting Banks in accordance with the respective principal amounts accepted to be prepaid by each such Discount Prepayment Accepting Bank and the Auction Agent (in consultation with the Borrower and subject to rounding requirements of the Auction Agent made in its reasonable discretion) will calculate such proration (the ""). The Auction Agent shall promptly, and in any case within three Domestic Business Days following the Specified Discount Prepayment Response Date, notify (I) the Borrower of the respective Banks' responses to such offer, the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date and the aggregate principal amount of the Discounted Loan Prepayment and the tranches to be prepaid, (II) each Bank of the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date, and the aggregate principal amount and the tranches of Loans to be prepaid at the Specified Discount on such date and (III) each Discount Prepayment Accepting Bank of the Specified Discount Proration, if any, and confirmation of the principal amount, tranche and Type of Loans of such Bank to be prepaid at the Specified Discount on such date. Each determination by the Auction Agent of the amounts stated in the foregoing notices to the Borrower and such Banks shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes absent manifest error. The payment amount specified in such notice to the Borrower shall be due and payable by the Borrower on the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date in accordance with subsection (F) below (subject to subsection (J) below).
provided
Specified Discount Proration
(C) (1) The Borrower may from time to time solicit Discount Range Prepayment Offers by providing the Auction Agent with five Domestic Business Days' notice in the form of a Discount Range Prepayment Notice; that (I) any such solicitation shall be extended, at the sole discretion of the Borrower, to (x) each Bank and/or (y) each Bank with respect to any tranche of Loans on an individual tranche basis, (II) any such notice shall specify the maximum aggregate principal amount of the relevant Loans (the "
provided
Discount Range
 
AES - Credit Agreement
"), the tranche or tranches of Loans subject to such offer and the maximum and minimum percentage discounts to par (the "") of the principal amount of such Loans with respect to each relevant tranche of Loans willing to be prepaid by the Borrower (it being understood that different Discount Ranges and/or Discount Range Prepayment Amounts may be offered with respect to different tranches of Loans and, in such event, each such offer will be treated as separate offer pursuant to the terms of this Section), (III) the Discount Range Prepayment Amount shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $10,000,000 and whole increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (IV) each such solicitation by the Borrower shall remain outstanding through the Discount Range Prepayment Response Date. The Auction Agent will promptly provide each Appropriate Bank with a copy of such Discount Range Prepayment Notice and a form of the Discount Range Prepayment Offer to be submitted by a responding Bank to the Auction Agent (or its delegate) by no later than 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third Domestic Business Day after the date of delivery of such notice to such Banks (the ""). Each Bank's Discount Range Prepayment Offer shall be irrevocable and shall specify a discount to par within the Discount Range (the "") at which such Bank is willing to allow prepayment of any or all of its then outstanding Loans of the applicable tranche or tranches and the maximum aggregate principal amount and tranches of such Bank's Loans (the "") such Bank is willing to have prepaid at the Submitted Discount. Any Bank whose Discount Range Prepayment Offer is not received by the Auction Agent by the Discount Range Prepayment Response Date shall be deemed to have declined to accept a Discounted Loan Prepayment of any of its Loans at any discount to their par value within the Discount Range.
Prepayment Amount
Discount Range
Discount Range Prepayment Response Date
Submitted Discount
Submitted Amount
(2) The Auction Agent shall review all Discount Range Prepayment Offers received on or before the applicable Discount Range Prepayment Response Date and shall determine (in consultation with the Borrower and subject to rounding requirements of the Auction Agent made in its sole reasonable discretion) the Applicable Discount and Loans to be prepaid at such Applicable Discount in accordance with this subsection (C). The Borrower agrees to accept on the Discount Range Prepayment Response Date all Discount Range Prepayment Offers received by Auction Agent by the Discount Range Prepayment Response Date, in the order from the Submitted Discount that is the largest discount to par to the Submitted Discount that is the smallest discount to par, up to and including the Submitted Discount that is the smallest discount to par within the Discount Range (such Submitted Discount that is the smallest discount to par within the Discount Range being referred to as the "") which yields a Discounted Loan Prepayment in an aggregate principal amount equal to the lower of (I) the Discount Range Prepayment Amount and (II) the sum of all Submitted Amounts. Each Bank that has submitted a Discount Range Prepayment Offer to accept prepayment at a discount to par that is larger than or equal to the Applicable Discount shall be deemed to have irrevocably consented to prepayment of Loans equal to its Submitted Amount (subject to any required proration pursuant to the following subsection (3)) at the Applicable Discount (each such Bank, a "").
Applicable Discount
Participating Bank
(3) If there is at least one Participating Bank, the Borrower will prepay the respective outstanding Loans of each Participating Bank in the aggregate principal amount and of the tranches specified in such Bank's Discount Range Prepayment Offer at the Applicable Discount; that if the Submitted Amount by all Participating Banks offered at a discount to par greater than the Applicable Discount exceeds the Discount Range
provided
 
AES - Credit Agreement
Prepayment Amount, prepayment of the principal amount of the relevant Loans for those Participating Banks whose Submitted Discount is a discount to par greater than or equal to the Applicable Discount (the "") shall be made pro rata among the Identified Participating Banks in accordance with the Submitted Amount of each such Identified Participating Bank and the Auction Agent (in consultation with the Borrower and subject to rounding requirements of the Auction Agent made in its sole reasonable discretion) will calculate such proration (the ""). The Auction Agent shall promptly, and in any case within five Domestic Business Days following the Discount Range Prepayment Response Date, notify (I) the Borrower of the respective Banks' responses to such solicitation, the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date, the Applicable Discount, and the aggregate principal amount of the Discounted Loan Prepayment and the tranches to be prepaid, (II) each Bank of the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date, the Applicable Discount, and the aggregate principal amount and tranches of Loans to be prepaid at the Applicable Discount on such date, (III) each Participating Bank of the aggregate principal amount and tranches of such Bank to be prepaid at the Applicable Discount on such date, and (IV) if applicable, each Identified Participating Bank of the Discount Range Proration. Each determination by the Auction Agent of the amounts stated in the foregoing notices to the Borrower and Banks shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes absent manifest error. The payment amount specified in such notice to the Borrower shall be due and payable by the Borrower on the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date in accordance with subsection (F) below (subject to subsection (J) below).
Identified Participating Banks
Discount Range Proration
(D) (1) The Borrower may from time to time solicit Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers by providing the Auction Agent with five Domestic Business Days' notice in the form of a Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice; that (I) any such solicitation shall be extended, at the sole discretion of the Borrower, to (x) each Bank and/or (y) each Bank with respect to any tranche of Loans on an individual tranche basis, (II) any such notice shall specify the maximum aggregate amount of the Loans (the "") and the tranche or tranches of Loans the Borrower is willing to prepay at a discount (it being understood that different Solicited Discounted Prepayment Amounts may be offered with respect to different tranches of Loans and, in such event, each such offer will be treated as separate offer pursuant to the terms of this Section), (III) the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Amount shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $10,000,000 and whole increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (IV) each such solicitation by the Borrower shall remain outstanding through the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Response Date. The Auction Agent will promptly provide each Appropriate Bank with a copy of such Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice and a form of the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer to be submitted by a responding Bank to the Auction Agent (or its delegate) by no later than 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third Domestic Business Day after the date of delivery of such notice to such Banks (the ""). Each Bank's Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer shall (x) be irrevocable, (y) remain outstanding until the Acceptance Date, and (z) specify both a discount to par (the "") at which such Bank is willing to allow prepayment of its then outstanding Loan and the maximum aggregate principal amount and tranches of such Loans (the "") such Bank is willing to have prepaid at the Offered Discount. Any Bank whose Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer is not received by the Auction Agent by the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Response Date shall be deemed to have declined prepayment of any of its Loans at any discount.
provided
Solicited Discounted Prepayment Amount
Solicited Discounted Prepayment Response Date
Offered Discount
Offered Amount
 
AES - Credit Agreement
(2) The Auction Agent shall promptly provide the Borrower with a copy of all Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers received on or before the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Response Date. The Borrower shall review all such Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers and select the largest of the Offered Discounts specified by the relevant responding Banks in the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers that is acceptable to the Borrower (the ""), if any. If the Borrower elects to accept any Offered Discount as the Acceptable Discount, then as soon as practicable after the determination of the Acceptable Discount, but in no event later than by the third Domestic Business Day after the date of receipt by the Borrower from the Auction Agent of a copy of all Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers pursuant to the first sentence of this subsection (2) (the ""), the Borrower shall submit an Acceptance and Prepayment Notice to the Auction Agent setting forth the Acceptable Discount. If the Auction Agent shall fail to receive an Acceptance and Prepayment Notice from the Borrower by the Acceptance Date, the Borrower shall be deemed to have rejected all Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers.
Acceptable Discount
Acceptance Date
(3) Based upon the Acceptable Discount and the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers received by Auction Agent by the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Response Date, within three Domestic Business Days after receipt of an Acceptance and Prepayment Notice (the ""), the Auction Agent will determine (in consultation with the Borrower and subject to rounding requirements of the Auction Agent made in its sole reasonable discretion) the aggregate principal amount and the tranches of Loans (the "") to be prepaid by the Borrower at the Acceptable Discount in accordance with this Section 2(D). If the Borrower elects to accept any Acceptable Discount, then the Borrower agrees to accept all Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers received by Auction Agent by the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Response Date, in the order from largest Offered Discount to smallest Offered Discount, up to and including the Acceptable Discount. Each Bank that has submitted a Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer with an Offered Discount that is greater than or equal to the Acceptable Discount shall be deemed to have irrevocably consented to prepayment of Loans equal to its Offered Amount (subject to any required pro-rata reduction pursuant to the following sentence) at the Acceptable Discount (each such Bank, a ""). The Borrower will prepay outstanding Loans pursuant to this subsection (D) to each Qualifying Bank in the aggregate principal amount and of the tranches specified in such Bank's Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer at the Acceptable Discount; that if the aggregate Offered Amount by all Qualifying Banks whose Offered Discount is greater than or equal to the Acceptable Discount exceeds the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Amount, prepayment of the principal amount of the Loans for those Qualifying Banks whose Offered Discount is greater than or equal to the Acceptable Discount (the "") shall be made pro rata among the Identified Qualifying Banks in accordance with the Offered Amount of each such Identified Qualifying Bank and the Auction Agent (in consultation with the Borrower and subject to rounding requirements of the Auction Agent made in its sole reasonable discretion) will calculate such proration (the ""). On or prior to the Discounted Prepayment Determination Date, the Auction Agent shall promptly notify (I) the Borrower of the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date and Acceptable Prepayment Amount comprising the Discounted Loan Prepayment and the tranches to be prepaid, (II) each Bank of the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date, the Acceptable Discount, and the Acceptable Prepayment Amount of all Loans and the tranches to be prepaid to be prepaid at the Applicable Discount on such date, (III) each
Discounted Prepayment Determination Date
Acceptable Prepayment Amount
Qualifying Bank
provided
Identified Qualifying Banks
Solicited Discount Proration
 
AES - Credit Agreement
Qualifying Bank of the aggregate principal amount and the tranches of such Bank to be prepaid at the Acceptable Discount on such date, and (IV) if applicable, each Identified Qualifying Bank of the Solicited Discount Proration. Each determination by the Auction Agent of the amounts stated in the foregoing notices to the Borrower and Banks shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes absent manifest error. The payment amount specified in such notice to the Borrower shall be due and payable by the Borrower on the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date in accordance with subsection (F) below (subject to subsection (J) below).
(E) In connection with any Discounted Loan Prepayment, the Borrower and the Banks acknowledge and agree that the Auction Agent may require as a condition to any Discounted Loan Prepayment, the payment of customary fees and expenses from the Borrower in connection therewith.
(F) If any Loan is prepaid in accordance with paragraphs (B) through (D) above, the Borrower shall prepay such Loans on the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date. The Borrower shall make such prepayment to the Agent, for the account of the Discount Prepayment Accepting Banks, Participating Banks, or Qualifying Banks, as applicable, in immediately available funds not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date and all such prepayments shall be applied to the remaining principal installments of the relevant tranche of Loans on a pro-rata basis across such installments. The Loans so prepaid shall be accompanied by all accrued and unpaid interest on the par principal amount so prepaid up to, but not including, the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date. Each prepayment of the outstanding Loans pursuant to this Section 2 shall be paid to the Discount Prepayment Accepting Banks, Participating Banks, or Qualifying Banks, as applicable, and shall be applied to the relevant Loans of such Banks in accordance with their respective pro rata share. The aggregate principal amount of the tranches and installments of the relevant Loans outstanding shall be deemed reduced by the full par value of the aggregate principal amount of the tranches of Loans prepaid on the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date in any Discounted Loan Prepayment.
(G) To the extent not expressly provided for herein, each Discounted Loan Prepayment shall be consummated pursuant to procedures consistent with the provisions in this Section 2, established by the Auction Agent acting in its reasonable discretion and as reasonably agreed by the Borrower. Notwithstanding anything in any Financing Document to the Contrary, the Borrower shall represent and warrant to the Agent and each Bank as of the date of any Borrower offer of Specified Discount Prepayment Notice, Discount Range Prepayment Notice, and Solicited Discount Prepayment Notice and as of the date of any Discounted Prepayment Effective Date, that (a) it is not in possession of any information with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or the securities of any of them that (i) has not been disclosed by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Banks generally prior to the date of determination and (ii) could be "material" as such term is used in the United States Federal and state securities laws, and (b) it was not directed to make the Discounted Loan Prepayment by an Affiliate which had information of the type referred to in clause (a). In the event that on or prior to the date of any prepayment made pursuant to Section 2(B)(3), (C)(3) and (D)(3), the foregoing representation and warranty will not be true and correct, the Borrower shall promptly notify each Bank that was notified by the Auction Agent as being scheduled to receive a Discounted Loan Prepayment pursuant to this Section 2, and any such Bank may revoke its right
 
AES - Credit Agreement
to such Discounted Loan Prepayment within two Domestic Business Days of receiving such notification by the Borrower.
(H) Notwithstanding anything in any Financing Document to the contrary, for purposes of this Section 2, each notice or other communication required to be delivered or otherwise provided to the Auction Agent (or its delegate) shall be deemed to have been given upon Auction Agent's (or its delegate's) actual receipt during normal business hours of such notice or communication; that any notice or communication actually received outside of normal business hours shall be deemed to have been given as of the opening of business on the next Domestic Business Day.
provided
(I) The Borrower and the Banks acknowledge and agree that the Auction Agent may perform any and all of its duties under this Section 2 by itself or through any Affiliate of the Auction Agent and expressly consents to any such delegation of duties by the Auction Agent to such Affiliate and the performance of such delegated duties by such Affiliate. The exculpatory provisions pursuant to this Agreement shall apply to each Affiliate of the Auction Agent and its respective activities in connection with any Discounted Loan Prepayment provided for in this Section 2 as well as activities of the Auction Agent.
(J) The Borrower shall have the right, by written notice to the Auction Agent, to revoke in full (but not in part) its offer to make a Discounted Loan Prepayment and rescind the applicable Specified Discount Prepayment Notice, Discount Range Prepayment Notice or Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice therefor at its discretion at any time on or prior to the applicable Specified Discount Prepayment Response Date (and if such offer is revoked pursuant to the preceding clauses, any failure by the Borrower to make any prepayment to a Bank, as applicable, pursuant to this Section 2 shall not constitute a Default or Event of Default under Section 6.01 or otherwise).
 
AES - Credit Agreement
Schedule 7.11
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:
Administrative Agent's Office
(for payments and Requests for Credit Extensions):
Bank of America, N.A.
901 Main St
Mail Code: TX1-492-15-05
Dallas, TX 75202-3714
Attention: Jared McClure
Telephone: 214-209-2354
Telecopier: 214-290-9413
Electronic Mail: 
jared.l.mcclure@baml.com
Account No.: 1292000883
Ref: Cedar Shopping Centers Partnership L.P.
ABA# 026009593
:
Other Notices as Administrative Agent
Bank of America, N.A.
Agency Management
101 S. Tryon Street
Mail Code: NC1-002-15-36
Charlotte, NC 28255
Attention: Maria A. McClain
Telephone: 980-388-1935
Telecopier: 704-409-0913
Electronic Mail: 
maria.a.mcclain@baml.com
BORROWER:
The AES Corporation
43 Wilson Boulevard
Arlington, Virginia 22203
Attention: Willard C. Hoagland III
Fax: 703-528-4510
EXHIBIT A
Date: , 20
                    
    
$ []
                                        
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the ""), hereby promises to pay to or registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Bank to the Borrower under that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers (the "") and Joint Book Runners (the ""), J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. as Co-Syndication Agents (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each Bank from time to time party thereto. The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. All payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Agent for the account of the Bank in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
                                        
Bank
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Joint Lead Arrangers
Joint Book Runners
Co-Syndication Agents
Agent
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Credit Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Credit Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Bank shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Bank in the ordinary course of business. The Bank may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
 
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B-1
June [    ], 2011
To the Bank Parties
and the Administrative Agent
referred to Below
c/o Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am the Assistant General Counsel of The AES Corporation (the "Company"), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and have acted as counsel for the Company in connection with the Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") dated as of May 27, 2011 among AES, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof on the date hereof (the "Bank Parties"), as Administrative Agent. Terms in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined. This opinion is being furnished to you pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(i) of the Credit Agreement.
In rendering this opinion, I have examined, and relied on, subject to the assumptions and qualifications herein, executed counterparts of the Credit Agreement and such agreements, instruments and documents and have conducted such investigations of law as I have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions hereafter expressed. As to questions of fact material to this opinion, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established, relied upon certificates of appropriate public officials and officers and representatives of the Company and other appropriate persons, and upon the factual representations or statements made by these persons or in the Credit Agreement. In all such examinations, I have assumed, without independent verification the authenticity and completeness of documents purporting to be originals (whether examined in original, facsimile or copy form), the conformity to originals of documents purporting to be photostatic or facsimile copies of originals, and the genuineness of all signatures.
I make no observations and give no opinion in relation to any contract, instrument or document other than the Credit Agreement (whether or not referred to in the Credit Agreement) nor have I made any enquiries concerning any party to the Credit Agreement, or other person or entity, other than the Company.
This opinion is strictly limited to the matters stated in it and is not to be read as extending by implication to any other matter or any other contract,
instrument or document executed in connection with the Credit Agreement or the transactions contemplated by them or otherwise.
On the basis of the foregoing, and having regard for such legal considerations as I deem relevant, I am of the opinion that:
(i) The Company is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Delaware and has all corporate or other organizational powers and, to my knowledge, all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted;
(ii) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Credit Agreement, the designation of the obligations of the Company under the Credit Agreement as Secured Obligations under the Collateral Trust Agreement and the Security Agreement and the performance of the Company's obligations under the Collateral Trust Agreement and the Security Agreement, are within the Company's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official and do not (i) contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of (1) the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company or (2) to my knowledge, (A) any law or regulation applicable to the Company or (B) any judgment, injunction, order or decree binding upon the Company or (C) any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing any Debt of the Company in the amount of $100,000,000 or more ("Specified Debt") or (ii) result in or require the creation or imposition of any lien or any asset of the Company under any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing any Specified Debt; and
(iii) Except for Disclosed Matters, there is no action, suit, investigation of which the Company has notice, litigation or proceeding pending against, or to my knowledge threatened against, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official in which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse decision which could have a Material Adverse Effect, or which in any manner draws into question the legality, validity or enforceability of the Credit Agreement.
I am a member of the Bar of the State of Illinois, however, this opinion relates solely to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States as at the date and time of its issue. I have made no investigation of, and neither express nor imply any opinion with respect to the laws of any state or jurisdiction other than the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States.
This opinion may be relied upon solely by each of the addressees hereto, and may not be relied upon by any other person, nor used, circulated, quoted or otherwise referred to for any other purpose, without my prior written consent, except that any Person that becomes a Bank Party in accordance with Section 10.06(c) of the Credit Agreement may rely upon this opinion as if it were specifically addressed and delivered to such Person on the date hereof.
 
EXHIBIT B-2
June [    ], 2011
To the Bank Parties
    and the Administrative Agent
    referred to Below
c/o Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have participated in the preparation of the Credit Agreement dated as of May 27, 2011 (the "") among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), the banks listed on the signature pages thereof as of the date hereof (the "") and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the ""). We have acted as special New York counsel for AES for the purpose of rendering this opinion pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(ii) of the Credit Agreement. Terms used (but not defined) herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
AES
Bank Parties
Administrative Agent
We have reviewed executed copies of:
(i) the Credit Agreement;
(ii) the Security Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 (the "" and, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 29, 2003 and as further amended through the date hereof, the "") made by AES to the Collateral Trustees named therein; and
Original Security Agreement
Security Agreement
(iii) the Collateral Trust Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 (the "" and, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 29, 2003, Amendment No. 2 dated as of March 17, 2004, Amendment No. 3 dated as of August 20, 2009 and as further amended through the date hereof and as supplemented by the Notice delivered by AES to the Collateral Trustees designating the Credit Agreement as an "Other Debt Agreement" dated as of the date hereof, the "") made by the grantors thereunder in favor of the Collateral Trustees named therein.
Original Collateral Trust Agreement
Collateral Trust Agreement
We have also examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such documents, corporate records and certificates of public officials and officers of AES and have conducted such other investigations of fact and law as we have deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of this opinion.
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions and qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that:
 
1. The execution, delivery and performance by AES of the Credit Agreement require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official under United States federal or New York State law (other than filings and recordings to perfect security interests granted) and do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable United States federal or New York State law or regulation, in each case that in our experience is normally applicable to general business corporations in relation to transactions of the type contemplated by the Credit Agreement.
2. Each of the Credit Agreement, the Security Agreement and the Collateral Trust Agreement (collectively, the "" and each a "") constitutes a valid and binding agreement of AES, enforceable against AES in accordance with its terms.
Credit Documents
Credit Document
3. The Security Agreement is effective to create, in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders, as security for the Secured Obligations, a valid security interest (the "") in the right, title and interest of AES in that portion of the Collateral, as defined in the Security Agreement, described therein in which a security interest may be created pursuant to Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of New York on the date hereof (the "").
AES Security Interest
UCC
4. Assuming that the certificates evidencing the Pledged Equity (as defined in the Security Agreement) that constitute "certificated securities" within the meaning of Section 8-102(a)(4) of the UCC (the "") and instruments constituting the Pledged Debt (as defined in the Security Agreement) that constitute "instruments" within the meaning of Section 9-102(a)(47) of the UCC (the ""), in each case indorsed by an appropriate person in blank or accompanied by instruments of transfer or assignment in blank duly executed by an appropriate person, have been delivered on or prior to the date hereof to the Collateral Trustees, and have been continuously held by the Collateral Trustees since such delivery, in each case in the State of New York, (i) the AES Security Interest in such Pledged Certificated Equity Securities and such Pledged Instruments is perfected and (ii) the Collateral Trustees have, for the benefit of the Secured Holders, control (within the meaning of Section 8-106 of the UCC) of such Pledged Certificated Equity Securities.
Pledged Certificated Equity Securities
Pledged Instruments
5. AES is not required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
The foregoing opinions are subject to the following qualifications:
(i) Our opinions in paragraphs 2 through 4 above are subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, concepts of reasonableness and equitable principles of general applicability.
(ii) We express no opinion as to (x) the effect of fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer or similar provisions of applicable law on the conclusions expressed above or (y) any provision of any Credit Document that purports to avoid the effect of fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer or similar provisions of applicable law by limiting the amount of any obligations of AES.
 
(iii) We express no opinion as to the effect (if any) of any law of any jurisdiction (except the State of New York) in which any Bank Party is located which may limit the rate of interest that such Bank Party may charge or collect.
(iv) We express no opinion as to provisions in the Credit Documents that purport to (1) indemnify any Person for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct or (2) confer upon any Person the right to require specific performance or to receive liquidated damages.
(v) We express no opinion as to provisions in the Credit Documents that purport to create rights of set-off in favor of participants or that provide for set-off to be made otherwise than in accordance with applicable laws.
(vi) We express no opinion as to provisions in the Credit Documents that purport to waive objections to venue, claims that a particular jurisdiction is an inconvenient forum or the like.
(vii) We express no opinion as to whether a United States federal court would have subject-matter or personal jurisdiction over a controversy arising under the Credit Documents.
(viii) We express no opinion as to the right, title or interest of AES in or to any collateral or the value given therefor.
(ix) Except as expressly set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 above, we express no opinion as to the creation, attachment, perfection or priority of any security interest.
(x) We note the possible unenforceability in whole or in part of certain remedial provisions of the Security Agreement and the Collateral Trust Agreement (the "Collateral Documents"), although the inclusion of such provisions does not render the Collateral Documents invalid and, subject, to the extent applicable, to Section 9-408(c) of the UCC, each of the Collateral Documents contains, in our judgment, adequate remedial provisions for the practical realization of the rights and benefits afforded thereby. In addition, we note that any foreclosure or other exercise of remedies by the Collateral Trustees will require additional approvals and consents that have not been obtained from foreign and domestic regulators and from lenders to, and suppliers, customers or other contractual parties of one or more Subsidiaries of AES and failure to obtain such approval or consent could result in a default, or a breach of agreement or other legal obligations of such Subsidiaries.
(xi) Any security interest in proceeds is subject to the limitations set forth in Section 9-315 of the UCC.
(xii) Our opinions in paragraphs 3 and 4 above are limited to Articles 8 and 9 of the UCC.
 
(xiii) We express no opinion as to whether a New York State or United States federal court would enforce the exclusivity of the jurisdiction of any New York State or United States federal court provided for in the Credit Documents.
(xiv) We express no opinion on the effectiveness of any service of process made other than in accordance with applicable law.
(xv) Except as expressly set forth in paragraph 5 above, we express no opinion as to the United States federal or any state securities laws.
(xvi) We express no opinion as to the validity, legally binding effect or enforceability of any provision of the Credit Documents that permits a Bank to collect any portion of the stated principal amount of any Loan upon acceleration or prepayment thereof to the extent determined to constitute unearned interest.
(xvii) As to various provisions in the Credit Documents that grant the Administrative Agent, the Banks or the Collateral Trustees certain rights to make determinations or take actions in their discretion, we assume that such discretion will be exercised in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner.
(xviii) We express no opinion as to any regulatory scheme applicable to, or any license or permit required in connection with, the businesses conducted by AES or its subsidiaries and our opinions expressed in paragraph 1 above relate only to laws, actions and filings, which, in our experience, are normally applicable to general business corporations in relation to transactions of the type contemplated by the Credit Agreement and, in particular, we express no opinion as to the Federal Power Act or any other energy or electricity law or any rule or regulation thereunder or any law, rule or regulation applicable to, or any approval given or required to be given by, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The foregoing opinion is limited to the laws of the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States of America. We have assumed that (i) AES is validly existing and, to the extent applicable, in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and (ii) the execution, delivery and performance by AES of the Credit Agreement are within its corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of AES and do not contravene the articles or certificate of incorporation or bylaws or other constitutive documents of AES or any law, rule or regulation (other than applicable United States federal or New York State laws and regulations that in our experience are normally applicable to general business corporations in relation to transactions of the type contemplated by the Credit Agreement) applicable to AES. We have further assumed that AES has duly executed and delivered the Credit Agreement. We have assumed that (i) at the time that each of the Original Security Agreement, the Original Collateral Trust Agreement and any amendment thereto (collectively, the "") was entered into by AES and at all times thereafter, (x) AES was validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (y) the execution, delivery and performance by AES of each Underlying Document were within its corporate powers, had been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of AES and did not contravene the constitutive documents of AES or any law, rule or regulation applicable to AES and (z) each Underlying Document was executed and delivered by
Underlying Documents
 
AES and (ii) immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement and the designation of the Credit Agreement as an "Other Debt Agreement" under the Collateral Trust Agreement, (w) each Collateral Document constituted a valid and binding agreement of each party thereto, (x) the Security Agreement was effective to create, in favor of the Collateral Trustees for the benefit of the Secured Holders, as security for the Secured Obligations, a valid security interest (the "") in the right, title and interest of AES in that portion of the Collateral, as defined therein, described therein in which a security interest may be created pursuant to Article 9 of the UCC, (y) the Existing AES Security Interest in the Pledged Certificated Equity Securities and Pledged Instruments was perfected and (z) the Collateral Trustees had, for the benefit of the Secured Holders, control (within the meaning of Section 8-106 of the UCC) of the Pledged Certificated Equity Securities. This opinion is delivered to you in connection with the above matter.
Existing AES Security Agreement
This opinion may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose or relied upon by any other person without our prior written consent, except that any person that becomes a Bank Party in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.06(c) of the Credit Agreement may rely upon this opinion as if it were specifically addressed and delivered to such person on the date hereof.
Very truly yours,
EXHIBIT B-3
The addressees listed on Schedule I attached hereto
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special Delaware counsel to The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Borrower"), in connection with certain matters of Delaware law set forth below relating to that certain Credit Agreement dated , 2011 (the "Credit Agreement") among the Borrower, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book runners, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as co-syndication agents, Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole CIB, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities, Scotia Capital and Union Bank, N.A., as co-managers, Bank of America, N.A., as agent (in such capacity, the "Agent"), and the banks listed on the signature pages thereof as of the date hereof (collectively, the "Bank Parties" and each, individually, a "Bank Party"). Non-capitalized terms used in connection with the opinions given herein with respect to matters within the scope of Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code are used as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted and presently in effect in the State of Delaware (the "Delaware UCC"), to the extent that they are defined in the Delaware UCC.
                    
In rendering this opinion, we have examined and relied upon copies of the following documents in the forms provided to us: the Security Agreement dated December 12, 2002 (the "Original Security Agreement") by and among the Borrower, the other persons listed on the signature pages thereof and the Additional Grantors (as defined therein), Wilmington
To the addressees listed on Schedule I
June 1, 2011
Page 2
 
Trust Company, as corporate trustee (the "Original Corporate Trustee") and Bruce L. Bisson, as individual trustee (the "Original Individual Trustee" and together with the Original Corporate Trustee, the "Original Collateral Trustees"); Amendment No. 1 dated July 29, 2003 to the Original Security Agreement (the "Security Agreement Amendment" and together with the Original Security Agreement amended thereby, the "Security Agreement"); the Collateral Trust Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 (the "Original Collateral Trust Agreement") by and among the Borrower, the other persons listed on the signature pages thereto, the Additional Grantors (as defined in the Security Agreement) and the Original Collateral Trustees; Amendment No. 1 dated July 29, 2003 to the Original Collateral Trust Agreement (the "Collateral Trust First Amendment" and together with the Original Collateral Trust Agreement amended thereby, the "First Amended Collateral Trust Agreement"); Amendment No. 2 dated March 17, 2004 to the First Amended Collateral Trust Agreement (the "Collateral Trust Second Amendment" and together with the First Amended Collateral Trust Agreement amended thereby, the "Second Amended Collateral Trust Agreement"); Amendment No. 3 dated August 26, 2009 to the Second Amended Collateral Trust Agreement (the "Collateral Trust Third Amendment" and together with the Second Amended Collateral Trust Agreement amended thereby, the "Collateral Trust Agreement"); the Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated as of December 13, 2004 by and among the Original Collateral Trustees, as assignors, Union Bank of California, N.A. (the "Corporate Trustee") and Vicki Elnick (the "Individual Trustee" and together with the Corporate Trustee, the "Collateral Trustees"), as assignees, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Required Representative (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement); the UCC-1 Financing Statement No. 2008 1876760 naming Borrower as "debtor" and the Collateral Trustees as "secured party" (the "Original Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement") as filed in the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "State Office") on June 2, 2008; the UCC Financing Statement Amendment No. 2008 2423570 naming Borrower as "debtor" and the Collateral Trustees as "secured party" (the "Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement Amendment" and the Original Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement as amended by the Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement Amendment, the "Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement") as filed in the State Office on July 15, 2008; the UCC-1 Financing Statement No. 2008 1876935 naming Borrower as "debtor" and the Collateral Trustees as "secured party" (the "Original Borrower Collateral Trust Agreement Financing Statement" and together with the Original Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement, the "Original Financing Statements" and each individually, an "Original Financing Statement") as filed in the State Office on June 2, 2008; the UCC Financing Statement Amendment No. 2008 2423794 naming Borrower as "debtor" and the Collateral Trustees as "secured party" (the "Borrower Collateral Trust Agreement Financing Statement Amendment" and the Original Borrower Collateral Trust Agreement Financing Statement as amended by the Borrower Collateral Trust Agreement Financing Statement Amendment, the "Borrower Collateral Trust Agreement Financing Statement") as filed in the State Office on July 15, 2008; and a certified copy of the Sixth Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Borrower as filed in the State Office on April 25, 2000. In such examinations, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies or drafts of documents to be executed and the legal competence and capacity of natural persons to complete the execution of documents. We have further assumed for purposes of this opinion: (i) the due formation or
To the addressees listed on Schedule I
June 1, 2011
Page 3
 
organization, valid existence and good standing of each entity that is a signatory to any of the above-referenced documents under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation or organization; (ii) the due authorization, authentication, adoption, approval, certification, acknowledgement, execution, filing, indexing and delivery, as applicable, of each of the above-referenced documents by each of the parties thereto; (iii) that the Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement provides the mailing address of Borrower and the names and mailing addresses of the Collateral Trustees and sufficiently indicates the "Collateral" (as defined in the Security Agreement) in accordance with Section 9-502 of the Delaware UCC; (iv) that the Borrower Collateral Trust Agreement Financing Statement provides the mailing address of Borrower and the names and mailing addresses of the Collateral Trustees and sufficiently indicates the "Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral" (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement) in accordance with Section 9-502 of the Delaware UCC; (v) that the Borrower is organized solely under the laws of the State of Delaware; (vi) that each of the above-referenced documents constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of each of the parties thereto and is enforceable against each of the parties thereto in accordance with its terms; and (vii) that the documents examined by us are in full force and effect, express the entire understanding of the parties thereto with respect to the subject matter thereof and have not been amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, except as referenced herein. No opinion is expressed herein with respect to the requirements of, or compliance with, federal or state securities or blue sky laws. As to any facts material to our opinion, other than those assumed, we have relied without independent investigation on the above-referenced documents and on the accuracy as of the date hereof of the matters therein contained. We have not reviewed any documents other than those referenced above in connection with rendering this opinion, and we have assumed there are no documents that are contrary to or inconsistent with the opinions herein expressed.
Based on and subject to the foregoing and to the further assumptions and qualifications set forth below, and limited in all respects to matters of Delaware law, it is our opinion that:
1. The Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement having been filed, solely to the extent that the Delaware UCC is applicable to the perfection of the security interest of the Collateral Trustees in the "Collateral" (as defined in the Security Agreement) owned or acquired by Borrower (the "Borrower Collateral"), the security interest of the Collateral Trustees in that portion of the Borrower Collateral as to which a security interest can be perfected by filing a financing statement in the State Office under the Delaware UCC (the "Borrower Filing Collateral") is perfected.
2. The Borrower Collateral Trust Agreement Financing Statement having been filed, solely to the extent that the Delaware UCC is applicable to the perfection of the security interest of the Collateral Trustees in the "Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral" (as defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement) owned or acquired by Borrower (the "Borrower Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral"), the security interest of the Collateral Trustees in that portion of the Borrower Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral as to which a security interest can be perfected by filing a financing statement in the
To the addressees listed on Schedule I
June 1, 2011
Page 4
 
State Office under the Delaware UCC (the "Borrower Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Filing Collateral") is perfected.
In connection with the opinions set forth above, we have assumed that (i) the Security Agreement creates or, with respect to after acquired property, will create in favor of the Collateral Trustees a valid security interest in and to the Borrower Filing Collateral, which security interest has attached or, with respect to after acquired property, will attach under the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of New York (the "New York UCC"), (ii) the Collateral Trust Agreement creates or, with respect to after acquired property, will create in favor of the Collateral Trustees a valid security interest in and to the Borrower Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Filing Collateral (collectively with the Borrower Filing Collateral, the "Filing Collateral"), which security interest has attached or, with respect to after acquired property, will attach under the New York UCC, and (iii) the substantive laws of the Delaware UCC (and not the Delaware UCC choice-of-law rules) govern the perfection of a security interest in the Filing Collateral.
In addition, in connection with the opinions set forth above, we express no opinion as to (i) the effect of perfection or nonperfection or the priority of any security interest of the Collateral Trustees in any portion of the Filing Collateral, (ii) the existence, legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of any security interest under the Security Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement or otherwise, (iii) the rights or interests of any of the parties to the Security Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement or any other person or entity in, or title of any such parties, persons or entities to, any of the Filing Collateral, or as to the value of any such Filing Collateral, (iv) any Borrower Collateral or Borrower Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral until such Borrower Collateral or Borrower Additional Collateral Trust Agreement Collateral is acquired by Borrower; (v) in the case of any Filing Collateral that is secured by other property, the rights or interests of any of the parties to the Security Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement or any other person or entity in, or title of any such parties, persons or entities to, any of such underlying property, (vi) any collateral other than the Filing Collateral, (vii) any Filing Collateral due from any government or any agency or instrumentality thereof, (viii) any Filing Collateral that constitutes fixtures, as-extracted collateral or timber to be cut, (ix) any Filing Collateral that constitutes commercial tort claims, (x) any Filing Collateral that constitutes consumer goods, (xi) any Filing Collateral that constitutes goods subject to a negotiable document of title and (xii) transactions excluded from the application of Article 9 of the Delaware UCC pursuant to the provisions of Section 9-109 thereof. Further, to the extent the opinions set forth above relate to proceeds, such opinions are subject to the qualification that the perfection of an interest in proceeds is subject to the limitations and requirements of Section 9-315 of the Delaware UCC.
Further, in connection with the opinions set forth above, we note that the security interest of the Collateral Trustees in certain Filing Collateral may be subject to the rights of account debtors in respect of such Filing Collateral, claims and defenses of such account debtors and terms of agreements with such account debtors.
In addition, we express no opinion as to any actions that may be required to be taken periodically under the Delaware UCC or other applicable law in order for the effectiveness
To the addressees listed on Schedule I
June 1, 2011
Page 5
 
of the Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement or the Borrower Collateral Trust Agreement Financing Statement (the Borrower Collateral Trust Agreement Financing Statement together with the Borrower Security Agreement Financing Statement, the "Financing Statements" and each individually, a "Financing Statement"), or the perfection of the security interest of the Collateral Trustees in the Filing Collateral, to be maintained. We note, however, that the perfection of the security interest of the Collateral Trustees in the Filing Collateral and the effectiveness of each Financing Statement will either terminate or be materially limited (i) unless an appropriate continuation statement is properly filed (a) within the period of six months prior to the expiration of the five-year period from the date of the original filing of each Original Financing Statement and (b) if a prior continuation statement has been filed, within the period of six months prior to the expiration of the Original Financing Statement continued by such prior continuation statement, (ii) if Borrower changes its name so as to make the relevant Financing Statement seriously misleading, unless an amendment to such Financing Statement that renders such Financing Statement not seriously misleading is properly filed within four months after such a change in name, (iii) if Borrower changes its jurisdiction of formation or organization to another jurisdiction, four months after Borrower changes its jurisdiction of formation or organization to another jurisdiction, unless such security interest is perfected in such new jurisdiction within such time, (iv) if Borrower transfers the relevant Filing Collateral to a person or entity that thereby becomes a debtor and is located in another jurisdiction, one year after Borrower transfers such Filing Collateral to a person or entity that thereby becomes a debtor and is located in another jurisdiction, unless such security interest is perfected in such new jurisdiction within such time, and (v) if Borrower becomes organized under the laws of another jurisdiction in addition to the State of Delaware.
Further, the opinions set forth above are subject to the effect of (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other laws of general application relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies, as from time to time in effect, (ii) application of equitable principles (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), (iii) principles of course of dealing or course of performance and standards of good faith, fair dealing, materiality and reasonableness that may be applied by a court to the exercise of rights and remedies by, and other acts of, a creditor, and (iv) considerations of public policy with respect to the enforceability of exculpation, indemnification and limitation on damages provisions.
This opinion speaks only as of the date hereof, and is based on our understandings and assumptions as to present facts and a review of the above referenced documents and the application of Delaware law as the same exist on the date hereof, and we undertake no duty to update or supplement this opinion for the benefit of any person or entity with respect to any facts or circumstances that may hereafter come to our attention or any changes in facts, circumstances or law that may hereafter occur or take effect. The opinions herein expressed are intended solely for the benefit of the addressees hereof and may not be relied upon by any other person or entity or for any other purpose without our prior written consent except that any person or entity that becomes a Bank Party in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.06(c) of the Credit Agreement may rely upon this opinion as if it were specifically addressed and delivered to such person on the date hereof.
To the addressees listed on Schedule I
June 1, 2011
Page 6
 
The Bank Parties
c/o Bank of America, N.A., as Agent
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
The Agent
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
EXHIBIT B-4
Our ref SMC/600534/21145685v3
to the Addressees named in the Schedule
[] 2011
date
Dear Sirs
AES International Holdings II, Ltd.
We have acted as counsel as to Cayman Islands law to AES International Holdings II, Ltd. (the "") in connection with the entry by the Company into (i) the Credit Agreement among AES Corporation as borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as Agent, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Runners, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole CIB, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities, Scotia Capital, Union Bank, N.A., as Co-Managers, the Banks listed therein and the Subsidiary Guarantors a party thereto; and (ii) the Charge and Assignment of Shares dated as of 12 December 2002 between the Company, as chargor, the Wilmington Trust Company, as corporate trustee, and Bruce L. Bisson as the individual trustee, as amended by an assignment and assumption agreement dated 13 December 2004 between Wilmington Trust Company, as corporate trustee, Bruce L. Bisson as individual trustee, Union Bank of California, N.A. and Vicki Elnick and Citicorp USA, Inc. as required representative (the "").
Company
Charge over Shares
 
We have reviewed originals, copies, drafts or conformed copies of the following documents:
 
 
 
 
The following opinion is given only as to, and based on, circumstances and matters of fact existing and known to us on the date of this opinion. This opinion only relates to the laws of the Cayman Islands which are in force on the date of this opinion. In giving this opinion we have relied (without further verification)
 
upon the completeness and accuracy of the Director's Certificate. We have also relied upon the following assumptions, which we have not independently verified:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based upon, and subject to, the foregoing assumptions and the qualifications set out below, and having regard to such legal considerations as we deem relevant, we are of the opinion that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Cayman Islands currently have no form of income, corporate or capital gains tax and no estate duty, inheritance tax or gift tax.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The opinions expressed above are subject to the following qualifications:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We express no view as to the commercial terms of the Charge over Shares or whether such terms represent the intentions of the parties and make no comment with regard to the representations that may be made by the Company.
This opinion is addressed to and is for the benefit solely of the addressees and may not be relied upon by, or disclosed to, any other person without our prior written consent.
Yours faithfully
Maples and Calder
 
The Banks and the Administrative Agent (as defined below)
c/o Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
AES International Holdings II, Ltd.
PO Box 662
Road Town, Tortola
British Virgin Islands
[
date
]
 
PO Box 309, Ugland House
Grand Cayman
KY1-1104
Cayman Islands
Dear Sirs
AES El Salvador, Ltd. (the "")
Company
I, [    ], being a director of the Company, am aware that you are being asked to provide a legal opinion (the "") in relation to certain aspects of Cayman Islands law. Capitalised terms used in this certificate have the meaning given to them in the Opinion. I hereby certify that:
Opinion
 
 
I confirm that you may continue to rely on this certificate as being true and correct on the day that you issue the Opinion unless I shall have previously notified you personally to the contrary.
 
EXHIBIT B-5
Form of Opinion
 
The Banks and the Administrative Agent (as defined below)
c/o Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
[    ] June 2011
Dear Sirs
(the "")
AES International Holdings II, Ltd.
Company
We have acted as counsel as to British Virgin Islands law to the Company in connection with the entry by the Company into the Credit Agreement dated 27 May 2011 among AES Corporation ("") as borrower, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Runners, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole CIB, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities, Scotia Capital, Union Bank, N.A., as Co-Managers, Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties and each lender from time to time party thereto (collective the "").
AES
Banks
 
We have reviewed originals, copies, drafts or conformed copies of the following documents:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The documents referred to in paragraphs 1.4 to 1.7 above are collectively referred to as the "".
Transaction Documents
 
In giving this opinion we have assumed (without further verification) the completeness and accuracy of the Registered Agent's Certificate and the Director's Certificate. We have also relied upon the following assumptions, which we have not independently verified:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based upon, and subject to, the foregoing assumptions and the qualifications set out below, and having regard to such legal considerations as we deem relevant, we are of the opinion that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Companies incorporated or registered under the Act are currently exempt from income and corporate tax. In addition, the British Virgin Islands currently does not levy capital gains tax on companies incorporated or registered under the Act. There is no applicable statutory usury or interest limitation law in the British Virgin Islands which would restrict the recovery of payments or the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Transaction Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the facts of this matter presented to us we know of no reason, at the date hereof, which would prevent or hinder the enforcement of such a final judgment in the British Virgin Islands.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The opinions expressed above are subject to the following qualifications:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This opinion may be relied upon by the addressees only. It may not be relied upon by any other person except with our prior written consent, except that any person that becomes a Bank Party in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.06(c) of the Credit Agreement may rely upon this opinion as if it were specifically addressed and delivered to such person on the date hereof."
Yours faithfully
 
Maples and Calder
 
EXHIBIT C
This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each]
Assignment and Assumption
1
Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] "") and [the][each]
Assignor
2
Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ""). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]
Assignee
3
hereunder are several and not joint.]
4
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignor's][the respective Assignors'] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Bank][their respective capacities as Banks] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Bank)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Banks)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
1. :
Assignor[s]
            
                                        
 
 
[for each Assignee, indicate [Affiliate][Approved Fund] of []]
identify Bank
3. : The AES Corporation
Borrower(s)
4. : Bank of America, N.A., as the agent under the Credit Agreement
Agent
5. : Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time), among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties and each lender from time to time party thereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a "")
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Banks
Bank
6. :
Assigned Interest[s]
 
[7. : ]
Trade Date
        
                    
10
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                                    
        
    
 
 
 
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1. . [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][[the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2. . [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Bank under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section 10.06(c) of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 10.06(c) of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Bank thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Bank thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by [the][such] Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire [the][such] Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 4.05 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Bank, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Bank, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Bank.
Assignee
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to [the][the relevant] Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
 
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT D
Date: , 20
            
    
To: [Bank of America, N.A.], as Auction Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This Acceptance and Prepayment Notice is delivered to you pursuant to (a) Section 2(D) of Schedule 2.10 of that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""), among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each lender from time to time party thereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a "") and (b) that certain Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice, dated , 20, from the Borrower (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Agent
Banks
Bank
            
    
Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice
Pursuant to Section 2(D) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower hereby irrevocably notifies you that it accepts offers delivered in response to the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice having an Offered Discount equal to or greater than [[]% in respect of the Loans] [[]% in respect of the [, 20]
1
tranche[(s)] of the []
    
2
Loans] (the "") in an aggregate amount not to exceed the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Amount.
Acceptable Discount
The Borrower expressly agrees that this Acceptance and Prepayment Notice shall be irrevocable and is subject to the provisions of Section 2(D) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement.
The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Auction Agent and [the Banks][each Bank of the [, 20]
3
tranche[s] of the []
    
4
Loans] as follows:
1. [At least ten Business Days have passed since the consummation of the most recent Discounted Loan Prepayment as a result of a prepayment made by the Borrower on the applicable Discounted Prepayment Effective Date.] [At least three Business Days have passed since the date the Borrower was notified that no Bank was willing to accept any prepayment of any Loan at the Specified Discount, within the Discount Range or at any discount to par value, as applicable, or in the case of Borrower Solicitation of Discounted Prepayment Offers, the date of any Borrower's election not to accept any Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers made by a Bank.]
5
2. The Borrower (a) does not possess any information with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or the securities of any of them that (i) has not been disclosed by or on
 
 
behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Banks generally prior to the date hereof and (ii) could be "material" as such term is used in the United States Federal and state securities laws, and (b) was not directed to deliver this Acceptance and Prepayment Notice in connection with a proposed Discounted Loan Prepayment by an Affiliate which had information of the type referred to in clause (a).
The Borrower acknowledges that the Auction Agent and the relevant Banks are relying on the truth and accuracy of the foregoing representations and warranties in connection with the acceptance of any prepayment made in connection with a Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer.
The Borrower requests that the Auction Agent promptly notify each Bank party to the Credit Agreement of this Acceptance and Prepayment Notice.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Acceptance and Prepayment Notice as of the date first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT E
Date: , 20
            
    
To: [Bank of America, N.A.], as Auction Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This Discount Range Prepayment Notice is delivered to you pursuant to Section 2(C) of Schedule 2.10 of that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""), among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each lender from time to time party thereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Agent
Banks
Bank
Pursuant to Section 2(C) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower hereby requests that [each Bank] [each Bank of the [, 20]
1
tranche[s] of the []
    
2
Loans] submit a Discount Range Prepayment Offer. Any Discounted Loan Prepayment made in connection with this solicitation shall be subject to the following terms:
1. This Borrower Solicitation of Discount Range Prepayment Notice is extended at the sole discretion of the Borrower to [each Bank] [each Bank of the [, 20]
3
tranche[s] of the []
    
4
Loans].
2. The maximum aggregate principal amount of the Discounted Loan Prepayment that will be made in connection with this solicitation is [$[] of Loans] [$[] of the [, 20]
5
tranche[(s)] of the []
    
6
Loans] (the "").
Discount Range Prepayment Amount
7
3. The Borrower is willing to make Discount Loan Prepayments at a percentage discount to par value greater than or equal to [[]% but less than or equal to []% in respect of the Loans] [[]% but less than or equal to []% in respect of the [, 20]
8
tranche[(s)] of the []
    
9
Loans] (the "").
Discount Range
To make an offer in connection with this solicitation, you are required to deliver to the Auction Agent a Discount Range Prepayment Offer by no later than 5:00 p.m., New York time, on the
 
 
date that is the third Business Day following the date of delivery of this notice pursuant to Section 2(C) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement.
The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Auction Agent and [the Banks][each Bank of the [, 20]
10
tranche[s] of the []
    
11
Loans] as follows:
1. [At least ten Business Days have passed since the consummation of the most recent Discounted Loan Prepayment as a result of a prepayment made by a Borrower on the applicable Discounted Prepayment Effective Date.][At least three Business Days have passed since the date the Borrower was notified that no Bank was willing to accept any prepayment of any Loan at the Specified Discount, within the Discount Range or at any discount to par value, as applicable, or in the case of Borrower Solicitation of Discounted Prepayment Offers, the date of any Borrower's election not to accept any Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers made by a Bank.]
12
2. As of the date hereof and as of the date of any Discounted Prepayment Effective Date with respect to this Discount Range Prepayment Notice, the Borrower (a) does not possess any information with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or the securities of any of them that (i) has not been disclosed by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Banks generally prior to each such date and (ii) could be "material" as such term is used in the United States Federal and state securities laws, and (b) was not directed to deliver this Discount Range Prepayment Notice in connection with a proposed Discounted Loan Prepayment by an Affiliate which had information of the type referred to in clause (a). The Borrower agrees that if on or prior to the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date with respect to this Discount Range Prepayment Notice this representation and warranty will not be true and correct, it shall promptly notify each Bank that was notified by the Auction Agent as being scheduled to receive a Discounted Loan Prepayment in connection with this Discount Range Prepayment Notice, and any such Bank may revoke its right to such Discounted Loan Prepayment within two Domestic Business Days of receiving such notification by the Borrower.
The Borrower acknowledges that the Auction Agent and the relevant Banks are relying on the truth and accuracy of the foregoing representations and warranties in connection with any Discount Range Prepayment Offer made in response to this Discount Range Prepayment Notice and the acceptance of any prepayment made in connection with this Discount Range Prepayment Notice.
The Borrower requests that the Auction Agent promptly notify each Bank party to the Credit Agreement of this Discount Range Prepayment Notice.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Discount Range Prepayment Notice as of the date first above written.
 
Enclosure: Form of Discount Range Prepayment Offer
 
EXHIBIT F
Date: , 20
            
    
To: Bank of America, N.A.], as Auction Agent
[
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to (a) that Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""), among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each lender from time to time party thereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and (b) that certain Discount Range Prepayment Notice, dated , 20, from the applicable Borrower (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Discount Range Prepayment Notice or, to the extent not defined therein, in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Agent
Banks
Bank
            
    
Discount Range Prepayment Notice
The undersigned Bank hereby gives you irrevocable notice, pursuant to Section 2(C)(1) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement, that it is hereby offering to accept a Discounted Loan Prepayment on the following terms:
1. This Discount Range Prepayment Offer is available only for prepayment on [the Loans] [the [, 20]
1
tranche[s] of the []
    
2
Loans] held by the undersigned.
2. The maximum aggregate principal amount of the Discounted Loan Prepayment that may be made in connection with this offer shall not exceed (the ""):
Submitted Amount
[Loans - $[]]
[[, 20]
3
tranche[s] of the []
    
4
Loans - $[]]
3. The percentage discount to par value at which such Discounted Loan Prepayment may be made is [[]% in respect of the Loans] [[]% in respect of the [, 20]
5
tranche[(s)] of the []
    
6
Loans] (the "").
Submitted Discount
The undersigned Bank hereby expressly and irrevocably consents and agrees to a prepayment of its [Loans] [[, 20]
7
tranche[s] of the []
    
8
Loans] indicated above pursuant to
 
 
Section 2(C)(1) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement at a price equal to the Applicable Discount and in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed the Submitted Amount, as such amount may be reduced in accordance with the Discount Range Proration, if any, and as otherwise determined in accordance with and subject to the requirements of the Credit Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Discount Range Prepayment Offer as of the date first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT G
Date: , 20
            
    
To: [], as Auction Agent
                                        
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice is delivered to you pursuant to Section 2(D) of Schedule 2.10 of that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""), among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each lender from time to time party thereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Agent
Banks
Bank
Pursuant to Section 2(D) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower hereby requests that [each Bank] [each Bank of the [, 20]
1
tranche[s] of the []
    
2
Loans] submit a Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer. Any Discounted Loan Prepayment made in connection with this solicitation shall be subject to the following terms:
1. This Borrower Solicitation of Discounted Prepayment Offers is extended at the sole discretion of the Borrower to [each Bank] [each Bank of the [, 20]
3
tranche[s] of the []
    
4
Loans].
2. The maximum aggregate amount of the Discounted Loan Prepayment that will be made in connection with this solicitation is (the ""):
Solicited Discounted Prepayment Amount
5
[Loans - $[]]
[[, 20]
6
tranche[s] of the []
    
7
Loans - $[]]
The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Auction Agent and [the Banks][each Bank of the [, 20]
8
tranche[s] of the []
    
9
Loans] that, as of the date hereof and as of the date of any Discounted Prepayment Effective Date with respect to this Specified Discount Prepayment Notice, the Borrower (a) does not possess any information with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or
 
 
the securities of any of them that (i) has not been disclosed by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Banks generally prior to each such date and (ii) could be "material" as such term is used in the United States Federal and state securities laws, and (b) was not directed to deliver this Solicited Discount Prepayment Notice in connection with a proposed Discounted Loan Prepayment by an Affiliate which had information of the type referred to in clause (a). The Borrower agrees that if on or prior to the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date with respect to this Solicited Discount Prepayment Notice this representation and warranty will not be true and correct, it shall promptly notify each Bank that was notified by the Auction Agent as being scheduled to receive a Discounted Loan Prepayment in connection with this Solicited Discount Prepayment Notice, and any such Bank may revoke its right to such Discounted Loan Prepayment within two Domestic Business Days of receiving such notification by the Borrower.
To make an offer in connection with this solicitation, you are required to deliver to the Auction Agent a Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer by no later than 5:00 p.m., New York time on the date that is the third Business Day following delivery of this notice pursuant to Section 2(D) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement.
The Borrower requests that the Auction Agent promptly notify each Bank party to the Credit Agreement of this Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice as of the date first above written.
 
Enclosure: Form of Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer
 
EXHIBIT H
Date: , 20
            
    
To: [Bank of America, N.A.], as Auction Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to (a) that Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""), among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each lender from time to time party thereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and (b) that certain Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice, dated , 20, from the applicable Borrower (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice or, to the extent not defined therein, in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Agent
Banks
Bank
            
    
Solicited Discounted Prepayment Notice
To accept the offer set forth herein, you must submit an Acceptance and Prepayment Notice by or before no later than 5:00 p.m. New York time on the third Business Day following your receipt of this notice.
The undersigned Bank hereby gives you irrevocable notice, pursuant to Section 2(D) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement, that it is hereby offering to accept a Discounted Loan Prepayment on the following terms:
1. This Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer is available only for prepayment on the [Loans][[, 20]
1
tranche[s] of the []
    
2
Loans] held by the undersigned.
2. The maximum aggregate principal amount of the Discounted Loan Prepayment that may be made in connection with this offer shall not exceed (the ""):
Offered Amount
[Loans - $[]]
[[, 20]
3
tranche[s] of the []
    
4
Loans - $[]]
 
 
3. The percentage discount to par value at which such Discounted Loan Prepayment may be made is [[]% in respect of the Loans] [[]% in respect of the [, 20]
5
tranche[(s)] of the []
    
6
Loans] (the "").
Offered Discount
The undersigned Bank hereby expressly and irrevocably consents and agrees to a prepayment of its [Loans] [[, 20]
7
tranche[s] of the []
    
8
Loans] pursuant to Section 2(D) or Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement at a price equal to the Acceptable Discount and in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed such Bank's Offered Amount as such amount may be reduced in accordance with the Solicited Discount Proration, if any, and as otherwise determined in accordance with and subject to the requirements of the Credit Agreement.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offer as of the date first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT I
Date: , 20
            
    
To: [Bank of America, N.A.], as Auction Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This Specified Discount Prepayment Notice is delivered to you pursuant to Section 2(B) of Schedule 2.10 of that Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""), among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each lender from time to time party thereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Agent
Banks
Bank
Pursuant to Section 2(B) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower hereby offers to make a Discounted Loan Prepayment [to each Bank] [to each Bank of the [, 20]
1
tranche[s] of the []
    
2
Loans] on the following terms:
1. This Borrower Offer of Specified Discount Prepayment is available only [to each Bank] [to each Bank of the [, 20]
3
tranche[s] of the []
    
4
Loans].
2. The aggregate principal amount of the Discounted Loan Prepayment that will be made in connection with this offer shall not exceed [$[] of Loans] [$[] of the [, 20]
5
tranche[(s)] of the []
    
6
Loans] (the "").
Specified Discount Prepayment Amount
7
3. The percentage discount to par value at which such Discounted Loan Prepayment will be made is [[]% in respect of the Loans] [[]% in respect of the [, 20]
8
tranche[(s)] of the []
    
9
Loans] (the "").
Specified Discount
To accept this offer, you are required to submit to the Auction Agent a Specified Discount Prepayment Response by no later than 5:00 p.m., New York time, on the date that is the third Business Day following the date of delivery of this notice pursuant to Section 2(B) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement.
 
 
The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Auction Agent and [the Banks][each Bank of the [, 20]
10
tranche[s] of the []
    
11
Loans] as follows:
1. [At least ten Business Days have passed since the consummation of the most recent Discounted Loan Prepayment as a result of a prepayment made by a Borrower on the applicable Discounted Prepayment Effective Date.][At least three Business Days have passed since the date the Borrower was notified that no Bank was willing to accept any prepayment of any Loan at the Specified Discount, within the Discount Range or at any discount to par value, as applicable, or in the case of Borrower Solicitation of Discounted Prepayment Offers, the date of any Borrower's election not to accept any Solicited Discounted Prepayment Offers made by a Bank.]
12
2. As of the date hereof and as of the date of any Discounted Prepayment Effective Date with respect to this Specified Discount Prepayment Notice, the Borrower (a) does not possess any information with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or the securities of any of them that (i) has not been disclosed by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Banks generally prior to each such date and (ii) could be "material" as such term is used in the United States Federal and state securities laws, and (b) was not directed to deliver this Specified Discount Prepayment Notice in connection with a proposed Discounted Loan Prepayment by an Affiliate which had information of the type referred to in clause (a). The Borrower agrees that if on or prior to the Discounted Prepayment Effective Date with respect to this Specified Discount Prepayment Notice this representation and warranty will not be true and correct, it shall promptly notify each Bank that was notified by the Auction Agent as being scheduled to receive a Discounted Loan Prepayment in connection with this Specified Discount Prepayment Notice, and any such Bank may revoke its right to such Discounted Loan Prepayment within two Domestic Business Days of receiving such notification by the Borrower.
The Borrower acknowledges that the Auction Agent and the relevant Banks are relying on the truth and accuracy of the foregoing representations and warranties in connection with their decision whether or not to accept the offer set forth in this Specified Discount Prepayment Notice and the acceptance of any prepayment made in connection with this Specified Discount Prepayment Notice.
The Borrower requests that the Auction Agent promptly notify each Bank party to the Credit Agreement of this Specified Discount Prepayment Notice.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Specified Discount Prepayment Notice as of the date first above written.
 
Enclosure: Form of Specified Discount Prepayment Response
 
EXHIBIT J
Date: , 20
            
    
To: [], as Auction Agent
                                        
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to (a) that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""), among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each lender from time to time party thereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and (b) that certain Specified Discount Prepayment Notice, dated , 20, from the applicable Borrower (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Specified Discount Prepayment Notice or, to the extent not defined therein, in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Agent
Banks
Bank
            
    
Specified Discount Prepayment Notice
The undersigned Bank hereby gives you irrevocable notice, pursuant to Section 2(B) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement, that it is willing to accept a prepayment of the following [Loans] [[, 20]
1
tranche[s] of the []
    
2
Loans - $[]] held by such Bank at the Specified Discount in an aggregate outstanding amount as follows:
[Loans - $[]]
[[, 20]
3
tranche[s] of the []
    
4
Loans - $[]]
The undersigned Bank hereby expressly and irrevocably consents and agrees to a prepayment of its [Loans][[, 20]
5
tranche[s] the []
    
6
Loans] pursuant to Section 2(B) of Schedule 2.10 of the Credit Agreement at a price equal to the [applicable] Specified Discount in the aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed the amount set forth above, as such amount may be reduced in accordance with the Specified Discount Proration, and as otherwise determined in accordance with and subject to the requirements of the Credit Agreement.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Specified Discount Prepayment Response as of the date first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT K
 
ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS REPLY FORM  US DOLLAR ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
 
 
 
II. Legal Name of Lender of Record for Signature Page:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Bank, Asset Manager, Broker/Dealer, CLO/CDO, Finance Company, Hedge Fund, Insurance, Mutual Fund, Pension Fund, Other Regulated Investment Fund, Special Purpose Vehicle, Other  please specify)
 
VI.
Contact Information:
Syndicate level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower and its related parties or their respective securities will be made available to the Credit Contact(s). The Credit Contacts identified must be able to receive such information in accordance with his/her institution's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and State securities laws.
 
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS REPLY FORM  US DOLLAR ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
 
 
VII. Lender's Standby Letter of Credit, Commercial Letter of Credit, and Bankers' Acceptance Fed Wire Payment Instructions (if applicable):
 
VIII. Lender's Fed Wire Payment Instructions:
 
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS REPLY FORM  US DOLLAR ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
 
 
IX. Organizational Structure and Tax Status
Please refer to the enclosed withholding tax instructions below and then complete this section accordingly:
Lender Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN):                                                                                               -
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
Tax Withholding Form Delivered to Bank of America*:
   W-9
                    
   W-8BEN
                    
   W-8ECI
                    
   W-8EXP
                    
   W-8IMY
                    
 
NONU.S. LENDER INSTITUTIONS
1. Corporations:
If your institution is incorporated outside of the United States for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and is the beneficial owner of the interest and other income it receives, you must complete one of the following three tax forms, as applicable to your institution: a.) Form W-8BEN (Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner), b.) Form W-8ECI (Income Effectively Connected to a U.S. Trade or Business), or c.) Form W-8EXP (Certificate of Foreign Government or Governmental Agency).
A U.S. taxpayer identification number is required for any institution submitting a Form W-8 ECI. It is also required on Form W-8BEN for certain institutions claiming the benefits of a tax treaty with the U.S. Please refer to the instructions when completing the form applicable to your institution. In addition, please be advised that U.S. tax regulations do not permit the acceptance of faxed forms.
An original tax form must be submitted.
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS REPLY FORM  US DOLLAR ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
 
 
2. Flow-Through Entities
If your institution is organized outside the U.S., and is classified for U.S. federal income tax purposes as either a Partnership, Trust, Qualified or Non-Qualified Intermediary, or other non-U.S. flow-through entity, an original Form W-8IMY (Certificate of Foreign Intermediary, Foreign Flow-Through Entity, or Certain U.S. branches for United States Tax Withholding) must be completed by the intermediary together with a withholding statement. Flow-through entities other than Qualified Intermediaries are required to include tax forms for each of the underlying beneficial owners.
Please refer to the instructions when completing this form. In addition, please be advised that U.S. tax regulations do not permit the acceptance of faxed forms.
Original tax form(s) must be submitted.
U.S. LENDER INSTITUTIONS:
If your institution is incorporated or organized within the United States, you must complete and return Form W-9 (Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification).
Please be advised that we require an original form W-9.
Pursuant to the language contained in the tax section of the Credit Agreement, the applicable tax form for your institution must be completed and returned on or prior to the date on which your institution becomes a lender under this Credit Agreement. Failure to provide the proper tax form when requested will subject your institution to U.S. tax withholding.
 
X. Bank of America Payment Instructions:
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT L
Dated as of [], 20[]
            
    
by and among The AES Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), AES International Holdings II, LTD., a British Virgin Islands company ( "" and collectively with the Borrower, the ""), [Union Bank of California, N.A.][Successor Collateral Trustee], not in its individual capacity but solely as a corporate trustee, as successor to Wilmington Trust Company, not in its individual capacity but solely as corporate trustee (the ""), [Vicki Elnick] [Successor Individual Trustee], an individual residing in the State of [Delaware], as successor to Bruce L. Bisson, not in her individual capacity but solely as individual trustee (the "") and [Citicorp USA, Inc.][Successor Agent], in its capacity as representative for the lender parties (the "").
AMENDMENT NO. [] TO THE COLLATERAL TRUST AGREEMENT
    
Borrower
AES International
Grantors
Corporate Trustee
Individual Trustee
Representative for the Lender Parties
PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS:
1. The Borrower, Corporate Trustee, the Individual Trustee, the Representative for the Lender Parties and certain other parties from time to time party thereto entered into a Collateral Trust Agreement dated as of December 12, 2002 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified through the date hereof, the ""). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Amendment have the same meanings as specified in the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Collateral Trust Agreement
2. The Borrower is party to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""), among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for the Bank Parties (the "") and each lender from time to time party thereto.
Term Loan Agreement
Agent
3. In connection with Section 5.16 of the Term Loan Agreement, the parties hereto have agreed to amend the Collateral Trust Agreement, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth herein.
. The Collateral Trust Agreement is, effective as of the date hereof and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2, hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to Collateral Trust Agreement
Section 1.01 of the Collateral Trust Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following definitions in their proper alphabetical order:
"" means, at any time, lenders under the Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement owed or holding at least a majority in interest of the aggregate principal amount (based in the case of any Revolving Letter of Credit (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) denominated in an Alternative Currency (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) other than U.S. dollars, or the Dollar Equivalent (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) at such time) of the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of the loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement at such time, (ii) the aggregate Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities Outstanding (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of
Majority First Lien Secured Holders
signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) at such time and (iii) the aggregate Revolving Credit Loan Commitments (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) at such time; that (A) the loans, Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities and Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) of any Defaulting Bank under the Credit Agreement or the Term Loan Agreement shall be disregarded in the determination of the Majority First Lien Secured Holders and (B) during the occurrence and continuance of any uncured or unwaived default or event of default under the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of determination) Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) shall not be included in the determination of Majority First Lien Secured Holders).
provided
"" means Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as "Agent" under the Term Loan Agreement, or any successor "Agent" appointed pursuant to the terms of the Term Loan Agreement.
Term Loan Agent
"" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2011, among the Borrower, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as agent and the other agents party thereto (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time).
Term Loan Agreement
"" means all times that the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of Revolving Credit Loans (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) outstanding at such time (ii) the aggregate amount of Revolving Letter of Credit Liabilities (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) outstanding at such time (iii) the aggregate amount of the Unused Revolving Credit Loan Commitments(as defined in the Credit Agreement (as in effect on the date of signing of the Term Loan Agreement)) at such time, is less than $300,000,000.
Term Loan Voting Period
plus
plus
The definition of "Collateral Trust Agreement Default" contained in Section 1.01 is hereby amended by:
inserting the following sentence at the end thereof:
"Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Term Loan Voting Period, references in this definition of "Collateral Trust Agreement Default" to (i) "Lender Party" shall mean each of the Lender Parties or the Agent and Lenders under the Term Loan Agreement and (ii) "Credit Agreement" shall mean the Credit Agreement or the Term Loan Agreement (other than with respect to the second instance of the term "Credit Agreement" contained therein)."
(ii) inserting the following phrase immediately following the phrase "Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement" included therein:
"or, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Term Loan Voting Period, an event of default described in clauses (a), (b), (d), (e) or (f) of the Term Loan Agreement".
The definition of "Credit Agreement Defaulted Party" contained in Section 1.01 is hereby amended by inserting the following sentence at the end thereof:
 
"Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Term Loan Voting Period, the term Credit Agreement Defaulted Party shall mean the Agent or the Term Loan Agent, in each case, acting on written instructions approved by the Majority First Lien Secured Holders; that (x) the Agent shall so act in the event that a majority of the Majority First Lien Secured Holders are Lenders under the Credit Agreement and (y) the Term Loan Agent shall so act in the event that a majority of the Majority First Lien Secured Holders are lenders under the Term Loan Agreement."
provided
The definition of "Required Representative(s)" contained in Section 1.01 is hereby amended by inserting the following sentence at the end thereof:
"Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Term Loan Voting Period, (i) references in the definition of Required Representative to (A) "Lender Party" shall mean each of the Lender Parties and the Agent and Lenders under the Term Loan Agreement, (B) "Credit Agreement" shall mean the Credit Agreement or the Term Loan Agreement and (C) "Required Banks" shall mean the Majority First Lien Secured Holders, and (ii) any action set forth herein to be taken by the Agent, when acting in its capacity as Required Representative hereunder, may be taken by the Agent or the Term Loan Agent, in each case, upon the written instructions approved by the Majority First Lien Secured Holders; that (x) the Agent shall so act in the event that a majority of the Majority First Lien Secured Holders are Lenders under the Credit Agreement and (y) the Term Loan Agent shall so act in the event that a majority of the Majority First Lien Secured Holders are lenders under the Term Loan Agreement."
provided
Section 4.01 of the Collateral Trust Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following sentence at the end thereof:
"Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Term Loan Voting Period, references to the "Credit Agreement" in this Section 4.01 shall mean the Credit Agreement or the Term Loan Agreement."
Section 5.01 is hereby amended by inserting a new subsection (e) immediately following subsection (d) thereof, as follows:
"(e) Any amounts to be paid to the Representative of the Bank Parties (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement) under the Term Loan Agreement pursuant to clause THIRD above shall be applied by the Collateral Trustees for the ratable benefit of the lenders against the Secured Obligations of the Secured Holders represented by the Term Loan Agent under the Term Loan Agreement as follows:
FIRST, paid to the Term Loan Agent for any amounts then owing to the Term Loan Agent pursuant to Section 10.04 of the Term Loan Agreement or otherwise under the Financing Documents, ratably in accordance with the amounts then owing to the Term Loan Agreement; and
SECOND, ratably paid to the Bank Parties (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement), for any amounts then owing to them under the Term Loan Agreement."
A new Article X shall be inserted immediately following the end of Article IX thereof, as follows:
 
The Term Loan Agent (as agent on behalf of the Banks (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement) and not individually) agrees to indemnify the Agent and hold the Agent harmless from and against, any and all liabilities, losses, claims, damages and related costs and expenses of any kind, which may be incurred by the Agent in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding brought or threatened relating to or arising out of any actions taken by the Agent at the direction of the Majority First Lien Secured Holders pursuant to the terms hereof; that the Agent shall not have the right to be indemnified hereunder for the Agent's own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. The Agent (as agent on behalf of the Lender Parties and not individually) agrees to indemnify the Term Loan Agent and hold the Term Loan Agent harmless from and against, any and all liabilities, losses, claims, damages and related costs and expenses of any kind, which may be incurred by the Term Loan Agent in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding brought or threatened relating to or arising out of any actions taken by the Term Loan Agent at the direction of the Majority First Lien Secured Holders pursuant to the terms hereof; that the Term Loan Agent shall not have the right to be indemnified hereunder for the Term Loan Agent's own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. In no event shall the Agent or the Term Loan Agent be liable (whether direct or indirect, in contract or tort or otherwise) to the Term Loan Agent or the Agent, respectively, or any of their respective affiliates, equityholders, directors, officers, agents or employees for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages relating to or arising out of any action taken by the Agent or the Term Loan Agent, respectively, at the direction of the Majority First Lien Secured Holders pursuant to the terms hereof.
provided
provided
. This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written when:
Conditions of Effectiveness
the Corporate Trustee shall have received counterparts of this Amendment executed by the Corporate Trustee, the Individual Trustee and each Representative existing on the date hereof. This Amendment is subject to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the Collateral Trust Agreement; and
the Corporate Trustee shall have received a certificate of an Authorized Officer of each Grantor to the effect that such supplemental agreement will not result in a breach of any provision or covenant contained in the Applicable Agreements.
. 3. On and after the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Collateral Trust Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof" or words of like import referring to the Collateral Trust Agreement, and each reference in each of the other Financing Documents to "the Collateral Trust Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the Collateral Trust Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Collateral Trust Agreement, as amended by this Amendment.
Reference to and Effect on the Collateral Trust Agreement
The terms of this Amendment shall be binding upon any successor to the Agent that may be appointed from time to time pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
The Collateral Trust Agreement, as specifically amended by this Amendment, is and shall continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.
 
The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under the any of the Financing Documents.
. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Amendment by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Execution in Counterparts
. This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 


