FILE:AES/AES-8K-20110228061246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 28, 2011, The AES Corporation ("AES") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 28, 2011, AES issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010 and updated its 2011 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency pricing, continued normal or better levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth from investments at investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") including but not limited to the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the AES Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as well as our other SEC filings. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Meghan Dotter 703 682 6670
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703 682 6451
Investor Contact:
AES Meets 2010 Guidance, Driven by Operating Improvements and Growth in Latin America and Asia; Issues 2011 Adjusted Earnings Per Share Guidance of $1.08-$1.14 Per Share
 
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported results for the full year 2010, which were driven by higher volumes and rates at its businesses in Latin America and Asia, as well as favorable foreign currency exchange rates. These contributions were offset by declines in commodity fuel prices at the Company's businesses in North America and Hungary, which resulted in impairment losses, that did not affect adjusted earnings per share.
ARLINGTON, Va, February 28, 2011 
"I am very pleased that we met our full year 2010 financial guidance across all metrics. Our businesses in Latin America experienced increased demand as a result of the continued regional economic recovery there, while the operational improvements we made in our generation business in the Philippines allowed us to satisfy higher demand. This helped offset the headwinds that our generation plants in North America and Hungary experienced due to fuel price pressure," said Paul Hanrahan, AES President and Chief Executive Officer. "Throughout the year we added 1,625 MW of generation capacity through acquisitions in Northern Ireland and China. In addition, we successfully completed 777 MW of construction projects in Asia, Europe and Latin America. These help set the stage for future platform growth in those regions. Similarly, we reached significant development milestones in Southeast Asia and India and closed the year by entering a partnership in Turkey with Ko Holding to pursue growth opportunities. The value of our investments in these regions was evident in our ability to attract financial partners like China Investment Corporation and POSCO in our 1,200 MW Mong Duong project in Vietnam."
 
"Reviewing our performance for 2010, we were also pleased with our efficiency initiatives, as well as the results of our disciplined capital allocation policy. As a result of the profitable sales of our Middle East businesses and increased operating cash flows, we were able to pay-down nearly $1 billion of Corporate debt and repurchased $99 million of stock. With valuable growth opportunities on the horizon in key locations like Turkey, Chile and Vietnam, we were also able to invest approximately $1 billion in construction and development projects. As a result, the balanced application of our capital allocation strategy remains on course," said Victoria D. Harker, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Table 1: Results for Fourth Quarter 2010, Full Year 2010
 
 
 
 
Key drivers of the Fourth Quarter results include (comparison of Q4 2010 vs. Q4 2009):
During the fourth quarter 2010, AES benefited from higher volumes in its Latin America generation segment and contributions from its Ballylumford plant in Northern Ireland, which was acquired in August 2010. Additionally, AES benefitted from a lower tax expense as a result of the impairments described below and the renewal of a favorable U.S. tax law. These benefits were offset by impairments that were primarily related to declining profit margins at several of the Company's merchant generation assets in North America. AES Eastern Energy, New York, recorded an impairment charge of $827 million, citing a decline in power prices relative to the price of coal, as well as potential state actions that impact capacity pricing in Western New York. AES Deepwater, Texas, recorded a $79 million impairment charge because of higher petroleum coke prices relative to energy prices. These non-cash expenses did not affect Gross Margin, Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) or any of the Cash Flow metrics listed below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q4 2010 as compared to Q4 2009
 
See Appendix for more detail.
Key drivers of the Full Year 2010 results include (comparison of Full Year 2010 vs. Full Year 2009):
During 2010, AES benefited from higher volumes at its generation and utility businesses in Latin America and higher volumes and rates at its generation business in the Philippines. Additionally, the Company benefited from favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in Brazil.
 
 
These benefits were offset by impairment losses at several of the Company's businesses in North America and Hungary due to commodity pricing pressures, lower rates at the Company's merchant generation facilities in North America and a higher share count.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Full Year 2010 as compared to Full Year 2009
 
See Appendix for more detail.
2011 Guidance
The Company provided guidance for 2011. When compared to 2010, guidance for 2011 benefited from (i) projected contributions from new businesses; (ii) year -over -year improvements in operations; and (iii) lower Parent interest expense due to debt pay down. These improvements were partially offset by (i) a higher tax expense; (ii) a higher share count; and (iii) unfavorable foreign exchange rates, primarily in Brazil. Cash flow metrics were impacted by certain items that benefitted 2010, but which are not expected to occur in 2011.
Table 4: Key Elements of 2011 Guidance vs. 2010 Actuals
 
For a complete list of 2011 guidance elements and reconciliations to GAAP, see Appendix.
 
 
Common Stock Repurchase Highlights
On July 7, 2010 the Company initiated a stock repurchase program of up to $500 million, which was subsequently extended on December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
Year-to-Date 2011 Highlights
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Operating Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Segment Information, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information, 2010 Financial Guidance and 2011 Financial Guidance.
 
 
Conference Call Information
AES will host a conference call on Monday, February 28, 2011 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST). Interested parties may listen to the teleconference by dialing 1-888-566-7708 at least ten minutes before the start of the call. International callers should dial +1-517-308-9025. The participant passcode for this call is 22811. Internet access to the presentation materials will be available at 8:00 a.m. EST on the AES website at www.aes.com by selecting "Investor Information" and then "Quarterly Financial Reports."
A telephonic replay of the call will be available from approximately 12:00 p.m. EST on Monday, February 28, 2011 through Monday, March 21, 2011. Callers in the U.S. please dial 1-800-627-0490. International callers should dial +1-203-369-3300. The system will ask for a passcode; please enter 22811. A webcast replay, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, will be accessible at www.aes.com beginning shortly after the completion of the call.
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 500 global power company with generation and distribution businesses. Through our diverse portfolio of thermal and renewable fuel sources, we provide affordable and sustainable energy to 28 countries. Our workforce of 29,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2010 revenues were $17 billion and we own and manage $41 billion in total assets. To learn more, please visit .
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated on or about February 25, 2011 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may be obtained by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2010 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(1)
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2011 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(
1)
 
 


