FILE:AES/AES-8K-20111006170834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New CEO General Compensation Arrangements
On September 30, 2011, The AES Corporation (the "Company" or "AES") approved new compensation arrangements for Andres Gluski, President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of AES. The new arrangements were approved in connection with Mr. Gluski's promotion to President and CEO which became effective on September 30, 2011. The Company disclosed Mr. Gluski's promotion in a Form 8-K filed on September 6, 2011.
The new compensation arrangements include the following changes:
 
 
In connection with the arrangements described above, the Company and Mr. Gluski mutually agreed to terminate his employment agreement.
Adoption of the Executive Severance Plan
On October 6, 2011, the Board approved an Executive Severance Plan (the "Plan") to provide severance benefits to certain senior executives designated by the Board (the "Participants") and pursuant to the terms of the Plan and applicable benefit schedule.
Pursuant to the Plan, if a Participant's employment is terminated by AES by reason of an Involuntary Termination (as defined in the Plan), the Participant will generally be entitled to the following severance benefits set forth in the Plan and the applicable benefit schedule:
 
 
 
 
 
In order to receive any severance benefits under the Plan, Participants must:
 
 
 
In the event a Participant is involuntarily terminated within two years of a "change in control" (as such terms are defined in the Plan), the Participant may receive the benefits and payments described above, and potentially additional severance payment and health benefits as set forth on the benefit schedule. The Plan allows for the payment of severance and other benefits in connection with a termination for Good Reason (as defined in the Plan) if such a termination event is included in the benefit schedule applicable to the Participant.
The Plan does not provide Participants with any change in control excise tax gross ups.
Participation of the President and CEO in the Plan
In addition to approving the Plan, the Board also designated the President and CEO as a Participant in the Plan and approved a benefit schedule applicable to him (the "CEO Benefit Schedule"). The CEO Benefit Schedule provides that if Mr. Gluski's employment is terminated by AES (other than for Cause, death or Disability (as such terms are defined in the Plan or the CEO Benefit Schedule)), or if he resigns for Good Reason, he will be entitled to the following:
 
 
 
 
The Plan also provides for severance payments upon Mr. Gluski's termination of employment due to Disability or death of: (i) earned base salary, (ii) a pro rata bonus for the year of termination, and (iii) in the case of Disability, payment of long-term disability benefits in accordance with the long-term disability program.
In order to receive any severance benefits under the Plan (other than death), Mr. Gluski must:
 
 
 
In addition, if, within two years of a change in control, Mr. Gluski is terminated other than for Cause, death or Disability, or terminates his employment for Good Reason, he will receive the payments described above, except the lump-sum payment will be equal to three times his annual base salary and target bonus and health benefit coverage will be for a period of up to 36-months from the employment termination date.
The CEO Benefit Schedule also provides that the Involuntary Termination and sale of business provisions of the Plan will not apply to Mr. Gluski.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 6, 2011


