FILE:AES/AES-8K-20110509060929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 9, 2011, The AES Corporation ("AES") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 9, 2011, AES issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency pricing, continued normal or better levels of operating performance and electricity demand at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth from investments at investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") including but not limited to the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, its Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011, as well as our other SEC filings. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Joel Abramson 703 682 6301
Media & Investor Contact:
AES Reports First Quarter 2011 Results of $0.22 Adjusted Earnings Per Share; Reaffirms Full Year Guidance
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported results for the first quarter of 2011. The Company's proportional gross margin was stable versus the first quarter of 2010. Strong performance in Latin America was offset by lower volumes in Asia and lower prices in Europe.
ARLINGTON, Va, May 9, 2011 
"Our adjusted earnings per share was in-line with our expectations for the quarter. We saw strong demand growth in Latin America, which partially offset the price declines in Europe, lower volumes in Asia and higher share count, all of which were anticipated. The 1,700 MW of new capacity coming on-line later this year will drive the stronger performance in the balance of the year, consistent with our full year guidance," said Paul Hanrahan, AES President and Chief Executive Officer.
"Our construction activity is going well, as we reached commercial operations on the first unit of our 518 MW Angamos coal-fired plant in Chile, on April 9
th
. Looking ahead, Maritza, our 670 MW coal-fired plant in Bulgaria and Changuinola, our 223 MW hydroelectric project under construction in Panama, are both scheduled to come on-line during 2011," added Mr. Hanrahan.
"Similarly, we are pleased with our ability to financially and operationally integrate new businesses quickly into our global portfolio. For example, this quarter we realized significant earnings benefit from Ballylumford in Northern Ireland, which was acquired during the third quarter of 2010. We look forward to applying these same integration capabilities to our recently announced acquisition of DPL Inc. later this year," said Victoria D. Harker, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
"We reached commercial operations on the first unit of our 518 MW Angamos coal-fired plant in Chile, on April 9
th
. Also, Maritza, our 670 MW coal-fired plant under construction in Bulgaria and Changuinola, our 223 MW hydroelectric project under construction in Panama, are both on schedule to be completed during 2011. These construction projects will add more than 1,400 MW of capacity this year," said Victoria D. Harker, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 
Table 1: Results for First Quarter 2011
 
 
Key drivers of the First Quarter results include (comparison of Q1 2011 vs. Q1 2010):
During the first quarter 2011, AES benefited from higher prices and volumes in its Latin America generation segment, particularly in Chile; increased demand at its Brazilian utilities; contributions from its Ballylumford plant in Northern Ireland which was acquired in August 2010; and favorable foreign exchange rates. These benefits were offset by higher fixed costs across several segments, unfavorable prices at Kilroot in Northern Ireland and at its Brazilian utilities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q1 2011 as compared to Q1 2010
 
See Appendix for more detail.
Year-To-Date Highlights
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Cash Flow From Operating Activities, Consolidated Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Segment Information, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information, 2011 Financial Guidance and 2012 Financial Guidance.
Conference Call Information
AES will host a conference call on Monday, May 9, 2011 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Interested parties may listen to the teleconference by dialing 1-800-857-6557 at least ten minutes before the start of the call. International callers should dial +1-415-228-4653. The
 
participant passcode for this call is 5911. Internet access to the presentation materials will be available at 9:00 a.m. EDT on the AES website at by selecting "Investor Information" and then "Quarterly Financial Reports."
www.aes.com
A telephonic replay of the call will be available from approximately 12:00 p.m. EDT on Monday, May 9, 2011 through Monday, May 30, 2011. Callers in the U.S. please dial 1-800-944-8789. International callers should dial +1-402-220-3521. The system will ask for a passcode; please enter 5911. A webcast replay, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, will be accessible at beginning shortly after the completion of the call.
www.aes.com
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 200 global power company with generation and distribution businesses. Through our diverse portfolio of thermal and renewable fuel sources, we provide affordable and sustainable energy to 28 countries. Our workforce of 29,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2010 revenues were $17 billion and we own and manage $41 billion in total assets. To learn more, please visit .
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated on or about February 25, 2011 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may be obtained by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2011 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(
1)
 
 
THE AES CORPORATION
2012 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE ELEMENTS
(
1)
 
 


