FILE:AES/AES-8K-20120420163608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 18, 2012, Samuel W. Bodman, III resigned from the Board of Directors (the "Board") of The AES Corporation (the "Company") effective immediately following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on April 19, 2012 (the "Annual Meeting"). In connection with the resignation, the Board approved a reduction in the size of the Board to eleven directors.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
On April 19, 2012, the Company held its Annual Meeting in Arlington, Virginia.
The results of the matters voted on at the Annual Meeting are provided below.
: The election of eleven directors to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the annual meeting in 2013 and until their respective successors are elected and qualified:
Proposal 1
 
There were no abstentions in Proposal 1.
: The ratification of Ernst & Young LLP as AES' Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for the year 2012.
Proposal 2
 
: The consideration of a (non-binding) advisory vote on executive compensation.
Proposal 3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


