FILE:AES/AES-8K-20120504071647.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 4, 2012, The AES Corporation ("AES" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 4, 2012, AES issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and updated its 2012 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Securities Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated on or about February 24, 2012 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may also be obtained by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1A
 
Rich Bulger 703-682-6318
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703-682-6451
Investor Contact:
AES Reports 54% Increase in Adjusted Earnings Per Share to $0.37 for First Quarter 2012
First Quarter 2012 Results
 
 
 
Other Significant Announcements
 
 
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported a 54% increase in Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) for the first quarter of 2012. New businesses in the United States, Europe and Latin America, higher volumes in Latin America and a one-time favorable arbitration settlement at Cartagena in Spain drove the results for the quarter. These trends were partially offset by decreased spot prices in Chile, the estimated impact of a delayed tariff reset at Eletropaulo in Brazil and the financing costs related to the acquisition of DP&L.
ARLINGTON, Va, May 4, 2012 
"We continue to execute on our plan to unlock shareholder value. Our strong first quarter puts us on track to meet our full year 2012 Adjusted EPS guidance, driven by the contributions from new businesses we commissioned or acquired in 2011. In addition, we completed the sales of Ironwood and Red Oak for $227 million in proceeds," said Andrs Gluski, AES President and Chief Executive Officer. "Looking forward, we are committed to delivering our three-year total return CAGR of 8% to 10% by 2015, and in support of that commitment, we increased the outstanding authorization for share repurchases from $122 million to $302 million."
"With asset sales proceeds and strong cash flow reported for the quarter, we have many levers available to us to achieve our total return target," said Victoria D. Harker, AES Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and President of Global Business Services. "In addition, we remain committed to initiating a dividend in the third quarter of this year, with the first payment expected in the fourth quarter."
 
Additional Highlights
 
 
 
2012 Guidance
The Company reaffirmed its full year 2012 guidance for Adjusted EPS and Cash Flow. Current guidance includes the impacts of first quarter trends, foreign exchange and commodity price assumptions as of March 30, 2012, and closed asset sales. As a result of higher working capital in Brazil, increased environmental capital expenditures in Chile and the sale of Red Oak and Ironwood, the Company now expects its cash flow metrics to come in at the low end of the guidance range. The Company revised its Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations guidance due to $0.06 of non-cash impairments in the first quarter of 2012.
Table 1: Key Elements of 2012 Guidance as of May 4, 2012
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Results for First Quarter 2012
 
 
Key drivers of First Quarter results include (comparison of Q1 2012 vs. Q1 2011):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q1 2012 as compared to Q1 2011
 
See Appendix for more detail and additional reconciliations for non-GAAP measures. Diluted weighted-average shares outstanding for non-GAAP measures: 785 million (2012) and 792 million (2011).
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Cash Flow From Operating Activities, Consolidated Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Segment Information, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information and 2012 Financial Guidance Elements.
Conference Call Information
AES will host a conference call on Friday, May 4, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Interested parties may listen to the teleconference by dialing 1-800-857-6557 at least ten minutes before the start of the call. International callers should dial +1-415-228-4653. The participant passcode for this call is 5412. Internet access to the presentation materials will be available on the AES website at by selecting "Investor Information" and then "Quarterly Financial Reports."
www.aes.com
A telephonic replay of the call will be available from approximately 12:00 p.m. EDT on Friday, May 4, 2012 through Friday, May 25, 2012. Callers in the U.S. please dial 1-866-456-9373. International callers should dial +1-203-369-1274. The system will ask for a passcode; please enter 5412. A webcast replay, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, will be accessible at beginning shortly after the completion of the call.
www.aes.com
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 200 global power company. We provide affordable, sustainable energy to 27 countries through our diverse portfolio of distribution businesses as well as thermal and renewable generation facilities. Our workforce of 27,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2011 revenues were $17 billion and we own and manage $45 billion in total assets. To learn more, please visit .
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include,
 
 
but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated on or about February 24, 2012 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may be obtained by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the quarter ended March 31, 2012, the Company refined its process for computing the tax effects of adjusted EPS items for interim periods. Accordingly, the Company has also reflected the refined process in the comparative three month period ended March 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


