FILE:AES/AES-8K-20120806060642.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 6, 2012, The AES Corporation ("AES" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On August 6, 2012, AES issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and updated its 2012 guidance. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated by reference herein. Such information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act and of the Securities Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated on or about February 24, 2012 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may also be obtained by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Rich Bulger 703-682-6318
Media Contact:
Ahmed Pasha 703-682-6451
Investor Contact:
AES Reports Adjusted Earnings Per Share of $0.18 for Second Quarter 2012 and $0.55 for First Half 2012; Reaffirms 2012 Earnings Per Share Guidance Range; Declares First Cash Dividend Since 1993
Second Quarter & First Half 2012 Results
 
 
 
Other Significant Announcements
 
 
 
 
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) today reported Adjusted Earnings Per Share (Adjusted EPS, a non-GAAP financial measure) of $0.18 for the second quarter of 2012 and $0.55 for the first half of 2012, in line with the Company's expectations. The second quarter results were driven by lower plant availability in Chile and the final impact of the July 2011 tariff reset at Eletropaulo in Brazil, partially offset by the contributions of new businesses in the United States, Bulgaria, and Latin America. In addition, unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates and a higher effective tax rate reduced results for the quarter.
ARLINGTON, Va, August 6, 2012 
"Despite facing some commodity and foreign exchange headwinds, we are taking all steps to meet our commitments and execute on our plan to unlock shareholder value," said Andrs Gluski, AES President and Chief Executive Officer. "We have repurchased more than 20 million shares since May 2012 and the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.04 per share, the Company's first cash dividend since 1993. We are exceeding our $50 million cost cutting target in 2012, with an expected savings of $65 million this year. In addition, we have announced or closed nine asset sales since September 2011, representing more than $930 million in proceeds at attractive valuations for shareholders."
 
"Our second quarter results, although below last year's levels, are broadly in line with our expectations. Our year-to-date results are on track, and accordingly, we are reaffirming our Adjusted EPS and Proportional Free Cash Flow guidance. During the second half of this year, our new businesses in the United States, Bulgaria and Latin America, cost cutting initiatives and results of our capital allocation strategy should result in earnings growth to meet our objectives for the year," said Mary Wood, AES Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Additional Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
2012 Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Results for Second Quarter & Year-to-Date 2012
 
 
 
Key drivers of Second Quarter results include (comparison of Q2 2012 vs. Q2 2011):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q2 2012 as compared to Q2 2011
 
See Appendix for more detail and additional reconciliations for non-GAAP measures. Diluted weighted-average shares outstanding for non-GAAP measures: 768 million (2012) and 787 million (2011).
Key drivers of Year-to-Date results include (comparison of Q2 YTD 2012 vs. Q2 YTD 2011):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS for Q2 YTD 2012 as compared to Q2 YTD 2011
 
 
 
See Appendix for more detail and additional reconciliations for non-GAAP measures. Diluted weighted-average shares outstanding for non-GAAP measures: 769 million (2012) and 790 million (2011).
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for definitions of Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Proportional Gross Margin, Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Adjusted Gross Margin, Proportional Cash Flow From Operating Activities, Consolidated Free Cash Flow, Proportional Free Cash Flow as well as reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Attachments
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Segment Information, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, Parent Financial Information and 2012 Financial Guidance Elements.
Conference Call Information
AES will host a conference call on Monday, August 6, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Interested parties may listen to the teleconference by dialing 1-800-857-6557 at least ten minutes before the start of the call. International callers should dial +1-415-228-4653. The participant passcode for this call is 8612. Internet access to the presentation materials will be available on the AES website at by selecting "Investor Information" and then "Quarterly Financial Reports."
www.aes.com
A telephonic replay of the call will be available from approximately 12:00 p.m. EDT on Monday, August 6, 2012 through Monday, August 27, 2012. Callers in the U.S. please dial 1-866-363-1808. International callers should dial +1-203-369-0196. The system will ask for a passcode; please enter 8612. A webcast replay, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, will be accessible at beginning shortly after the completion of the call.
www.aes.com
About AES
The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 200 global power company. We provide affordable, sustainable energy to 27 countries through our diverse portfolio of distribution businesses as well as thermal and renewable generation facilities. Our workforce of 27,000 people is committed to operational excellence and meeting the world's changing power needs. Our 2011 revenues were $17 billion and we own and manage $45 billion in total assets. To learn more, please visit .
www.aes.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related to future earnings, growth and financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results, but instead constitute AES' current expectations based on reasonable assumptions. Forecasted financial information is based on certain material assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, our accurate projections of future interest rates, commodity price and foreign currency pricing, continued normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at our distribution companies and operational performance at our generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as achievements of planned productivity improvements and incremental growth investments at normalized investment levels and rates of return consistent with prior experience.
 
 
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could affect actual results are discussed in AES' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" in AES' 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to read AES' filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with AES' business. AES undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated on or about February 24, 2012 with the SEC may obtain a copy (excluding Exhibits) without charge by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may be obtained by visiting the Company's website at .
www.aes.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We define adjusted earnings per share ("Adjusted EPS") as diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding gains or losses of the consolidated entity due to (a) mark-to-market amounts related to derivative transactions, (b) unrealized foreign currency gains or losses, (c) significant gains or losses due to dispositions and acquisitions of business interests, (d) significant losses due to impairments, and (e) costs due to the early retirement of debt. The GAAP measure most comparable to Adjusted EPS is diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. AES believes that Adjusted EPS better reflects the underlying business performance of the Company and is considered in the Company's internal evaluation of financial performance. Factors in this determination include the variability due to mark-to-market gains or losses related to derivative transactions, currency gains or losses, losses due to impairments and strategic decisions to dispose or acquire business interests or retire debt, which affect results in a given period or periods. Adjusted EPS should not be construed as an alternative to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, which is determined in accordance with GAAP.
Beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2012, the Company refined its process for computing the tax effects of Adjusted EPS items for interim periods. Accordingly, the Company has also reflected the refined process in the comparative three and six months ended June 30, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


