FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20041026141127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
ITEM 2.02
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 26, 2004 registrant issued a press release entitled "Halliburton Announces Third Quarter Results."
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
HOUSTON, Texas
- Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that third quarter 2004 income from continuing operations was $186 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.
Net loss for the quarter was $44 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, and included a net loss from discontinued operations primarily for the proposed asbestos and silica settlement of $230 million, or $0.51 per diluted share. The net loss from discontinued operations resulted primarily from the third quarter revaluation, due to the increase in Halliburton's stock price, of the 59.5 million shares of Halliburton common stock to be contributed to trusts for the benefit of asbestos and silica claimants.
Revenues were $4.8 billion in the third quarter 2004, up 16% from the third quarter 2003. This increase was largely attributable to higher activity on government services projects in the Middle East in the Engineering and Construction Group (known as KBR) and record quarterly revenues in the Energy Services Group (ESG).
The consolidated pretax operating income was $342 million in the third quarter 2004 compared to $204 million in the third quarter 2003. Impacting third quarter 2004 operating income was a $40 million gain related to the sale of ESG's Surface Well Testing operation and $18 million of charges related to the restructuring of KBR. Third quarter 2003 results included a $77 million charge related to the Anglo-Dutch litigation.
"ESG had record quarterly revenue, operating income, and operating margins," said Dave Lesar, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Halliburton. "We continue to see revenue growth and profit improvement in the energy services business. The rig count continues to increase, while our uplift in pricing, coupled with our focus on cost control, are providing stronger margins.
Also, I am pleased with the progress of KBR's recent actions. KBR has sailed the Barracuda and Belanak FPSO vessels, restructured its organization to take costs out of the business, and resolved issues with customers on a number of projects. These efforts should position KBR for profitability in future years."
2004 Third Quarter Segment Results
Energy Services Group
ESG posted third quarter 2004 revenues of $2.1 billion, a $303 million or 17% increase over the third quarter 2003, and operating income of $414 million, up $244 million or 144% from the same period in the prior year.
Production Optimization operating income for the third quarter 2004 was $222 million, a $104 million or 88% increase over third quarter 2003. The third quarter 2004 operating income included a $40 million gain on the sale of Surface Well Testing. Production enhancement services improved operating income $54 million largely from increased land rig activity, higher equipment utilization, and improved pricing in the United States. Operating income from completions and reservoir optimization product sales and services was the same as the prior year period. The third quarter 2004 included $12 million in equity income from the Subsea 7 joint venture compared with $5 million in equity income in the third quarter 2003.
Fluids operating income for the third quarter 2004 was $113 million, a $58 million or 106% increase over the third quarter 2003. The increase in operating income was primarily attributable to a $29 million increase in cementing services due to higher land drilling activity and improved pricing in North America. Drilling fluids increased $27 million on a 19% increase in revenues and the benefits of cost reduction initiatives in the Gulf of Mexico.
Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income of $62 million was up $17 million or 38% over the prior year third quarter partially due to a change in accounting estimate to extend the useful life of directional drilling and logging-while-drilling tools. Drill bits operating income increased $3 million on an 8% increase in revenue, with a significant improvement in operating margins. Logging services operating income increased $3 million year-over-year on higher United States land rig counts and improvement in pricing.
Landmark and Other Energy Services third quarter 2004 operating income was $17 million, compared to a $48 million operating loss for the prior year period. Third quarter 2003 results included a $77 million charge related to the Anglo-Dutch litigation. Landmark Graphics achieved 3% growth in revenues over the prior year period due primarily to increased software sales in Mexico.
KBR
KBR revenues for the third quarter 2004 were $2.7 billion, a 15% increase over the third quarter 2003. The increase was due to government contract activities, primarily in the Middle East.
KBR operating loss for the third quarter 2004 was $50 million, compared to operating income of $49 million in the third quarter 2003. The third quarter 2004 operating loss included $70 million of project losses on a gas processing plant in Algeria, the Belanak FPSO project, and a toll road project in the United Kingdom; $18 million of charges related to the restructuring of KBR; and lower results on government services projects due to the winding down of the RIO project and higher indirect costs related to the installation of KBR's new SAP general accounting system.
KBR backlog at September 30, 2004 was $9.3 billion, up nearly $500 million from June 30, 2004, primarily due to a new LNG train award in Nigeria and new operation and maintenance projects. Approximately 23% of the backlog was for fixed-fee contracts.
Halliburton's Iraq-related work contributed approximately $1.4 billion in revenues in the third quarter 2004 and $4 million of operating income before corporate costs and taxes.
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton had a number of advances in technology and new contract awards.
Energy Services Group new technologies and contracts:
KBR new contract awards:
Halliburton, founded in 1919, is one of the world's largest providers of products and services to the petroleum and energy industries. The company serves its customers with a broad range of products and services through its Energy Services and Engineering and Construction Groups. The company's World Wide Web site can be accessed at
www.halliburton.com
.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: legal risks, including the risks of being unable to complete the proposed settlement of asbestos and silica liabilities, the risks of having material subsidiaries in Chapter 11 proceedings, the risks of audits and investigations of the company by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and potent ial adverse proceedings and findings by such agencies, the risks of judgments against the company's subsidiaries and predecessors in asbestos litigation pending and currently on appeal, the inability of insurers for asbestos exposures to pay claims or a delay in the payment of such claims, future asbestos claims defense and settlement costs, the risks of judgments against the company and its subsidiaries in other litigation and proceedings, including shareholder lawsuits, securities laws inquiries, contract disputes, patent infringements and environmental matters, legislation, changes in government regulations and adverse reaction to scrutiny involving the company; political risks, including the risks of unsettled political conditions, war and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations and foreign exchange rates and controls; liquidity risks, including the risks of potential reductions in debt ratings, access to credit, availability and costs of financing and ability to raise capital; weather-related risks ; customer risks, including the risks of changes in capital spending and claims negotiations; industry risks, including the risks of changes that affect the demand for or price of oil and/or gas, structural changes in the industries in which the company operates, risks of fixed-fee projects and risks of complex business arrangements; systems risks, including the risks of successful development and installation of financial systems; and personnel and merger/reorganization/disposition risks, including the risks of increased competition for employees, successful integration of acquired businesses, effective restructuring efforts and successful completion of planned dispositions. Please see Halliburton's Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2003 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 for a more complete discussion of such risk factors.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
(2)
The decrease in "Insurance for asbestos- and silica-related liabilities" reflects the reclassification of $500 million from noncurrent to current in the first quarter of 2004; reclassification of $379 million from noncurrent to current in the second quarter of 2004; and a $680 million write-down in the second quarter of 2004 resulting from settlement agreements with insurance carriers.
 
 
See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Footnotes for Table 3:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


