FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20050201113942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
ITEM 2.02
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 28, 2005 registrant issued a press release entitled "Halliburton Announces Fourth Quarter Results."
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
HOUSTON, Texas
- Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that fourth quarter 2004 income from continuing operations was $183 million, or $0.41 per diluted share.
Net loss for the quarter was $201 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, and included a loss from discontinued operations of $384 million, or $0.86 per diluted share. The loss from discontinued operations resulted primarily from the fourth quarter revaluation charge arising from the increase in the value of the 59.5 million shares of Halliburton common stock that have subsequently been contributed to the trust for the benefit of asbestos claimants.
Consolidated revenue was $5.2 billion in the fourth quarter 2004, down 5% from the fourth quarter 2003. This decrease was largely attributable to lower activity on government services projects in the Middle East in KBR, and was partially offset by record quarterly revenue in the Energy Services Group (ESG).
Consolidated operating income was $349 million in the fourth quarter 2004 compared to $303 million in the fourth quarter 2003. Impacting fourth quarter 2004 operating income was a $33 million loss for two integrated solutions projects in southern Mexico, a $22 million charge, as previously announced, related to the restructuring of KBR, a $14 million gain related to the sale of ESG's surface well testing (SWT) operations, and an $11 million charge for an intellectual property settlement related to the sale of Subsea 7.
"The fourth quarter was a busy and important one for the future of Halliburton," said Dave Lesar, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Halliburton. "We ended our asbestos exposure. We completed the restructuring of KBR into two business segments, and achieved significant milestones on each of our three remaining offshore lump sum construction contracts, which significantly reduces our risk exposure on these projects. Our ESG operation had a record quarter for revenue and the highest fourth quarter margin ever. We achieved a 17.1% margin, even after recording the charges for the integrated solutions projects, the intellectual property settlement, and the gain on sale of SWT, which in aggregate decreased the margin by 1.4 percentage points.
For the year 2004, we established new records in revenue and operating income for three of the four ESG segments. For the fourth quarter, the total ESG group achieved record revenue that was driven by our Production Optimization and Drilling and Formation Evaluation segments. We were especially pleased to see fourth quarter revenue grow by three percent over the third quarter, which historically has been our highest quarter of the year. This supports our view that prices and demand for our services continue to increase. Our customers are expected to continue to increase their spending, which will allow for a strong market for our services to continue through 2005 and beyond. We also believe that KBR is now positioned for profitability."
2004 Fourth Quarter Segment Results
Energy Services Group
ESG posted fourth quarter 2004 revenue of $2.2 billion, a $371 million or 21% increase over the fourth quarter 2003, and operating income of $370 million, up $129 million or 54% from the same period in the prior year.
Production Optimization operating income for the fourth quarter 2004 was $209 million, an increase of $94 million, including an additional gain of $14 million in the fourth quarter 2004 on the sale of the SWT operations. A portion of the gain on the sale of SWT operations had not been recognized in the third quarter as a result of ESG's continuing involvement with portions of the operations in certain countries. Production enhancement services improved operating income by $54 million, driven by increased land rig activity, higher equipment utilization, and improved pricing in the United States. WellDynamics posted record revenue and operating income in the quarter with significant sales of its SmartWell intelligent completion technology in the Middle East. Equity income from Subsea 7 increased $20 mil lion, as fourth quarter 2003 was negatively impacted by project losses and lower vessel utilization.
Fluids operating income for the fourth quarter 2004 was $102 million, a $29 million or 40% increase over the fourth quarter 2003. This increase was partially attributable to a $19 million increase in cementing services operating income primarily due to higher land drilling activity and improved pricing in the United States marketplace. Drilling fluids services operating income increased $11 million on strong United States land activity and improved results in Western Europe.
Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income of $59 million was up $42 million over the prior year fourth quarter. This increase was primarily due to increased activity in the North Sea, Asia Pacific, and United States land; and cost reductions in the Gulf of Mexico. Also contributing to the improved operating income were decreased costs of $6 million from the 2003 drill bit plant consolidation. Drilling services benefited from lower depreciation expense in the fourth quarter 2004, compared to fourth quarter 2003 due to extending the useful life of drilling tools in the second quarter 2004.
Digital and Consulting Solutions, formerly Landmark and Other Energy Services, operating income for the fourth quarter 2004 was breakeven, compared to $36 million
operating income in the fourth quarter 2003. Landmark Graphics achieved record
revenue and operating income for the quarter. Revenue grew 16% and operating income was up 19% over the prior year. The fourth quarter 2004 results included a $33 million charge for two integrated solutions projects in southern Mexico. The fixed price contracts were awarded to the Company in the second quarter of 2004 and involve drilling 33 turnkey wells over a two year period. The charge reflects the estimated total project loss through completion that resulted from higher start-up expenses, increased costs to complete the projects, and longer drilling times than originally anticipated. Segment results also included an $11 million charge for an intellectual property settlement. This settlement was necessary to complete the sale of Subsea 7 in January 2005.
KBR
KBR revenue for the fourth quarter 2004 was $3.0 billion, a 17% decrease compared to fourth quarter 2003. The decrease was due to reduced government contract activities, primarily in the Middle East and project completions in the Energy and Chemicals segment.
KBR operating income for the fourth quarter 2004 was breakeven, compared to operating income of $82 million in the fourth quarter 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2004, a total charge of $22 million was recorded as a result of restructuring KBR into two segments: Energy and Chemicals, and Government and Infrastructure. When the restructuring plan for KBR was announced in September, the annual savings from the plan were projected to be between $80 million and $100 million. As of today, the estimated annual savings from the restructuring plan are expected to meet or exceed the upper end of this range in 2005.
Energy and Chemicals operating loss was $9 million in the fourth quarter 2004, compared to $15 million operating income in the fourth quarter 2003. Included in fourth quarter 2004 results was a $14 million restructuring charge. The fourth quarter 2004 results were also negatively impacted by charges totaling $21 million for additional costs on offshore hookup of the Belanak FPSO project and a settlement on a completed mining project in the United States.
Government and Infrastructure operating income was $9 million in the fourth quarter 2004 compared to $69 million operating income in the fourth quarter 2003. Included in fourth quarter 2004 results was an $8 million restructuring charge. Operating income from Iraq activities was $20 million lower than the fourth quarter 2003, primarily due to completion of the RIO contract. The decrease in operating income reflected a loss on a construction project in Afghanistan in the fourth quarter 2004 and the completion of a railway project in Australia in 2003, and was partially offset by improved results at the DML shipyard in the United Kingdom.
KBR backlog at December 31, 2004 was $8.4 billion, down approximately $900 million
from September 30, 2004. Approximately 25% of the backlog is for fixed-fee contracts. 
Of the total backlog, $3.6 billion is for Energy and Chemicals projects and $4.8 billion is
for Government and Infrastructure projects.
Halliburton's Iraq-related work contributed approximately $1.7 billion in revenue in the
fourth quarter 2004 and $13 million of operating income, or a 0.8% margin.
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton had a number of advances in technology and new contract awards.
Energy Services Group new technologies and contracts:
 
KBR new contract awards:
project. The project is a grassroots LNG facility to be located on Barrow Island in Western Australia.
Halliburton, founded in 1919, is one of the world's largest providers of products and services to the petroleum and energy industries. The company serves its customers with a broad range of products and services through its Energy Services and Engineering and Construction Groups. The company's World Wide Web site can be accessed at
www.halliburton.com
.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: legal risks, including the risks of audits and investigations of the company by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and potential adverse proceedings and findings by such agencies, a delay in the receipt of additional agreed payments from insurers arising from asbestos and silica clai ms, the risks of judgments against the company and its subsidiaries in litigation and proceedings, including shareholder lawsuits, securities laws inquiries, contract disputes, patent infringements and environmental matters, legislation, changes in government regulations and adverse reaction to scrutiny involving the company; political risks, including the risks of unsettled political conditions, war and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations and foreign exchange rates and controls; liquidity risks, including the risks of potential reductions in debt ratings, access to credit, availability and costs of financing and ability to raise capital; weather-related risks; customer risks, including the risks of changes in capital spending and claims negotiations; industry risks, including the risks of changes that affect the demand for or price of oil and/or gas, structural changes in the industries in which the company operates, risks of fixed-fee projects and risks of
complex business arrangements; systems risks, including the risks of successful development and installation of financial systems; and personnel and merger/reorganization/disposition risks, including the risks of increased competition for employees, successful integration of acquired businesses, effective restructuring efforts and successful completion of planned dispositions. Please see Halliburton's Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2003 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 for a more complete discussion of such risk factors.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
(1)
The change in "Insurance for asbestos- and silica-related liabilities" from December 31, 2003 reflects the reclassifications from noncurrent to current based on the amount of cash we expect to receive from insurance carriers within a year; and a $680 million write-down in the second quarter of 2004 resulting from settlement agreements with insurance carriers.
 
(2)
The decrease in "Asbestos- and silica-related liabilities" and the increase in "Shareholders' equity" reflect the reclassification of the 59.5 million shares of Halliburton common stock to be contributed to trusts for the benefit of asbestos and silica claimants upon the December 31, 2004 final and nonappealable confirmation of our plan of reorganization. The value of the shares was increased by $342 million on December 31, 2004, based on the closing price of $39.24 on that day, resulting in a total reclassification of $2.335 billion to shareholders' equity.
  &nbs p;
See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


