FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20050301193441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
Item 2.02 and Item 8.01.
  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Other Events.
On March 1, 2005 registrant issued a press release entitled "Halliburton Revises Fourth Quarter Pre-Tax Earnings Downward by $3 Million."
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
 
 
HOUSTON, Texas - Halliburton (NYSE: HAL) announced today that it will make two adjustments to the previously announced fourth quarter 2004 earnings that were released on January 28, 2005. The net impact of these adjustments is $3 million pre-tax expense, or $0.004 per share.
The adjustments, detailed in the attached financial tables, are attributed to (1) a collection of a $10 million receivable in February 2005 that was previously reserved and (2) a correction of the accounting treatment for leasehold improvements. As a result of a February 7, 2005 clarification by the Chief Accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission on lease accounting, the Company has adjusted its method for amortization of leasehold improvements and recorded a pre-tax expense of $13 million for increased depreciation, depletion and amortization. Management has determined that the impact of this matter on prior periods is immaterial. In connection with this clarification by the Chief Accountant, a large number of public companies have announced adjustments to their financial statements relating to lease account ing.
Halliburton, founded in 1919, is one of the world's largest providers of products and services to the petroleum and energy industries. The company serves its customers with a broad range of products and services through its Energy Services and Engineering and Construction Groups. The company's World Wide Web site can be accessed at www.halliburton.com.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: legal risks, including the risks of audits and investigations of the company by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and potential adverse proceedings and findings by such agencies, a delay in the receipt of additional agreed payments from insurers arising from asbestos and silica claims, the risks of judgments against the company and its subsidiaries in litigation and proceedings, including shareholder lawsuits, securities laws inquiries, contract disputes, patent infringements and environmental matters, legislation, changes in government regulations and adverse reaction to scrutiny involving the company; political risks, including the risks of unsettled political conditions, war and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations and foreign exchange rates and controls; liquidity risks, including the risks of potential reductions in debt ratings, access to credit, availability and
costs of financing and ability to raise capital; weather-related risks; customer risks, including the risks of changes in capital spending and claims negotiations; industry risks, including the risks of changes that affect the demand for or price of oil and/or gas, structural changes in the industries in which the company operates, risk s of fixed-fee projects and risks of complex business arrangements; systems risks, including the risks of successful development and installation of financial systems; and personnel and merger/reorganization/disposition risks, including the risks of increased competition for employees, successful integration of acquired businesses, effective restructuring efforts and successful completion of planned dispositions. Please see Halliburton's Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2003 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 for a more complete discussion of such risk factors.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


