FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20051219104254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
Item 3.03.
 
Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
 
On December 15, 2005, the Final Expiration Date occurred under the Restated Rights Agreement between Halliburton Company and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services L.L.C. dated as of December 1, 1996.
On September 8, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted the following policy statement effective upon the termination of the Rights Agreement at the close of business on December 15, 2005:
 
The Company does not have a poison pill or stockholder rights plan.
 
If the Company were to adopt a stockholder rights plan, the Board would seek prior stockholder approval of the plan unless, due to timing constraints or other reasons, a majority of independent directors of the Board determines that it would be in the best interests of stockholders for the Board to adopt a plan before obtaining stockholder approval.
 
If a stockholder rights plan is adopted without prior stockholder approval, the plan must either be ratified by stockholders or must expire, without being renewed or replaced, within one year.
 
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall review this policy statement periodically and report to the Board on any recommendations it may have concerning the policy.
 
Item 5.03
.
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change
 
in Fiscal Year.
 
As a consequence of the expiration of the Rights Agreement, as described above under Item 3.03, the Company on December 19, 2005 filed a Certificate of Elimination with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware effecting the elimination of the Certificate of Designation, Rights and Preferences with respect to the Companys Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
 
Item 9.01
.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
(c)
 
Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
The undersigned, Margaret E. Carriere, does hereby certify that:
 
 
1.
 
The undersigned is the duly elected and acting Senior Vice President and Secretary of Halliburton Company, a Delaware corporation (the Company).
 
 
2.
 
Pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, on September 8, 2005 the Board of Directors of the Company adopted the following resolutions by a unanimous vote, which resolutions relate to the previously-issued dividend of one right (each, a Right and collectively, the Rights) in respect of each share of Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share, of the Company to purchase shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company (Series A Preferred Stock) pursuant to a Rights Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1996 (the Rights Agreement), between the Company and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services L.L.C., each such Right representing the right to purchase one two-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Rights Agreement:
 
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it would be desirable and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to eliminate the Series A Preferred Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Rights
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT:
 
RESOLVED, that the Company be, and hereby is, authorized and directed to file with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a certificate containing these resolutions, with the effect under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware of eliminating from the Certificate of Incorporation of this Company all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designation with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock; and be it further
 
RESOLVED, that the Authorized Officers of the Corporation be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed for and on behalf of the Company, to execute and deliver any and all certificates, agreements, instruments and other documents, and to take any and all steps and do any and all things which they may deem necessary or advisable in order to effectuate the purposes of each and all of the foregoing resolutions; and be it further
 
 
RESOLVED, that the Authorized Officers for purposes of these resolutions shall be the Executive Vice President and General Counsel, the Senior Vice President and Secretary and the Assistant Secretary and Assistant General Counsel of the Company.
 
 
3.
  
I further declare under penalty of perjury that the matters set forth in this Certificate
are true and correct of my own knowledge.
 
This Certificate was executed in Houston, Texas on December 16, 2005.
 
 
HALLIBURTON COMPANY
By:
 
/s/ Margaret E. Carriere
Name: Margaret E. Carriere
Title: Senior Vice President and Secretary


