FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20050727112228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
ITEM 2.02
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 21, 2005 registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces Second Quarter Results.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
HOUSTON, Texas
- Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that second quarter of 2005 income from continuing operations was $391 million or $0.76 per diluted share. This compares to a loss from continuing operations of $58 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2004, which included a $200 million after-tax loss from the Barracuda-Caratinga offshore engineering, procurement, installation, and commissioning (EPIC) project.
Consolidated revenue in the second quarter of 2005 was $5.2 billion, up 4% from the second quarter of 2004. This increase was largely attributable to higher activity in the Energy Services Group (ESG), approximately half of which was derived from international growth. This was partially offset by lower revenue in KBR on government services projects in the Middle East as well as a reduction in work on offshore EPIC and other oil and gas projects nearing completion in the Energy and Chemicals segment.
Consolidated operating income was $607 million in the second quarter of 2005 compared to a loss of $26 million in the second quarter of 2004. ESG experienced strong performance reflecting increased customer exploration and production spending, higher utilization of assets, and increased pricing. KBR received favorable award fees from its government services work in the Middle East and experienced improved project performance in the Energy and Chemicals segment. The second quarter of 2004 operating loss included a $310 million pretax charge on the Barracuda-Caratinga project.
We are extremely pleased with our second quarter performance, both for ESG and KBR, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Halliburton. ESG posted a 44% incremental margin over the second quarter of 2004 on strong international growth. KBR continues to improve earnings, build backlog, and make progress in resolving government contract issues.
Halliburton/Page 2
2005 Second Quarter Segment Results
Energy Services Group
ESG posted second quarter of 2005 revenue of $2.5 billion, a $567 million or 30% increase over the second quarter of 2004, and operating income of $522 million, up $251 million or 93% from the same period in the prior year.
Production Optimization operating income for the second quarter of 2005 was $245 million, an increase of $124 million or 102% over the second quarter of 2004. Production enhancement services operating income increased 110%, primarily on increased demand for well stimulation services for natural gas applications, increased utilization of crews and assets, and improved pricing in the United States. West Africa and the North Sea also posted strong results. Completion tools operating income increased 49%, and operating margins increased by over four percentage points due to a change in mix to higher margin product sales and manufacturing efficiencies.
 
Fluid Systems operating income for the second quarter of 2005 was $135 million, a $58 million or 75% increase over the second quarter of 2004. Cementing services operating income increased 74% due to higher global drilling activity and improved pricing and asset utilization in the United States. Baroid Fluid Services operating income increased 78% on improved performance in Africa, increased deepwater work in the Gulf of Mexico, and strong growth in higher margin completion fluids and surface solutions product lines.
Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income was $126 million, a $67 million or 114% increase over the prior year second quarter. All regions showed earnings growth, with international operations driving 76% of the increase. Sperry Drilling Services operating income increased 116%, benefiting from improved operating results in West Africa and increased activity in the United States and the North Sea. Logging services operating income increased 83% due to improvement in the United States and West Africa and strong growth in the Middle East. Security DBS drill bits operating income tripled reflecting efficiencies related to facility consolidations, higher activity, and the continued strength of fixed cutter bit volumes.
Digital and Consulting Solutions second quarter of 2005 operating income was $16 million, a $2 million or 14% increase as compared to the prior year period. Landmarks operating income increased by $14 million, primarily driven by higher revenue across all regions. The increase was offset by a $15 million charge for two integrated solutions projects in southern Mexico.
Halliburton/Page 3
KBR
KBR revenue for the second quarter of 2005 was $2.7 billion, a 12% decrease compared to the second quarter of 2004. Operating income for the second quarter of 2005 was $122 million compared to an operating loss of $277 million in the second quarter of 2004.
Government and Infrastructure (G&I) operating income for the second quarter of 2005 was $73 million compared to $19 million in the second quarter of 2004, a 284% increase. The increase primarily resulted from positive developments related to LogCAP award fees. G&I continues to receive favorable job performance ratings for its work supporting the troops in Iraq. As a result, G&I recognized $29 million of income for recent awards on completed work, and increased the award fee accrual rate for its ongoing work under the LogCAP contract from 50% to 72% during the quarter. G&I also realized improved performance at the DML shipyard, partially offset by the completion of the RIO contract in Iraq.
Energy and Chemicals (E&C) operating income totaled $49 million in the second quarter of 2005 compared to a $296 million loss in the second quarter of 2004. Contributing to this increase was strong performance in engineering and project management projects in Angola and the Caspian and income from recently awarded liquefied natural gas (LNG) and gas-to-liquids (GTL) projects. Included in the second quarter of 2004 was a pretax loss of $310 million on the Barracuda-Caratinga project in Brazil.
Halliburtons Iraq-related work contributed approximately $1.4 billion in revenue in the second quarter of 2005 and $48 million of operating income, or a 3.4% margin.
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton had a number of advances in technology and new contract awards.
Energy Services Group new technologies and contract awards:
Halliburton/Page 4
 
Halliburton/Page 5
KBR new contract awards:
 
 
Halliburton/Page 6
Halliburton, founded in 1919, is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the petroleum and energy industries. The company serves its customers with a broad range of products and services through its Energy Services Group and KBR. The companys World Wide Web site can be accessed at
www.halliburton.com
.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: legal risks, including the risks of audits and investigations of the company by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and potential adverse proceedings and findings by such agencies, the risks of judgments against the company and its subsidiaries in litigation and proceedings, including contract disputes, intellectual property rights, environmental matters, legislation, changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to radioactive sources, explosives and chemicals; risks related to income taxes; political risks, including the risks of unsettled political conditions, war and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations and foreign exchange rates and controls; weather-related risks; customer risks, including the risks of changes in capital spending and claims negotiations; industry risks, including the risks of changes that affect the demand for or price of oil and/or gas, structural changes in the industries in which the company operates, risks of fixed-fee projects, and risks of complex business arrangements; systems risks, including the risks of successful development and installation of financial systems; and personnel and merger/reorganization/disposition risks, including the risks of increased competition for employees, successful integration of acquired businesses, effective restructuring efforts, and successful completion of planned dispositions. Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2005, recent Current Reports on Forms 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect the business, results of operations and financial condition. Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
Note - Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to be consistent with the current presentation.
 
 
Note - Region results for Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) have been reclassified from Middle East/Asia into Europe/Africa/CIS. All prior period amounts have been restated.
See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 and March 31, 2005, and for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


