FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20051026104635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
On October 24, 2005 registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces Third Quarter Results.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
HOUSTON, Texas
- Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that both income from continuing operations and net income in the third quarter of 2005 were $499 million, or $0.95 per diluted share. This compares to income from continuing operations of $186 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2004. Net loss for the third quarter of 2004 of $44 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, included a net loss from discontinued operations of $230 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, related to the asbestos and silica settlement.
Consolidated revenue in the third quarter of 2005 was $5.1 billion, up 6% from the third quarter of 2004. This increase was largely attributable to higher activity in the Energy Services Group (ESG). This was partially offset by lower revenue in KBR on government services projects in the Middle East, as well as offshore construction and other projects nearing completion in the Energy and Chemicals (E&C) segment.
Consolidated operating income was $690 million in the third quarter of 2005 compared to $342 million in the third quarter of 2004. ESG experienced strong performance reflecting increased rig activity, higher utilization of assets, and increased pricing. Operating income in the third quarter of 2004 was positively impacted by a $40 million gain related to the sale of ESGs surface well testing operations. KBRs performance improved in both the Government and Infrastructure (G&I) segment and the E&C segment. G&I results included $85 million of operating income related to the sale of KBRs interest in a toll road. The consolidated negative impact of the hurricanes on Halliburton in the third quarter of 2005 was approximately $33 million pretax income, or $0.05 per diluted share after tax.
We are pleased with the third quarter performance of the ESG and KBR, as both are maintaining the momentum of the strong earnings we experienced in the first half of the year, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Halliburton. Continued strength in the North American natural gas drilling market contributed to this growth. Despite the impact of the hurricanes, ESG posted record revenue and operating income for the quarter and increased operating margins to 21.8%, up from 21.1% in the second quarter of 2005. KBRs continued strong financial performance and recent gas monetization contract wins give us a competitive edge in a growing arena where we are already well positioned.
 
2005 Third Quarter Segment Results
Energy Services Group
ESG posted record revenue of $2.6 billion in the third quarter of 2005, a $489 million or 23% increase over the third quarter of 2004. ESG also posted record operating income of $566 million, up $152 million or 37% from the same period in the prior year. The negative impact on ESGs results from hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico during the third quarter of 2005 was approximately $28 million of pretax income, or $0.04 per diluted share after tax, primarily due to the temporary suspension of work related to damaged and lost customer rigs. The negative impact from hurricanes in the third quarter of 2004 was approximately $6 million of pretax income, or $0.01 per diluted share after tax. ESGs operating margin was 21.8% during the third quarter of 2005, despite the impact of the hurricanes.
Production Optimization operating income for the third quarter of 2005 was $263 million, an increase of $41 million or 19% over the third quarter of 2004. Production enhancement services operating income increased 67%, driven by strong demand for well stimulation services in natural gas applications, increased utilization of crews and assets, and improved pricing in the United States. Completion tools operating income increased 7% due to higher rig activity in Saudi Arabia. Partially offsetting this increase were declines in activity in Mexico and Venezuela. WellDynamics operating income for the third quarter of 2005 improved over the prior year quarter due to manufacturing efficiencies and strong sales of its SmartWell technology. Hurricanes negatively impacted Production Optimization operating income by approximately $8 million in the third quarter of 2005. Operating income in the third quarter of 2004 included a $40 million gain on the sale of surface well testing operations.
 
Fluid Systems operating income for the third quarter of 2005 was $139 million, a $26 million or 23% increase over the third quarter of 2004. Cementing services operating income increased 29% due to higher drilling activity, improved pricing, and increased asset utilization in the United States, partially offset by lower activity in Mexico. Baroid Fluid Services operating income grew 11% on higher activity and improved pricing in Africa, as well as on strong natural gas operations in the United States. This was partially offset by lower activity in Mexico and Brazil. Hurricanes in the third quarter of 2005 negatively impacted Fluid Systems operating income by $15 million.
Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income for the third quarter of 2005 was $129 million, a $67 million or 108% increase over the prior year third quarter. All regions showed earnings growth with international operations driving 66% of the increase. Pricing improvement was evident across all product lines. Sperry Drilling Services operating income increased 109% benefiting from increased directional drilling activity in the Middle East and Latin America, as well as in Canada and the United States. Logging services operating income increased 68% due to increased activity in the United States and strong growth in Latin America and the Middle East. Security DBS Drill Bits operating income tripled, reflecting strong roller cone and fixed cutter bit sales in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the North Sea, combined with the realization of manufacturing efficiencies. Hurricanes in the third quarter of 2005 negatively impacted Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income by $5 million.
 
Digital and Consulting Solutions operating income in the third quarter of 2005 was $35 million, an $18 million or 106% increase as compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by higher production consulting and data management services revenue.
KBR
KBR revenue for the third quarter of 2005 was $2.5 billion, a 7% decrease compared to the third quarter of 2004, primarily due to decreased military support activities in Iraq. Operating income for the third quarter of 2005 was $150 million compared to an operating loss of $50 million in the prior year quarter. KBR incurred $5 million in pretax expenses, or $0.01 per diluted share after tax, related to the Gulf of Mexico hurricanes during the third quarter of 2005.
Government and Infrastructure operating income for the third quarter of 2005 was $149 million compared to an operating loss of $6 million in the third quarter of 2004. Operating income for the third quarter of 2005 included $85 million in income on the sale of the toll road interest. Iraq-related operating income increased primarily due to the favorable settlement of government audits of fuel costs and other disputed issues.
Energy and Chemicals operating income was $1 million in the third quarter of 2005 compared to an operating loss of $44 million in the third quarter of 2004. Third quarter of 2005 results were impacted by $47 million of charges related to an Algerian joint venture and an additional $23 million loss on an Algerian gas processing plant project. The operating loss in the third quarter of 2004 included $59 million of project losses on two projects: a gas processing plant in Algeria and a floating production, storage, and offloading vessel project in Indonesia. There was also $14 million of charges related to the restructuring of KBR in the third quarter of 2004.
Halliburtons Iraq-related work contributed approximately $1.2 billion in revenue in the third quarter of 2005 and $44 million of operating income, or a 3.7% margin, before corporate expenses and taxes.
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton made a number of advances in technology and new contract awards.
Energy Services Group new technologies and contract awards:
 
 
KBR new contract awards:
 
Halliburton, founded in 1919, is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the petroleum and energy industries. The company serves its customers with a broad range of products and services through its Energy Services Group and KBR. The companys World Wide Web site can be accessed at
www.halliburton.com
.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the outcome of and the publicity surrounding audits and investigations of the company by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies; potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; contract disputes with the companys customers; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to radioactive sources, explosives and chemicals; compliance with laws related to income taxes; unsettled political conditions, war and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations and foreign exchange rates and controls; weather-related issues including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by, and claims negotiations with, customers; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or gas, structural changes in the industries in which the company operates, and performance of fixed-fee projects; the development and installation of financial systems; increased competition for employees; and integration of acquired businesses, operations of joint venture, and completion of planned dispositions. Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2005, recent Current Reports on Forms 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect the business, results of operations and financial condition. Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
Note - Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to be consistent with the current presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


