FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20050425173806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
ITEM 2.02
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 21, 2005 registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces First Quarter Results.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
HOUSTON, Texas
- Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that first quarter of 2005 income from continuing operations was $367 million or $0.72 per diluted share. Income from continuing operations was $76 million or $0.17 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2004.
Net income for the quarter was $365 million or $0.72 per diluted share and included a loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $2 million.
Consolidated revenue was $4.9 billion in the first quarter of 2005, down 11% from the first quarter of 2004. This decrease was largely attributable to lower activity on government services projects in the Middle East and the winding down of lump-sum offshore engineering, procurement, installation, and commissioning contracts. This was partially offset by a 20% revenue increase in the Energy Services Group (ESG).
Consolidated operating income was $586 million in the first quarter of 2005 compared to $175 million in the first quarter of 2004. Impacting first quarter of 2005 operating income was a previously announced $110 million gain on the sale of a 50% interest in Subsea 7, Inc. Results from the first quarter of 2004 included a $97 million loss on the Barracuda-Caratinga project and a $13 million gain related to the Anglo-Dutch lawsuit.
We are pleased with our first quarter performance, both for ESG and KBR, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Halliburton. ESGs record performance benefited from increased oilfield activity and price increases we implemented during 2004. KBRs restructuring efforts have resulted in a more efficient operation, which is evidenced by the profitable results we have posted this quarter. In addition, KBR continues to make progress on resolving issues with our customer related to our work in Iraq, resulting in a settlement of the Dining Facilities matters.
2005 First Quarter Segment Results
Energy Services Group
ESG posted first quarter of 2005 revenue of $2.2 billion, a $368 million or 20% increase over the first quarter of 2004, and operating income of $513 million, up $299 million or 140% from the same period in the prior year.
Production Optimization operating income for the first quarter of 2005 was $291 million, an increase of $209 million over the first quarter of 2004. First quarter of 2005 results included a gain of $110 million on the sale of the companys equity interest in the Subsea 7, Inc. joint venture. Excluding the Subsea 7, Inc. gain, Production Optimization quarterly operating income increased 121% year-over-year. Production enhancement services operating income increased 76% in the first quarter of 2005, primarily on increased demand for well stimulation services, especially in natural gas applications in the United States, higher equipment utilization, and improved pricing in North America. Completion tools operating income increased 93% in the first quarter of 2005 compared to the first quarter of 2004. Improvements were made in each of the four geographical regions as a result of increased well completion, sand control, and reservoir performance activities. First quarter of 2004 results included an operating loss of $17 million for Subsea 7, Inc.
Fluid Systems operating income for the first quarter of 2005 was $113 million, a $53 million or 88% increase over the first quarter of 2004. Cementing services operating income increased 60% due to higher drilling activity worldwide and improved pricing and asset utilization in North America. Baroid Fluids Services operating income increased 230% on higher margins in Africa and Asia Pacific and increases in both price and volume in the Gulf of Mexico. Baroid Fluids Services results from the Gulf of Mexico also benefited from cost efficiencies realized from the restructuring efforts initiated last year.
Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income of $80 million was up $37 million or 86% over the prior year first quarter. Sperry Drilling Services operating income increased 71%, benefiting from increased U.S. activity, improved pricing, deepwater contracts in Brazil that utilize GeoPilot and GeoTap technologies, and $9 million in lower depreciation expense due to the extension of the useful life of drilling tools beginning in the second quarter of 2004. Logging services operating income increased 65% due to improved activity and pricing in North America. In addition, logging services operating income improved in the Middle East/Asia region. Drill bits operating income improved 300% primarily due to strong fixed cutter bit sales in North America.
 
Digital and Consulting Solutions operating income was flat compared to the prior year period. Operating income for Landmark Graphics increased 33% in the first quarter of 2005 compared to the first quarter of 2004 mainly driven by sales of the company's real-time drilling applications as well as increased revenue from data bank projects.
KBR
KBR revenue for the first quarter of 2005 was $2.8 billion, a 26% decrease compared to the first quarter of 2004. Operating income for the first quarter of 2005 was $105 million compared to an operating loss of $15 million in the first quarter of 2004.
Government and Infrastructure (G&I) operating income for the first quarter of 2005 was $53 million compared to $62 million in the first quarter of 2004, a 15% decrease. Most of this decrease was attributable to the completion of the RIO contract. Operating income in the first quarter of 2005 was positively affected by a settlement with KBRs customer for its Iraq-related work under the LogCAP III contract.
Energy and Chemicals (E&C) operating income totaled $52 million in the first quarter of 2005 compared to a $77 million loss in the first quarter of 2004, which included a $97 million loss on the Barracuda-Caratinga project. The first quarter of 2005 results were positively impacted by stronger results on many projects, including offshore engineering and management projects in the Caspian and Angola and offshore production services projects in the United Kingdom.
KBRs backlog at March 31, 2005 was $9.4 billion, up approximately $1.0 billion from December 31, 2004, primarily due to a recent LNG award. Of the total backlog, $4.8 billion is for G&I projects, and $4.6 billion is for E&C projects.
Halliburtons Iraq-related work contributed approximately $1.5 billion in revenue in the first quarter of 2005 and $38 million of operating income, or a 2.6% margin.
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton had a number of advances in technology and new contract awards.
Energy Services Group new technologies:
 
KBR new contract awards:
 
Halliburton, founded in 1919, is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the petroleum and energy industries. The company serves its customers with a broad range of products and services through its Energy Services Group and KBR. The companys World Wide Web site can be accessed at
www.halliburton.com
.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: legal risks, including the risks of audits and investigations of the company by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and potential adverse proceedings and findings by such agencies, a delay in the receipt of additional agreed payments from insurers arising from asbestos and silica claims, the risks of judgments against the company and its subsidiaries in litigation and proceedings, including shareholder lawsuits, securities laws inquiries, contract disputes, patent infringements and environmental matters, legislation, changes in government regulations, and adverse reaction to scrutiny involving the company; political risks, including the risks of unsettled political conditions, war and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations and foreign exchange rates and controls; liquidity risks, including the risks of potential reductions in debt ratings, access to credit, availability and costs of financing, and ability to raise capital; weather-related risks; customer risks, including the risks of changes in capital spending and claims negotiations; industry risks, including the risks of changes that affect the demand for or price of oil and/or gas, structural changes in the industries in which the company operates, risks of fixed-fee projects, and risks of
complex business arrangements; systems risks, including the risks of successful development and installation of financial systems; and personnel and merger/reorganization/disposition risks, including the risks of increased competition for employees, successful integration of acquired businesses, effective restructuring efforts, and successful completion of planned dispositions. Please see Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 for a more complete discussion of such risk factors.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
 
NM - Not Meaningful
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


