FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20060424163951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
Item 2.02.
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 20, 2006, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces First Quarter Results.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
 
HOUSTON, Texas
- Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that net income in the first quarter of 2006 was $488 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, compared to net income of $365 million, or $0.72 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2005. Net income in the first quarter of 2006 included income from discontinued operations of $7 million after tax, or $0.01 per diluted share, primarily related to the operations of KBRs Production Services group, which is expected to be sold in the second quarter of 2006 with a pretax gain of approximately $100 million. Net income in the first quarter of 2005 also included income from discontinued operations of $6 million after tax, or $0.01 per diluted share. Income from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2006 was $481 million, or $0.90 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations of $359 million, or $0.71 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2005.
Consolidated revenue in the first quarter of 2006 was $5.2 billion compared to $4.8 billion in the first quarter of 2005. This increase was largely attributable to higher activity in the Energy Services Group (ESG), where revenue increased 35% from the prior year first quarter to a record level of $2.9 billion. Lower revenue in KBR, primarily on government services projects in the Middle East, partially offset this increase.
Consolidated operating income was $755 million in the first quarter of 2006 compared to $575 million in the first quarter of 2005, a 31% increase. ESGs operating income improved 42%, reflecting increased rig activity, higher utilization of assets, and increased pricing. First quarter of 2005 operating income included a $110 million gain on the sale of the companys 50% interest in the Subsea 7, Inc. joint venture. KBRs operating income in the first quarter of 2006 declined compared to the prior year first quarter, primarily due to $30 million in charges related to an equity method investment in an Australian railroad and reduced activities for Government and Infrastructure (G&I) operations in Iraq.
Halliburton/Page 2
I am pleased to report another record quarter for the Energy Services Group. We continue to benefit from our strength in North America, where our customers spending is most concentrated. Our investment in key Eastern Hemisphere markets is also resulting in quality growth, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Halliburton. Last weeks filing of KBR, Inc.s Form S-1 marks a significant milestone in our strategy to separate KBR from the Energy Services Group.
2006 First Quarter Segment Results
Energy Services Group
ESG posted revenue of $2.9 billion in the first quarter of 2006, a $754 million or 35% increase over the first quarter of 2005. ESGs operating income was $727 million, up $214 million or 42% from the same period in the prior year. ESGs operating income margin was 24.7% during the first quarter of 2006.
First quarter of 2006 revenue in the Western Hemisphere grew 36% over the previous year first quarter. First quarter of 2006 Western Hemisphere operating income margins were 28.6%, compared to 29.1% in the first quarter of 2005, which included the $110 million Subsea 7, Inc. gain. Gains in both revenue and operating income margins were led by the strong United States and Canadian markets.
Eastern Hemisphere results were impacted by the typical first quarter reduction in Landmark revenue and weather-related factors. In addition, the direct export sales of equipment were low as a result of a change in strategy regarding direct sales. Nonetheless, Eastern Hemisphere first quarter of 2006 revenue grew 32% over the prior year first quarter, while operating income improved 70% over the same period.
Production Optimization operating income for the first quarter of 2006 was $340 million, an increase of $49 million or 17% over the first quarter of 2005, which included a $110 million gain on the sale of the Subsea 7, Inc. equity interest. Production Enhancement operating income more than doubled, driven by strong demand for well stimulation services in natural gas applications, increased utilization of crews and assets, and improved pricing, particularly in the United States. Completion Tools operating income increased 21% due to higher activity in the United States, the North Sea, and Saudi Arabia.
Fluid Systems operating income for the first quarter of 2006 was $182 million, a $69 million or 61% increase over the first quarter of 2005. Cementing Services operating income increased 66% due to higher drilling activity, improved pricing, and increased asset utilization in the United States and growth in offshore activity in the Gulf of Mexico, western Africa, and the North Sea. These results were partially offset by lower offshore activity in Latin America. Baroid Fluid Services operating income grew 49% on strong activity and improved product mix in the United States and higher activity in western Africa.
 
Halliburton/Page 3
Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income for the first quarter of 2006 was $156 million, a $76 million or 95% increase over the prior year first quarter. Sperry Drilling Services operating income increased 117% in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the first quarter of 2005, benefiting from increased activity in the Gulf of Mexico, the Middle East, Asia Pacific, and the North Sea. Logging Services operating income increased 50% due to increased activity in the United States and Asia Pacific. Security DBS Drill Bits operating income doubled over the prior year first quarter, reflecting improved pricing and fixed cutter activity in North America and Europe, as well as improved pricing and roller cone bit demand in the Middle East.
Digital and Consulting Solutions operating income in the first quarter of 2006 was $49 million, an increase of $20 million or 69% over the prior year period. First quarter of 2005 Digital and Consulting Solutions operating income included a $17 million favorable insurance claim settlement, partially offset by an $8 million loss on two integrated solutions projects in Mexico. Landmark operating income nearly tripled compared to the prior year first quarter due to improved sales of software and consulting services primarily in the United States and Latin America, as well as improvements in its cost structure.
KBR
KBR revenue for the first quarter of 2006 was $2.3 billion, a $327 million or 13% decrease compared to the first quarter of 2005, primarily due to decreased military support activities in Iraq. Operating income for the first quarter of 2006 was $62 million, a $32 million or 34% decrease compared to the prior year quarter.
Government and Infrastructure operating income for the first quarter of 2006 was $20 million, a $33 million or 62% decrease compared to the first quarter of 2005. The decrease was attributable in part to reduced activity on the LogCAP III contract and differences in award fees and settlements recorded in each period related to that contract. First quarter of 2006 results were impacted by a $30 million impairment charge and loss recorded on an equity investment in an Australian railroad operation due to delays in the expansion of the Port of Darwin and a delay in mining operations that resulted in reduced freight.
Energy and Chemicals operating income for the first quarter of 2006 was $42 million, a $1 million increase compared to the first quarter of 2005. KBR and its customer, Petrobras, have now agreed on the technical and operational acceptance of the completed floating production vessels. Although later than previously expected, final lender approval is expected shortly. The first quarter of 2006 results included a $15 million charge on the Barracuda-Caratinga project, reflecting additional costs to finalize the project and for warranty matters.
Halliburtons Iraq-related work contributed approximately $1.1 billion in revenue in the first quarter of 2006 and $27 million of operating income, or a 2.5% margin, before corporate expenses and taxes.
 
Halliburton/Page 4
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton made a number of advances in technology and new contract awards.
Energy Services Group new technologies and contract awards:
Halliburton/Page 5
KBR new technologies and contract awards:
Halliburton, founded in 1919, is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the petroleum and energy industries. The company serves its customers with a broad range of products and services through its Energy Services Group and KBR. The companys World Wide Web site can be accessed at
www.halliburton.com
.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: consequences of audits and investigations of the company by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity; potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; contract disputes with the companys customers; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to radioactive sources, explosives and chemicals; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; unsettled political conditions, war and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations and foreign exchange rates and controls; weather-related issues including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by, and claims negotiations with, customers; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or gas, structural changes in the industries in which the company operates, and performance of fixed-fee projects; the development and installation of financial systems; increased competition for employees; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses, operations of joint ventures, and completion of planned dispositions. Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, recent Current Reports on Forms 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect the business, results of operations and financial condition. Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in income.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBRs Production Services operations to discontinued operations.
Note - Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to be consistent with the current presentation.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBRs Production Services operations to discontinued operations. At March 31, 2006, Production Services assets were $236 million, of which $170 million were classified as current, and liabilities were $80 million, of which $76 million were classified as current. At December 31, 2005, Production Services assets were $207 million, of which $140 million were classified as current, and liabilities were $64 million, of which $54 million were classified as current.
See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in income.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


