FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20061024145131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
On October 22, 2006, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces Third Quarter Earnings of $0.58 Per Diluted Share.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
HOUSTON, Texas
- Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that income from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2006 was $615 million, or $0.58 per diluted share. This compares to income from continuing operations of $492 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2005. Net income in the third quarter of 2006 included a $4 million after-tax loss related to discontinued operations, while net income in the third quarter of 2005 included after-tax income from discontinued operations of $7 million.
Consolidated revenue in the third quarter of 2006 was $5.8 billion, up 19% from the third quarter of 2005. This increase was largely attributable to higher activity in the Energy Services Group, particularly in North America.
Consolidated operating income was $968 million in the third quarter of 2006 compared to $680 million in the third quarter of 2005. The Energy Services Group (ESG) benefited from increased customer activity and pricing gains. Operating margins at ESG were their highest ever, at 26.7%. Operating income for the third quarter of 2005 included $85 million in income on the sale by KBR of an equity investment in a toll road.
 
This was an exceptional quarter for Halliburton. The Energy Services Group improved on its impressive second quarter results, growing revenue 9 percent sequentially, and again setting new records for revenue, operating income, and operating margins. Im also pleased with the quarterly performance of KBR, which posted a 7.5 percent operating margin in the Energy and Chemicals segment, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Halliburton.
Halliburton/Page 2
2006 Third Quarter Segment Results
Energy Services Group
ESG posted record revenue of $3.4 billion in the third quarter of 2006, a $795 million or 31% increase over the third quarter of 2005. ESG posted record operating income of $906 million, up $340 million or 60% from the same period in the prior year. ESGs record operating margin was 26.7% during the third quarter of 2006, a 490 basis point improvement from the third quarter of 2005. Hurricanes in the third quarter of 2005 negatively impacted ESG operating income by approximately $28 million.
Production Optimization operating income for the third quarter of 2006 was $406 million, an increase of $158 million or 64% over the third quarter of 2005. Production Enhancement services operating income grew 58%, with improvements in all regions, driven by strong demand for well stimulation services and improved pricing in the United States and Canada. Production Enhancement results also benefited from improved asset utilization and increased well stimulation services in Venezuela, increased offshore activity in Mexico, and strong activity in northern Africa. Completion Tools operating income more than doubled, with improvements in all regions, due to increased sales in Brazil, Malaysia, Sakhalin, Angola, and throughout the Middle East.
 
Fluid Systems operating income for the third quarter of 2006 was $211 million, a $72 million or 52% increase over the third quarter of 2005. Cementing services operating income increased 49%, with improvements in all regions, due to increased activity and improved pricing. Baroid Fluid Services operating income grew 60% on improved pricing and better product mix in the United States, growth in deepwater activity in the Gulf of Mexico, and increased activity in Latin America and the Middle East.
Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income for the third quarter of 2006 was $227 million, an $83 million or 58% increase over the prior year third quarter. Sperry Drilling Services operating income increased 68%, with improvements in all regions, led by the Gulf of Mexico, Asia Pacific, and the Middle East. The demand for Geo-Pilot and GeoTap systems contributed to sales growth in excess of 60% for these technologies over the prior year period. Wireline and Perforating services operating income increased 53% due to increased activity and improved asset utilization in the United States and Asia Pacific. Demand for services in the Middle East and pricing improvement also contributed to Wireline and Perforating services increase in operating income. Security DBS Drill Bits operating income improved 37% over the prior year third quarter, reflecting improved fixed cutter and roller cone bit activity in the United States, the Middle East, and Asia Pacific.
Digital and Consulting Solutions operating income in the third quarter of 2006 was $62 million, an increase of $27 million or 77% compared to the prior year quarter. Landmarks operating income more than doubled compared to operating income of the prior year period, posting improvements in all regions on stronger software sales.
Halliburton/Page 3
KBR
KBR revenue for the third quarter of 2006 was $2.4 billion compared to $2.3 billion in the third quarter of 2005. Operating income for the third quarter of 2006 was $98 million compared to operating income of $140 million in the prior year third quarter.
Government and Infrastructure operating income for the third quarter of 2006 was $53 million, compared to $150 million in the third quarter of 2005. Results in the third quarter of 2006 included an impairment charge of $32 million on a railroad investment in Australia. Third quarter of 2005 results included $85 million in income on the sale of KBRs equity investment in a toll road.
Energy and Chemicals posted operating income of $45 million in the third quarter of 2006 compared to an operating loss of $10 million in the third quarter of 2005. Third quarter 2005 results were impacted by $47 million of charges related to an Algerian joint venture and an additional $23 million loss on an Algerian gas processing plant project.
Halliburtons Iraq-related work contributed approximately $1.2 billion in revenue in the third quarter of 2006 and $45 million of operating income, a 3.7% margin, before corporate expenses and taxes.
Corporate
As previously announced in September 2006, the companys Board of Directors authorized a $2 billion increase in its common share repurchase program. In the third quarter of 2006, the company repurchased 26.6 million shares at an average price of $32.51 per share, for approximately $865 million. Approximately 31.6 million shares at an average price of $32.99 per share have been repurchased since the commencement of the program in March 2006.
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton made a number of advances in technology and new contract awards.
Energy Services Group new contract awards and technologies:
Halliburton/Page 4
KBR new contract awards:
 
Halliburton/Page 5
Halliburton, founded in 1919, is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the petroleum and energy industries. The company serves its customers with a broad range of products and services through its Energy Services Group and KBR. The companys World Wide Web site can be accessed at
www.halliburton.com
.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: consequences of audits and investigations of the company by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity; potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; contract disputes with the companys customers; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to radioactive sources, explosives, and chemicals; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; unsettled political conditions, war, and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations, and foreign exchange rates and controls; weather-related issues including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by, and claims negotiations with, customers; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or gas, structural changes in the industries in which the company operates, and performance of fixed-fee projects; the development and installation of financial systems; increased competition for employees; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses, operations of joint venture, and completion of planned dispositions. Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect the business, results of operations, and financial condition. Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBRs Production Services operations to discontinued operations, as well as the reorganization of tubing conveyed perforating, slickline, and underbalanced applications operations from Production Optimization into the Drilling and Formation Evaluation segment.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBRs Production Services operations to discontinued operations, as well as the reorganization of tubing conveyed perforating, slickline, and underbalanced applications operations from Production Optimization into the Drilling and Formation Evaluation segment.
Note - Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to be consistent with the current presentation.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBRs Production Services operations, which were sold during the second quarter of 2006, to discontinued operations. At December 31, 2005, Production Services assets were $207 million, of which $140 million were classified as current, and liabilities were $64 million, of which $54 million were classified as current.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


