FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20070724114215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
On July 23, 2007, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces Second   Quarter Earnings of $1.62 Per Diluted Share, $0.63 Per Diluted Share From Continuing Operations.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
 Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that net income for the second quarter of 2007 was $1.5 billion, or $1.62 per diluted share, which includes a net gain of $933 million from the separation of KBR, Inc. recorded in discontinued operations. This compares to net income of $591 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2006. Income from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2007 was $595 million, or $0.63 per diluted share. This compares to income from continuing operations of $498 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2006.
HOUSTON, Texas
Halliburtons consolidated revenue in the second quarter of 2007 was $3.7 billion, up 20% from the second quarter of 2006. This increase was attributable to increased worldwide activity, particularly in the Eastern Hemisphere.
Consolidated operating income was $893 million in the second quarter of 2007 compared to $760 million in the second quarter of 2006.  The increase in operating income was generated primarily by increased customer activity and new international contracts.  Also included in second quarter of 2007 operating income was a $49 million gain before tax ($0.03 after tax per diluted share) from the sale of an investment.
We are pleased with this quarters results in the Eastern Hemisphere, where we posted 14% revenue and 21% operating income growth as compared to the first quarter of 2007. Our operating income margins in the Eastern Hemisphere increased to nearly 22%. Our commitment to invest in high-growth Eastern Hemisphere markets is evident in our results, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer. In addition, we have seen a strong recovery in the United States well stimulation market from the slowdown we experienced last winter.  In fact, in June we experienced the highest monthly United States well stimulation revenue in our history.  Our Canadian operations were impacted by the significant decline in activity and the spring breakup season.  Our Drilling and Formation Evaluation segment experienced a $21 million decline in operating income from the first quarter due to Canadian operations.
Halliburton/Page 2
2007 Second Quarter Results
Production Optimization operating income in the second quarter of 2007 was $403 million, an increase of $35 million or 10% from the second quarter of 2006.  Production Enhancement operating income declined 2%, primarily from reduced activity in Asia Pacific and Eurasia, while North America was stable.  Completion Tools operating income grew 58%, with non-North American operating income increasing more than 64%.  The Completion Tools operating income increase was led by the Middle East, Malaysia, Brazil, and Mexico.
Fluid Systems operating income in the second quarter of 2007 was $200 million, consistent with the results in the second quarter of 2006.  Cementing operating income increased 9% compared to the prior year second quarter with increased activity in all regions.  Baroid Fluid Services operating income declined 22%, primarily from reduced activity in Latin America and the recording of an additional reserve related to an environmental matter.
 
Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income in the second quarter of 2007 was $235 million, an increase of $41 million or 21% over the prior year second quarter. Sperry Drilling Services operating income increased 42%, with a 75% increase in the Eastern Hemisphere, benefiting from increased activity and the introduction of new technology.  Wireline and Perforating Services operating income decreased 7%, primarily due to the Canadian breakup impact on the expanded business in Canada.  Security DBS Drill Bits operating income improved 42% over the prior year second quarter, reflecting increased rig activity and fixed cutter bit sales in the United States and the North Sea.
Digital and Consulting Solutions operating income in the second quarter of 2007 was $117 million, up $66 million, or 129%, from the prior year quarter. The second quarter of 2007 operating income included a gain of $49 million from the sale of an investment.  Landmarks year over year operating income grew 49% with increases in all four regions on improved sales of software and consulting services.
Halliburton/Page 3
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton made a number of advances in technology and growth.
Halliburton/Page 4
Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the energy industry.  With nearly 50,000 employees in approximately 70 countries, the company serves the upstream oil and gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir  from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production through the life of the field. Visit the companys World Wide Web site at .
www.halliburton.com
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements.  These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: consequences of audits and investigations by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity; potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to radioactive sources, explosives, and chemicals; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; unsettled political conditions, war, and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations, and foreign exchange rates and controls; weather-related issues including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by customers; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or natural gas, impairment of oil and gas properties, structural changes in the oil and natural gas industry; increased competition for employees; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses and operations of joint ventures. Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2007, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect the business, results of operations, and financial condition.  Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations and the reclassification of certain expenses that were previously allocated to the segments and are now included in general corporate expenses.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations and the reclassification of certain expenses that were previously allocated to the segments and are now included in general corporate expenses.
 
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations.
 
 
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations.
 
 
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of certain expenses that were previously allocated to the segments and are now included in general corporate expenses.  Also, the results for Sakhalin have been reclassified from Middle East/Asia to Europe/Africa/CIS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


