FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20070430160145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
Item 2.02.
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 26, 2007, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces First Quarter Earnings of $0.54 Per Diluted Share; Continuing Operations Contributed $0.52 Per Diluted Share.
HOUSTON, Texas
- Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that net income for the first quarter of 2007 was $0.54 per diluted share, which includes the results of KBR, Inc. in discontinued operations. Income from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2007 was $529 million, or $0.52 per diluted share. This compares to income from continuing operations of $449 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2006.
Halliburtons consolidated revenue in the first quarter of 2007 was $3.4 billion, up 17% from the first quarter of 2006. This increase was attributable to higher worldwide activity and the companys focus on investing in and expanding Eastern Hemisphere operations.
Consolidated operating income was $788 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to $692 million in the first quarter of 2006. Results benefited from increased customer activity, pricing gains, and new international contract awards.
 
This quarter marks the start of a new chapter in Halliburtons history as we completed the separation of KBR. I am encouraged by the prospects that await us, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer.  We are now completely focused on the global growth opportunities in our energy services business. The first quarter saw many positives for Halliburton. Sperry Drilling Services, Wireline and Perforating, Cementing Services, and Baroid Fluid Services all posted revenue that met or exceeded their best quarters ever. Also, we saw revenue growth in the Middle East of 20% year-over-year and 8% sequentially. However, this was overshadowed by a challenging market in the United States for our Production Enhancement business where a combination of weather delays and lower commodity prices had a negative impact. We believe that with the actions we have already taken, coupled with improving market conditions, Production Enhancement operations should improve later this year.
2007 First Quarter Results
Production Optimization operating income for the first quarter of 2007 was $325 million, a decrease of $8 million or 2% from the first quarter of 2006. Production Enhancement services operating income fell 11%, primarily in Canada and the United States Rocky Mountains. These markets were impacted by increased costs related to lower-than-anticipated activity in the first quarter of 2007, driven by decreases in natural gas prices and weather delays. Completion Tools operating income grew 40%, led by increased product sales in the United States and Africa. The companys intelligent well completions joint venture, however, experienced reduced results in the first quarter of 2007 due to manufacturing and supply chain constraints.
Fluid Systems operating income for the first quarter of 2007 was $214 million, a $25 million or 13% increase over the first quarter of 2006, with Eastern Hemisphere operating income increasing 38%. Cementing Services operating income increased 10% compared to the prior years first quarter. Cementing Services were negatively impacted in the first quarter of 2007 by the slowdown in Canada. Outside of North America, Cementing services operating income grew 50% over the prior years quarter, reflecting new contract awards and improved pricing. Baroid Fluid Services operating income grew 23% from participation on deeper wells, increased activity, and improved pricing, particularly in the United States, northern Africa, and Mexico.
 
Drilling and Formation Evaluation operating income for the first quarter of 2007 was $256 million, a $77 million or 43% increase over the prior years first quarter. Sperry Drilling Services operating income increased 49%, with over 65% of the operating income growth coming from the Eastern Hemisphere. Sperry Drilling Services operating income in the United States grew 36%, benefiting from new contracts in Alaska and increased directional drilling activity throughout the lower 48 states. Wireline and Perforating Services operating income increased 44%, with increased activity in the United States and the Middle East, as well as new contract wins in Africa and Asia Pacific. Security DBS Drill Bits operating income improved 19% over the prior years first quarter, reflecting strong fixed-cutter bit activity in the United States.
Digital and Consulting Solutions operating income in the first quarter of 2007 was $50 million, essentially flat as compared to the prior years quarter. Landmarks operating income grew due to improved sales of software in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton made a number of advances in technology, expansion, and business structure changes.
Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the energy industry.  With more than 45,000 employees in nearly 70 countries, the company serves the upstream oil and gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir - from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production through the life of the field. The companys World Wide Web site can be accessed at
www.halliburton.com
.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: consequences of audits and investigations by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity; potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to radioactive sources, explosives, and chemicals; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; unsettled political conditions, war, and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations, and foreign exchange rates and controls; weather-related issues including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by customers; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or natural gas, structural changes in the oil and natural gas industry; increased competition for employees; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses and operations of joint ventures. Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect the business, results of operations, and financial condition. Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations and the reclassification of certain expenses that were previously allocated to the segments and are now included in general corporate expenses. 
   
 See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
   
 All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations and the reclassification of certain expenses that
   
 were previously allocated to the segments and are now included in general corporate expenses.
   
   See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of certain expenses that were previously allocated to the segments and are now included in general corporate expenses.  Also, the results for Sakhalin have been reclassified from Middle East/Asia to Europe/Africa/CIS.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 


