FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20071218104437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
As announced on December 6, 2007, Andrew R. Lane, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, will be taking early retirement on December 31, 2007.  Under his Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1999, Mr. Lane will receive, as of his early retirement date, (a) his regular salary through such date, (b) a lump sum payment equal to two years annual base salary, (c) retention of all shares of Halliburton common stock previously granted to him under the Halliburton Company 1993 Stock and Incentive Plan (the 1993 Plan), (d) retention of all option shares granted under the 1993 Plan, subject to their existing vesting schedules, (e) retirement benefits payable under Halliburtons Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and Benefit Restoration Plan, and (f) retirement and welfare plan benefits provided employees generally.
On December 12, 2007, Halliburton and Mr. Lane entered into a Resignation, General Release and Settlement Agreement, Supplementing and Amending the Executive Employment Agreement, under which Mr. Lane will be eligible to receive a lump sum payment of $1,050,000 and any pro-rata benefits payable under the 2006 and 2007 cycles under Halliburtons Performance Unit Program if he completes a three-year non-competition and non-solicitation agreement.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


