FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20080129173116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
  
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 28, 2008, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces Full Year and Fourth Quarter Earnings.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
 Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that revenue was $15.3 billion for the full year 2007, an increase of 18% from the full year 2006, and operating income was $3.5 billion, an increase of 8% from the full year 2006.  Income from continuing operations for the full year 2007 was $2.5 billion, or $2.66 per diluted share, compared to 2006 income from continuing operations of $2.2 billion, or $2.07 per diluted share. 2007 earnings per share were positively impacted by improved operating performance, a lower share count, and the favorable income tax impact from the ability to recognize United States foreign tax credits that were previously assumed not to be fully utilizable.  Net income in 2007 was $3.5 billion, or $3.68 per diluted share, compared to 2006 net income of $2.3 billion, or $2.23 per diluted share.  Income from discontinued operations in 2007 included a net gain of $933 million recorded for the separation of KBR, Inc.
HOUSTON, Texas
Halliburtons consolidated revenue in the fourth quarter of 2007 was $4.2 billion, up 19% from the fourth quarter of 2006.  This increase was attributable to increased worldwide activity, particularly in the Eastern Hemisphere.
Income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2007 was $674 million, or $0.74 per diluted share, compared to $627 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2006.  The fourth quarter 2007 results were unfavorably impacted by a $22 million after-tax charge related to the impairment of an oil and gas property in Bangladesh, where the company has had an interest in a producing property since 1996, and $8 million of after-tax expenses associated with executive separation costs.  The quarter was also favorably impacted by a lower tax rate as increased international profits allowed the company to recognize additional foreign tax credits.  Net income for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $690 million, or $0.75 per diluted share.  This compares to net income of $658 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Halliburton/Page 2
Consolidated operating income was $907 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared to $923 million in the fourth quarter of 2006.  Fourth quarter of 2007 operating income included a $34 million impairment charge for the Bangladesh oil and gas property and $12 million for executive separation costs.  Operating income in the fourth quarter of 2006 included a $48 million gain on the sale of lift boats in West Africa and the North Sea and a $38 million gain related to insurance proceeds for business interruptions resulting from the 2005 Gulf of Mexico hurricanes.
I am very pleased with our performance in 2007, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer. We are particularly pleased by our growth in the Eastern Hemisphere, where revenue increased 27% year-over-year, and operating income increased 26% year-over-year.
Our revenue in the fourth quarter grew 6% sequentially, marked by strong activity in both hemispheres.  Our Eastern Hemisphere business grew an impressive 12% sequentially from the third quarter.  Eastern Hemisphere operating income was down 3% sequentially, impacted by the impairment charge for the Bangladesh oil and gas property, mobilization costs for new contracts in Africa, and an unfavorable product sales mix.  These items resulted in lower fourth quarter operating margins but do not affect our overall outlook for the hemisphere. Fourth quarter Eastern Hemisphere operating margins were nearly 23%, excluding the impact of the oil and gas impairment charge.  Looking forward, we are confident that our strategies and the supporting investments we are making in our drilling, evaluation, and completions product lines will drive Halliburtons continued international growth.
Sequentially, Western Hemisphere revenue and operating income grew 2% and 3% respectively, driven by activity increases in Canada, the Gulf of Mexico, and Latin America.  Our United States land fracturing business experienced the expected seasonal slowdown and continued pricing pressures.  Pricing declines in fracturing were in the low- to mid-single digits in the fourth quarter, in line with what we anticipated.  We have largely offset the seasonal slowdown and price declines by the growth in revenue and operating income of our other service offerings, with our directional drilling and drill bits businesses registering strong performance.
In the fourth quarter, we successfully rolled over a significant portion of our fracturing contracts.  We maintained our strong position in the United States and picked up market share in some locations.  Based on the prices in these contracts, we anticipate that we will see an average price decline in our fracturing business in the mid- to upper-single digits during the first quarter of 2008.  We will be partially offsetting this impact by growth in our other service lines, resulting in a more balanced portfolio, and by capitalizing on the trend towards unconventional plays and horizontal drilling.  We expect to see prices stabilize during the latter half of the year, as equipment additions decelerate, and our customers try to meet their drilling plans.
Our international growth is providing the strength to offset the challenging North American market, with over 55% of our fourth quarter revenue coming from outside of North America.
Halliburton/Page 3
2007 Fourth Quarter Results
Completion and Production (C&P) operating income in the fourth quarter of 2007 was $571 million, a decrease of $26 million or 4% from the fourth quarter of 2006, which was impacted by a $48 million gain on the sale of lift boats in West Africa and the North Sea in 2006.   This gain unfavorably impacted yearly comparisons for C&P in the Europe/Africa/CIS region.  A decline in North Sea activity for completion tools also impacted the region.  Middle East/Asia C&P operating income increased 78%, with increased project activity across all product lines in the region.  North America C&P operating income decreased 9%, primarily due to a $17 million gain related to hurricane insurance proceeds in the fourth quarter of 2006.  Additionally, North America was impacted by cost escalation and reduced production enhancement pricing in the United States.  Latin America C&P operating income increased 30%, primarily due to increased cementing activity in Mexico and Brazil.
Drilling and Evaluation (D&E) operating income in the fourth quarter of 2007 was $403 million, an increase of $18 million or 5% over the prior year fourth quarter.  Europe/Africa/CIS D&E operating income increased 52%, benefiting from increased Sperry Drilling Services and wireline activity in the North Sea and North Africa.  Middle East/Asia D&E operating income decreased 11% over the prior year fourth quarter due to the $34 million Bangladesh impairment charge.  Partially offsetting the charge was improved demand for wireline services in the Middle East and Sperry Drilling Services sales in Asia.  North America D&E operating income decreased 3%, negatively impacted by the $21 million gain related to hurricane insurance proceeds in the fourth quarter of 2006 and lower drilling activity in Canada.  This was partially offset by an increase in horizontal drilling activity in the United States. Latin America D&E operating income decreased 14% on lower activity in Venezuela.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, under the companys share repurchase program, Halliburton purchased approximately 2 million shares at an average price of $36.26 for a total cost of approximately $67 million.  Since the inception of the program, Halliburton has purchased 79 million shares for a total cost of approximately $2.7 billion.  Approximately $2.3 billion remains available under the program.
Halliburton/Page 4
Technology and Significant Achievements
A reconciliation of as reported results to adjusted results for the non-GAAP disclosure is in the Reconciliation table of this press release.
Halliburton/Page 5
Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the energy industry.  With nearly 50,000 employees in approximately 70 countries, the company serves the upstream oil and gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir  from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production through the life of the field. Visit the companys World Wide Web site at
www.halliburton.com
.
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements.  These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: consequences of audits and investigations by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity; potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to radioactive sources, explosives, and chemicals; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; unsettled political conditions, war, and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations, and foreign exchange rates and controls; weather-related issues including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by customers; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or natural gas; impairment of oil and gas properties; structural changes in the oil and natural gas industry; increased competition for employees; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses and operations of joint ventures. Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2007, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect the business, results of operations, and financial condition.  Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
HALLIBURTON COMPANY
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations, the change in reportable segments due to an organizational restructuring, and the reclassification of certain amounts between the segments and Corporate and Other.
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations, the change in reportable segments due to an organizational restructuring, and the reclassification of certain amounts between the segments and Corporate and Other.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations.
 
(Unaudited)
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of KBR, Inc. to discontinued operations.
See Footnote Table 1 and Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of certain amounts between the segments/regions and Corporate and Other.  Also, the results for Sakhalin have been reclassified from Middle East/Asia to Europe/Africa/CIS.
See Footnote Table 1 and Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
All periods presented reflect the reclassification of certain amounts between the segments/regions and Corporate and Other.  Also, the results for Sakhalin have been reclassified from Middle East/Asia to Europe/Africa/CIS.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


