FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20080722163303.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
  
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 22, 2008, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces Second Quarter Earnings of $0.68 Per Diluted Share From Continuing Operations.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
 Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that income from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2008 was $623 million, or $0.68 per diluted share. This compares to income from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2007 of $595 million, or $0.63 per diluted share.  Second quarter 2008 results were negatively impacted by a $30 million charge related to a patent settlement and $5 million of acquisition-related expense for the Expro bid, offset by $25 million in gains related to the sale of two investments in the United States.  The net impact of these items was $10 million.  Second quarter 2007 results were favorably impacted by a $49 million gain related to the sale of an investment.
HOUSTON, Texas
Halliburtons consolidated revenue in the second quarter of 2008 was a record $4.5 billion, up 20% from the second quarter of 2007. All product service lines contributed to this increase, driven by both increased international activity and strengthening demand in the United States.
Consolidated operating income was $949 million in the second quarter of 2008 compared to $893 million in the second quarter of 2007.  Both segments and all geographic regions contributed to the increase.
I am very pleased with our results for the second quarter as we continue to show healthy expansion of our business on a worldwide basis, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer.
Revenue outside of North America grew 26% year-over-year, exceeding our 20% growth target.  Eastern Hemisphere revenue increased by 23% year-over-year as operations in Norway, Saudi Arabia, Angola, and Oman led the way.  Latin America continued its exceptional growth, with our four biggest markets of Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, and Venezuela all experiencing year-over-year revenue increases between 30% and 56%.
Halliburton/Page 2
Sequentially, revenue growth in Latin America and in the Eastern Hemisphere was an outstanding 17% and 15% respectively.  Sequential operating income increased 20% in both areas, excluding the first quarter impairment charges related to an oil and gas property.
Eastern Hemisphere margins expanded to 21% even with our continued heavy investments in people, facilities, and equipment to support the next phase of our growth.  Margins were additionally impacted this quarter by the ramp-up of costs for our Manifa offshore award where drilling is expected to start next year and reach a total of ten rigs.  We still believe that Eastern Hemisphere margins can continue to expand.
North America revenue grew 7% sequentially, despite the seasonal slowdown experienced in Canada during spring break-up.
For the United States, revenue grew 14% year-over-year and 12% sequentially through the expansion of our well construction businesses along with strengthening pressure pumping activity.  United States operating income grew 5% sequentially, as higher activity offset the impact of the pricing pressures on our fracturing business and cost inflation related to fuel and materials on all of our businesses.
Second quarter average pricing declines in our United States fracturing business were in the 1% to 2% range we discussed in the first quarter.  Pricing had largely stabilized by the end of the second quarter, and we expect prices to remain firm or improve going forward.  Currently, wireline logging, directional drilling/LWD, and drill bits have the most pricing leverage in this market.
As unconventional and horizontal activity continues to expand, we have seen many of our recent technology introductions become drivers for growth and increase our ability to address our customers most challenging reservoirs.
Increasing energy prices, above levels previously envisioned, coupled with expanding drilling and completion budgets for our North American customers, bodes well for future activity.  This strengthens last quarters expectation that the next leg up in this extended cycle is near, and we anticipate the strategies we have employed will allow us to continue performing at a high level.
In the second quarter of 2007, Halliburton completed the separation of KBR, Inc. and recorded to discontinued operations a gain of $933 million, net of tax and the estimated fair value of indemnities and guarantees provided to KBR, Inc. In the second quarter of 2008, Halliburton recorded additional charges to discontinued operations totaling $117 million net of tax, or $0.13 per diluted share, related to changes in the estimated fair value of the indemnities and guarantees provided to KBR, Inc.
Net income in the second quarter of 2008 was $507 million, or $0.55 per diluted share.  This compares to net income of $1.5 billion, or $1.62 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2007.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 3
2008 Second Quarter Results
Completion and Production (C&P) operating income in the second quarter of 2008 was $561 million, an increase of $6 million or 1% from the second quarter of 2007.  Europe/Africa/CIS C&P operating income increased 39% with the most significant impact coming from increased activity in Africa.  Middle East/Asia C&P operating income increased 19%, primarily due to increased activity related to the Khurais project in Saudi Arabia.  North America C&P operating income decreased 13%, due to pricing declines and cost increases in the United States for production enhancement, partially offset by improved completion tools sales and services.  Latin America C&P operating income increased 22% from higher vessel utilization and increased activity.
Drilling and Evaluation (D&E) operating income in the second quarter of 2008 was $480 million, an increase of $132 million or 38% over the prior year second quarter.  Europe/Africa/CIS D&E operating income increased 6%, benefiting from higher activity and improved performance of Baroid Fluid Services and wireline services across the region.  Middle East/Asia D&E operating income increased 27% over the second quarter of 2007, primarily due to higher drilling and multilateral activity.  Baroid Fluid Services also experienced strong results in the region.  North America D&E operating income increased 72%, with improvement in all product service lines benefiting from increased drilling activity in the United States and improved performance of Baroid Fluid Services. This regions second quarter 2008 results also reflect the sale of two investments discussed previously.  Latin America D&E operating income increased 49% with additional deployments of equipment resulting in increased Sperry Drilling Services and wireline services activity.  Landmark also contributed to the improved results.
Approximately $2.0 billion remains available under the companys share repurchase program.  Since the inception of the program, Halliburton has purchased 89 million shares for a total cost of approximately $3.0 billion.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 4
Technology and Significant Achievements
Halliburton made a number of advances in technology and growth.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 5
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 6
Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the energy industry.  With more than 50,000 employees in approximately 70 countries, the company serves the upstream oil and gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir  from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production through the life of the field. Visit the companys World Wide Web site at .
www.halliburton.com
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements.  These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: consequences of audits and investigations by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity; potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to radioactive sources, explosives, and chemicals; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; unsettled political conditions, war, and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations, and foreign exchange rates and controls; weather-related issues including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by customers; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or natural gas; impairment of oil and gas properties; structural changes in the oil and natural gas industry; increased competition for employees; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses and operations of joint ventures. Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2008, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect the business, results of operations, and financial condition.  Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


