FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20081016143514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
.                                .
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On October 10, 2008, Halliburton entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement among Halliburton, as Borrower, the Banks party thereto, and HSBC Bank (USA) N.A., as Administrative Agent.  The Credit Agreement is for general working capital purposes and expires on April 10, 2009.
 
The Revolving Credit Agreement is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1.
 
.                                .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The exhibit listed below is filed herewith.
 
(c)           Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

    
   
   
   
   
 
 
EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex A
 
 
 
Schedule I                      -           Commitments
Schedule II                     -           Bank Information
Schedule 5.02(a)                        Certain Existing Indebtedness
 
 
Exhibit A                      -           Form of Note
 
Exhibit B-1        -           Form of Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
   
 
Exhibit B-2                   -           Form of Notice of Issuance and Application for Letter of Credit
 
Exhibit C-1                   -           Form of Opinion of Bruce A. Metzinger
 
Exhibit C-2                   -           Form of Opinion of Counsel to the Borrower
 
Exhibit D                      -           Form of Assignment and Acceptance
 
 
 
 
--
 
 
 
 Dated as of October 10, 2008
 
Halliburton Company, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the lenders party hereto and HSBC Bank (USA) N.A. (""), as Agent hereunder, agree as follows:
Borrower
HSBC
 
          DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Section 1.01
 
.  As used in this Agreement, the terms "Borrower" and "HSBC" shall have the meanings set forth above and the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Certain Defined Terms
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.22(e).
Additional Change in Control Commitment Banks
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19.
Additional Commitment Bank
 
"" exists on any date if, and only if, both (I) no "Default" (as such term is defined in the Existing Agreement) exists on such date and no "Event of Default" (as such term is defined in the Existing Agreement) exists on such date and (II) (a) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all "Revolving Credit Advances" and "Letter of Credit Advances" (as such terms are defined in the Existing Agreement) outstanding on such date plus (ii) the aggregate "Available Amount" (as such term is defined in the Existing Agreement) of all "Letters of Credit" (as such term is defined in the Existing Agreement) outstanding on such date equals (b) the greater of (1) $1,200,000,000 less the portion as of such date of the "Revolving Credit Commitments" (as such term is defined in the Existing Agreement) that (x) prior to such date, the Borrower has properly requested to borrow under the Existing Agreement, (y) the Borrower was entitled pursuant to the Existing Agreement to have had funded before such date, and (z) has not been funded by a "Bank" (as such term is defined in the Existing Agreement) under the Existing Agreement (the "") or (2) the aggregate "Revolving Credit Commitments" (as such term is defined in the Existing Agreement) at such date less the Defaulting Lender Amount at such date.
Additional Credit Condition
Defaulting Lender Amount
"" means a Revolving Credit Advance under Section 2.01 or a Letter of Credit Advance under Section 2.03 and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Advance
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.15.
Affected Bank
 
"" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or any Subsidiary of such Person.
Affiliate
 
"" or "" means HSBC solely in its capacity as Agent pursuant to Article VII and any successor in such capacity pursuant to Section 7.06.
Agent
Administrative Agent
 
"" means the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent with HSBC Bank at its office at 1 HSBC Center  26 Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2842, Attn:  Donna L. Riley, Account No. 001940503 or such other account as the Agent shall specify in writing to the Banks.
Agent's Account
th
 
"" means this Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of the date hereof among the Borrower, the Banks and the Agent, as amended from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof.
Agreement
 
"" has the meaning specified in Annex A.
Applicable Commitment Fee Rate
 
"" means, with respect to each Bank, (i) in the case of a Base Rate Advance, such Bank's Domestic Lending Office, and (ii) in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, such Bank's Eurodollar Lending Office.
Applicable Lending Office
 
"", means, for any date, a rate per annum equal to the Credit Default Swap Spread (Base Rate) at such date as specified below, that in no event shall the Applicable Margin (Base Rate) be less than 1.25% per annum or greater than 5.00% per annum.  The "" at any date is the credit default swap mid-rate spread applicable to senior debt of the Borrower with a maturity of one year from such date (the ""), as of the close of business on such date (or if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day), as provided by Markit Group Limited through its website or, if no such Spread (Base Rate) appears on such website, then the Spread (Base Rate), as of the close of business on such date (or if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day), as provided by Bloomberg through its website.  If at any time the Credit Default Swap Spread (Base Rate) is unavailable and the Borrower and the Banks have been unable to agree, each in its own discretion, on an alternative means of determining the Spread (Base Rate), the Applicable Margin (Base Rate) shall be 5.00% per annum.
Applicable Margin (Base Rate)
provided
Credit Default Swap Spread (Base Rate)
Spread (Base Rate)
"" has the meaning specified in Annex A.
Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate)
 
"" means HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., solely in its capacity as sole arranger and book manager.
Arranger
 
"" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Bank and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit D.
Assignment and Acceptance
 
"" of any Letter of Credit means, at any time, the Dollar Equivalent of the maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit at such time (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing).
Available Amount
 
"" means the Issuing Banks and the other banks and other financial institutions party hereto from time to time as lenders, including each Eligible Assignee that becomes a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.08(a), (b) and (d).
Banks
 
"" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum as shall be in effect from time to time which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
 
   (a)
   
   
   
 
the rate of interest announced publicly by HSBC in New York, New York, from time to time, as HSBC's prime rate or base rate; and
 
   (b)
   
   
   
 
the sum (adjusted to the nearest 1/8 of 1% or, if there is no nearest 1/8 of 1%, to the next higher 1/8 of 1%) of (i)  of one percent per annum plus (ii) the rate obtained by dividing (A) the latest three-week moving average of secondary market morning offering rates in the United States for three-month certificates of deposit of major United States money market banks, such three-week moving average (adjusted to the basis of a year of 360 days) being determined weekly on each Monday (or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day) for the three-week period ending on the previous Friday by HSBC on the basis of such rates reported by certificate of deposit dealers to and published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or, if such publication shall be suspended or terminated, on the basis of quotations for such rates received by HSBC from three New York certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by HSBC, by (B) a percentage equal to 100% minus the average of the daily percentages specified during such three-week period by the Federal Reserve Board for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, but not limited to, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for HSBC with respect to liabilities consisting of or including (among other liabilities) three-month Dollar non-personal time deposits in the United States, plus (iii) the average during such three-week period of the annual assessment rates estimated by HSBC for determining the then current annual assessment payable by HSBC to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (or any successor) for insuring Dollar deposits of HSBC in the United States; and
 
   (c)
   
   
   
 
the sum of  of one percent per annum plus the Federal Funds Rate in effect from time to time.
 
"" means an Advance which bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a).
Base Rate Advance
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Banks pursuant to Section 2.01 and, if such Advances are Eurodollar Rate Advances, having Interest Periods of the same duration.
Borrowing
 
"" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advance, on which dealings in Dollar deposits are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
 
"" means that any Person or group of Persons (within the meaning of Section 13 or Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) shall have acquired, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership (with the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the SEC under said Act) of 50% or more of the outstanding shares of equity securities of the Borrower at the time entitled to vote for election of directors (or equivalent governing body) of the Borrower.
Change in Control
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor Federal tax code, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder, in each case as now or hereafter in effect, and any reference to any statutory provision shall be deemed to be a reference to any successor provision or provisions.
Code
 
"" means a letter of credit qualifying as a "commercial letter of credit" under 12 C.F.R. Part 3, Appendix A, Section 3(b)(3)(i) or any successor U.S. Comptroller of the Currency regulation.
Commercial Letter of Credit
 
"" means a Revolving Credit Commitment or a Letter of Credit Commitment.
Commitment
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19.
Commitment Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(a).
Commitment Fee
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19.
Commitment Increase
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(b).
Communications
 
"" means at any time the consolidated stockholders' equity of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis as of such time (excluding treasury stock), determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Worth
 
"", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Revolving Credit Advances of one Type into Revolving Credit Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.09, 2.15 or 2.16.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
 
"" means Citibank, N.A. and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc solely in their capacity as co-syndication agents under this Agreement.
Co-Syndication Agents
 
" means any event or condition which with notice or lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
"Default
 
"" means, on any date, (i) in relation to an amount denominated in a currency other than Dollars, the equivalent in Dollars determined by using the quoted spot rate at which HSBC's principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for such currency in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) on such date and (ii) in relation to an amount denominated in Dollars, such amount.
Dollar Equivalent
 
"" and "" means lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule II hereto or as on file with the Agent or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Bank, or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(c).
Duration Fee
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.22.
Early Maturity Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
 
"" means (i) any Bank, (ii) with the consent of the Issuing Banks (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld), any Affiliate of any Bank and (iii) with the consent of the Agent and the Issuing Banks (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld) and, so long as no Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) or 6.01(e) shall have occurred and be continuing, the Borrower (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), any other Person not covered by clause (i) or (ii) of this definition; , , that neither the Borrower nor any Affiliate of the Borrower shall be an Eligible Assignee.
Eligible Assignee
provided
however
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or other acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or other acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including, without limitation, partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are authorized or otherwise existing on any date of determination.
Equity Interests
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
 
"" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Borrower's controlled group, or under common control with the Borrower, within the meaning of Section 414(a) or (b) of the Internal Revenue Code, and, for purposes of Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code, Section 414(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) the requirements of subsection (1) of Section 4043(b) of ERISA (without regard to subsection (2) of such Section) are met with respect to a contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under  Section 303(k) of ERISA (or Section 302(f) of ERISA, for plan years beginning prior to 2007) shall have been met with respect to any Plan; (g) the adoption of an amendment to a Plan requiring the provision of security to such Plan pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA; or (h) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
ERISA Event
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Federal Reserve Board, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank, the office of such Bank specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule II hereto or as on file with the Agent or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Bank (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Bank as such Bank may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
 
"" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) appearing at Reuters Reference LIBOR01 page (or on any successor thereto or substitute therefor provided by Reuters, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page, as determined by the Agent from time to time, for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to Dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period as the rate for Dollar deposits for a period equal to such Interest Period ( that, if for any reason the rate specified above in this definition does not so appear at Reuters Reference LIBOR01 page (or any successor thereto or substitute therefor provided by Reuters) as the rate for Dollar deposits, the term "Eurodollar Rate" shall mean, for any Interest Period for all Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum, if such rate per annum is not such a multiple) equal to the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars are offered by the principal office of HSBC in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to HSBC's Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of such Borrowing and for a period equal to such Interest Period).
Eurodollar Rate
provided
 
"" means an Advance which bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(b).
Eurodollar Rate Advance
 
"" of any Bank for any Interest Period for all Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing means the reserve percentage applicable during such Interest Period (or if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average of such percentages for those days in such Interest Period during which any such percentage shall be so applicable) under regulations issued from time to time by the Federal Reserve Board for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for such Bank with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.22.
Exercising Banks
 
"" means the Five Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of July 9, 2007 among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and Citicorp North America, Inc., as agent, without taking into effect reductions in or terminations of commitments or any amendments, waivers or other modifications at any time made or to be made thereto; that increases to the "Revolving Credit Commitments" (as such term is defined in the Existing Agreement) shall be taken into effect.
Existing Agreement
provided
 
"" means, for any day, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for such day to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
 
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any successor thereof.
Federal Reserve Board
 
"" means (i) the consolidated balance sheet and other financial statements of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries dated December 31, 2007 included in the Borrower's Form 10-K filed with the SEC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and (ii) the consolidated balance sheet and other financial statements of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries dated June 30, 2008 included in the Borrower's Form 10-Q filed with the SEC for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008.
Financial Statements
 
"" means any lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is freely transferable and convertible into Dollars.
Foreign Currency
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19.
Increase Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19.
Increasing Lender
 
"" means, for any Person, (a) its liabilities for borrowed money or the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than current accounts and salaries payable or accrued in the ordinary course of business), (b) obligations of such Person for borrowed money evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (c) all Indebtedness of others the payment, purchase or other acquisition or obligation of which such Person has assumed, or the payment, purchase or other acquisition or obligation of which such Person has otherwise become directly or contingently liable for and (d) leases required to be capitalized, each determined in accordance with GAAP, that for the avoidance of doubt, Indebtedness shall not include obligations under letter of credit reimbursement agreements so long as such letters of credit remain undrawn.
Indebtedness
provided
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 7.05.
Indemnified Costs
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.04(c).
Indemnified Party
 
"" means the earlier to occur of the initial Revolving Credit Borrowing and the initial issuance of a Letter of Credit hereunder.
Initial Extension of Credit
 
"" means, for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurodollar Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurodollar Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below.  The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two or three months (or, as to any Interest Period, such other period as the Borrower and each of the Banks may agree to for such Interest Period), in each case as the Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period (or, as to any Interest Period, at such other time as the Borrower and the Banks may agree to for such Interest Period), select; , , that
Interest Period
provided
however
 
 (i)
   
  
 
Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
 
     (ii)
   
   
   
 
whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, that if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day;
provided
 
   (iii)
   
   
   
 
 
any Interest Period which begins on the last Business Day of the calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month in which it would have ended if there were a numerically corresponding day in such calendar month; and
 
   (iv)
   
   
   
 
the Borrower may not select an Interest Period for any Advance if the last day of such Interest Period would be later than the date on which the Advances are then payable in full or if any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of selection.
 
"" means each Bank and any of their respective Affiliates, in their capacities as issuing banks for Letters of Credit.
Issuing Bank
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.02(a)(vii).
Joint Venture Debt
 
"" means each Subsidiary of the Borrower (a) that, at any time, directly holds an Equity Interest in any joint venture that is not a Subsidiary of the Borrower and (b) that has no other material assets.
JV Subsidiary
 
"" means the l/c cash collateral deposit account, Account No. 000171832, with HSBC, as securities intermediary and depository bank, in the name of the Borrower but under the sole control and dominion of the Agent and subject to the terms of this Agreement.
L/C Cash Collateral Account
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.06(b)(ii)(A).
L/C Related Documents
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(b).
Letter of Credit
 
"" means an Advance made by any Issuing Bank or any Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c).
Letter of Credit Advance
 
"" of any Issuing Bank means, at any time, the amount set opposite such Issuing Bank's name on Schedule I under the heading "Letter of Credit Commitments" or as reflected for such Issuing Bank in the relevant Assignment and Acceptance to which it is a party, as such amount may be terminated, reduced or increased pursuant to Section 2.05, Section 2.19, Section 2.22, Section 6.01 or Section 8.08.
Letter of Credit Commitment
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(a).
Letter of Credit Group
 
"" means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor, a statutory deemed trust and any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property; , however, that for the avoidance of doubt, the interest of a Person as owner or lessor under charters or leases of property and the rights of setoff of banks shall not constitute a "Lien" on or in respect of the relevant property.
Lien
provided
 
"" means this Agreement and the Notes.
Loan Documents
 
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance or properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Bank under any Loan Document or (c) the ability of the Borrower to perform its Obligations under any Loan Document to which it is or is to be a party.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to its debt ratings business.
Moody's
 
"" means any multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, which is maintained by (or to which there is an obligation to contribute of) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
 
"" means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of any Bank, in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from the Advances owing to such Bank.
Note
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Notice of Issuance and Application for Letter of Credit
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any payment, performance or other obligation of such Person of any kind, including, without limitation, any liability of such Person on any claim, whether or not the right of any creditor to payment in respect of such claim is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured, and whether or not such claim is discharged, stayed or otherwise affected by any proceeding referred to in Section 6.01(e).  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Documents include (a) the obligation to pay principal, interest, Letter of Credit commissions, charges, expenses, fees, attorneys' fees and disbursements, indemnities and other amounts payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document and (b) the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse any amount in respect of any of the foregoing that any Bank, in its sole discretion, may elect to pay or advance on behalf of the Borrower.
Obligation
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.13(b).
Other Taxes
 
"" shall mean the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001, as amended.
Patriot Act
 
"" means the Pension Benefit of Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
 
"" means a letter of credit qualifying as a "performance based standby letter of credit" under 12 C.F.R. Part 3, Appendix A, Section 3(b)(2)(i) or any successor U.S. Comptroller of the Currency regulation.
Performance Letter of Credit
 
"" means Indebtedness and other obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary incurred in connection with the acquisition or construction by the Borrower or such Subsidiary of any property with respect to which:
Permitted Non-Recourse Indebtedness
 
(a)           the holders of such Indebtedness and other obligations agree that they will look solely to the property so acquired or constructed and securing such Indebtedness and other obligations, and neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary (i) provides any direct or indirect credit support, including any undertaking, agreement or instrument that would constitute Indebtedness or (ii) is otherwise directly or indirectly liable for such Indebtedness; and
 
(b)           no default with respect to such Indebtedness or obligations would cause, or permit (after notice or passage of time or otherwise), according to the terms thereof, any holder (or any representative of any such holder) of any other Indebtedness of the Borrower or such Subsidiary to declare a default on such Indebtedness or cause the payment, repurchase, redemption, defeasance or other acquisition or retirement for value thereof to be accelerated or payable prior to any scheduled principal payment, scheduled sinking fund or scheduled maturity.
 
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof or any trustee, receiver, custodian or similar official.
Person
 
"" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(b).
Platform
 
"" of any amount means, with respect to any Bank at any time, such amount times a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such Bank's Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05, 2.22 or 6.01, such Bank's Revolving Credit Commitment as in effect immediately prior to such termination) and the denominator of which is the Revolving Credit Facility at such time (or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05, 2.22 or 6.01, the Revolving Credit Facility as in effect immediately prior to such termination).
Pro Rata Share
 
"" means a Subsidiary that is a special-purpose entity created solely to (i) construct or acquire any asset or project that will be or is financed solely with Project Financing for such asset or project and related equity investments in, loans to, or capital contributions in, such Subsidiary that are not prohibited hereby and/or (ii) own an interest in any such asset or project.
Project Finance Subsidiary
 
"" means Indebtedness and other obligations that (a) are incurred by a Project Finance Subsidiary, (b) are secured by a Lien of the type permitted under clause (iii) of Section 5.02(a) and (c) constitute Permitted Non-Recourse Indebtedness (other than recourse to the assets of, and Equity Interests in, any Project Finance Subsidiary).
Project Financing
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01(i).
Projections
 
"" or "" (in each case, whether or not capitalized) means any interest in any kind of property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or intangible.
Property
asset
 
"" means any special purpose entity created in connection with a Securitization Transaction.
Receivables Subsidiary
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.08(c).
Register
 
"" means Regulation U of the Federal Reserve Board, as the same is from time to time in effect, and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
Regulation U
 
"" means at any time Banks owed or holding at least a majority in interest of the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of the Advances outstanding at such time (with Letter of Credit Advances held by an Issuing Bank being deemed held by each Bank in accordance with such Bank's Pro Rata Share); (ii) the Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding at such time (calculated by reference to each Bank's Pro Rata Share) and (iii) the aggregate Unused Revolving Credit Commitments at such time.
Required Banks
 
"" means each of the chairman and chief executive officer, the president, the chief financial officer, the treasurer, the secretary or any vice president (whether or not further described by other terms, such as, for example, senior vice president or vice president-operations) of the Borrower or, if any such office is vacant, any Person performing any of the functions of such office.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means an Advance by a Bank to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.01 and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Revolving Credit Advance).
Revolving Credit Advance
Type
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made by the Banks.
Revolving Credit Borrowing
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank at any time, the amount set forth opposite such Bank's name on Schedule I hereto under the caption "Revolving Credit Commitment" or, if such Bank has entered into one or more Assignment and Acceptances, set forth for such Bank in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.08(c) as such Bank's "Revolving Credit Commitment", as such amount may be reduced, increased or terminated at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05, Section 2.19, Section 2.22 or Section 6.01.
Revolving Credit Commitment
 
"" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Banks' Revolving Credit Commitments at such time.
Revolving Credit Facility
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Service Group, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. on the date hereof, or any successor to its debt ratings business.
S&P
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereof.
SEC
 
"" means any transfer by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of accounts receivable or interests therein (including, without limitation, all collateral securing such accounts receivable, all contracts and guarantees or other obligations in respect of such accounts receivable, the proceeds of such receivables and other assets which are customarily transferred, or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted, in connection with asset securitizations involving accounts receivable), or grant of a security interest therein, (a) to a trust, in part, directly or indirectly, by the incurrence or issuance by the transferee or any successor transferee of Indebtedness or securities that are to receive payments from, or that represent interests in, the cash flow derived from such accounts receivable or interests, or (b) directly to one or more investors or other purchasers.
Securitization Transaction
 
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
 
" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Margin (Base Rate)."
Spread (Base Rate)"
 
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate)."
Spread (Eurodollar Rate)
 
"" means, for any Bank, the earliest of (i) April 10, 2009, (ii) the date on which the due date of any obligation under the Existing Agreement is accelerated or on which any such obligation otherwise becomes due prior to its stated maturity, (iii) any date on which (a) any Advance or Letter of Credit is outstanding, and (b) the Additional Credit Condition does not exist, unless the Additional Credit Condition does exist on the Business Day that is 5 Business Days following such date and (iv) if such Bank becomes an Exercising Bank, the Early Maturity Date applicable pursuant to Section 2.22.
Stated Termination Date
 
"" of any Person means any corporation (including a business trust), partnership, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock, securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect directors of such corporation or, in the case of any other entity, others performing similar functions (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock, securities or other ownership interests of any other class or classes of such corporation or such other entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person, by such Person and one or more other Subsidiaries of such Person or by one or more other Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.13(a).
Taxes
 
"" means, for any Bank, the Stated Termination Date for such Bank or the earlier date of termination in whole of the Revolving Credit Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or Section 6.01.
Termination Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of Revolving Credit Advance.
Type
 
"" means, with respect to any Bank at any time, (a) such Bank's Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (b) without duplication, the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Credit Advances and Letter of Credit Advances made by such Bank and outstanding at such time (ii) such Bank's Pro Rata Share of (A) the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding at such time and (B) the aggregate principal amount of all Letter of Credit Advances made by the Issuing Banks pursuant to Section 2.03(c) and outstanding at such time.
Unused Revolving Credit Commitment
minus
plus
 
Section 1.02
 
.  In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each means "to but excluding".
Computation of Time Periods
 
Section 1.03
 
.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Banks request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision  amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
 
Section 1.04
 
.  The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Article, Section, Annex, Schedule and Exhibit references are to Articles and Sections of and Annexes, Schedules and Exhibits to this Agreement, unless otherwise specified.  The term "including" shall mean "including, without limitation".
Miscellaneous
 
Section 1.05
 
.  A rating, whether public or private, by S&P or Moody's shall be deemed to be in effect on the date of announcement or publication by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, of such rating or, in the absence of such announcement or publication, on the effective date of such rating and will remain in effect until the announcement or publication of, or (in the absence of such announcement or publication) the effective date of, any change in such rating.  In the event the standards for any rating by Moody's or S&P are revised, or such rating is designated differently (such as by changing letter designations to numerical designations), then the references herein to such rating shall be deemed to refer to the revised or redesignated rating for which the standards are closest to, but not lower than, the standards at the date hereof for the rating which has been revised or redesignated, all as determined by the Required Banks in good faith.  Long-term debt supported by a letter of credit, guaranty or other similar credit enhancement mechanism shall not be considered as senior unsecured long-term debt.  If either Moody's or S&P has at any time more than one rating applicable to senior unsecured long-term debt of any Person, the lowest such rating shall be applicable for purposes hereof.  For example, if Moody's rates some senior unsecured long-term debt of the Borrower Baa1 and other such debt of the Borrower Baa2, the senior unsecured long-term debt of the Borrower shall be deemed to be rated Baa2 by Moody's.
Ratings
 
        AMOUNTS AND TERMS OF THE REVOLVING CREDIT ADVANCES
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Section 2.01
 
.    Each Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Revolving Credit Advances in Dollars to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date for such Bank in an aggregate amount not to exceed such Bank's Unused Revolving Credit Commitment at such time; provided that no Revolving Credit Advance shall be required to be made, except as a part of a Revolving Credit Borrowing that is in an aggregate amount not less than $10,000,000 in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances and $5,000,000 in the case of Base Rate Advances and in an integral multiple of $1,000,000, and each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall consist of Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Banks ratably according to their respective Revolving Credit Commitments.  Within the limits of each Bank's Unused Revolving Credit Commitment in effect from time to time, the Borrower may borrow, prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01.  The Borrower agrees to give a Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.02(a) as to each Revolving Credit Advance.
The Revolving Credit Advances
(a)
 
(b)
 
.  Each Issuing Bank agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to issue letters of credit (collectively, the "", and each a "") for the account of the Borrower (such issuance, and any funding of a draw thereunder, to be made by the Issuing Banks in reliance on the agreements of the other Banks pursuant to Section 2.03) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 10 Business Days prior to the earliest Stated Termination Date for any Bank in an aggregate Available Amount (i) for all Letters of Credit issued by the Issuing Banks not to exceed at any time the aggregate Letter of Credit Commitments at such time all Letter of Credit Advances outstanding at such time, (ii) for all Letters of Credit issued by any Issuing Bank, not to exceed at any time the Letter of Credit Commitment of such Issuing Bank at such time all Letter of Credit Advances owed to such Issuing Bank outstanding at such time, (iii) for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Revolving Credit Commitments of the Banks at such time and (iv) if the Stated Termination Date for all Banks is not the same, then for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Revolving Credit Commitments at such time of those Banks for which the Stated Termination Date is 10 or more Business Days after the stated expiration date of such Letter of Credit.  No Letters of Credit shall have expiration dates later than 10 Business Days prior to the earliest Stated Termination Date for any Bank.  Within the limits referred to above, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b), repay any Letter of Credit Advances resulting from drawings thereunder and request the issuance of additional Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b).
Letters of Credit
Letters of Credit
Letter of Credit
minus
minus
 
Section 2.02
 
.   Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be made on notice in the form of Exhibit B-1  (a ""), given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) (i) on the date of a proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing comprised of Base Rate Advances and (ii) on the third Business Day prior to the date of a proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Bank prompt notice thereof by facsimile.  Each Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be consistent with the requirements of Section 2.01(a) and shall be by facsimile, confirmed immediately in writing, in substantially the form of Exhibit B-1, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (ii) Type of Revolving Credit Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, and (iv) if such Revolving Credit Borrowing is to be comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the initial Interest Period for each such Revolving Credit Advance.  Each Bank shall, before 2:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at its address referred to in Section 8.02, in same day funds, such Bank's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing.  After the Agent's receipt of such funds, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Agent's aforesaid address; that the Agent shall not be required to make such funds available if the applicable conditions set forth in Article III have not been fulfilled.
Making the Revolving Credit Advances
(a)
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
provided
 
   (b)
   
   
   
 
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, at no time shall there be more than ten Revolving Credit Borrowings outstanding; that for  purposes of the limitation set forth in this sentence, all Revolving Credit Borrowings consisting of Base Rate Advances shall constitute a single Revolving Credit Borrowing.
provided
 
(c)
 
Each Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.  In the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that the related Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Bank against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Bank as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing for such Revolving Credit Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Bank to fund the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such Bank as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing when such Revolving Credit Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
 
(d)
 
Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Bank prior to the time of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that such Bank will not make available to the Agent such Bank's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Bank has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount.  If and to the extent that such Bank shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Bank and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Revolving Credit Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Bank, the Federal Funds Rate.  If such Bank shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Bank's Revolving Credit Advance as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing for all purposes.
 
(e)
 
The failure of any Bank to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by it as part of any Revolving Credit Borrowing shall not relieve any other Bank of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Revolving Credit Advance on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, but no Bank shall be responsible for the failure of any other Bank to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such other Bank on the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing.
 
  Section 2.03
   
  
 
.    .  Each Letter of Credit shall be issued upon notice and application, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day (or a later day, if acceptable to each of the Issuing Banks, each in its sole discretion, but in no event later than the first Business Day) prior to the date of the proposed issuance of such Letter of Credit, by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Bank prompt notice thereof.  Each such notice of issuance of a Letter of Credit (a "") shall be given only as a part of a group of Notices of Issuance and Application for Letter of Credit (one for each Bank) given simultaneously to the Agent, with the effect that the Borrower shall request a group (a "", which term shall also include any Letters of Credit issued pursuant to Section 8.08(i) in replacement of any Letter of Credit in such group) of Letters of Credit, each identical (except for the name and address of the Issuing Bank and other non-substantive, ministerial items) and one from each of the Issuing Banks, in a ratable amount (based on their respective Letter of Credit Commitments), shall be consistent with the requirements of Section 2.01(b) and shall be by in writing, or facsimile, in the form of Exhibit B-2, specifying therein the requested (A) date of such issuance (which shall be a Business Day and shall be the same for each initial Letter of Credit within a particular Letter of Credit Group), (B) Available Amount of each Letter of Credit in such Letter of Credit Group (which Available Amounts shall be ratable as contemplated above), (C) expiration date of each such Letter of Credit (which shall be the same for each Letter of Credit within a particular Letter of Credit Group), (D) name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit (which shall be the same for each Letter of Credit within a particular Letter of Credit Group), (E) form of such Letter of Credit (which shall be the same for each Letter of Credit within a particular Letter of Credit Group) and (F) the requested currency of such Letter of Credit (which shall be the same for each Letter of Credit within a particular Letter of Credit Group), if other than Dollars.  If the requested form of such Letter of Credit is acceptable to each of the Issuing Banks, each in its sole discretion, then each Issuing Bank will make such Letter of Credit available to the Borrower at its office referred to in Section 8.02 or as otherwise agreed with the Borrower in connection with such issuance; that no Issuing Bank shall be obligated to issue any Letter of Credit in any currency other than Dollars, but each Issuing Bank (with the approval of all Issuing Banks) shall be permitted to issue any Letter of Credit in any Foreign Currency in its sole discretion if requested by the Borrower; , that no Issuing Bank shall be obligated to issue any Letter of Credit that is not consistent with the requirements of Section 2.01(b); , that no Issuing Bank shall be required to issue any Letter of Credit if the applicable conditions set forth in Article III have not been fulfilled.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Issuing Bank shall issue any Letter of Credit after it has received a notice from the Agent or the Required Banks that a Default has occurred and is continuing, until it receives a subsequent notice from the Agent or the Required Banks that such Default has been cured or waived.
Issuance of and Drawings and Reimbursement Under Letters of Credit
(a)
Request for Issuance
Notice of Issuance and Application for Letter of Credit
Letter of Credit Group
provided
provided
further
provided
further
 
(b)           .  Each Issuing Bank shall furnish (A) to the Agent on the first Business Day of each week a written report summarizing issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the previous week and drawings during such week under all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, (B) to the Agent on the first Business Day of each month a written report summarizing issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the preceding month and drawings during such month under all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank and (C) to the Agent on the first Business Day of each calendar quarter a written report setting forth the average daily aggregate Available Amount during the preceding calendar quarter of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.  The Agent shall promptly deliver such report to the Banks by the means provided for delivery of Communications pursuant to Section 8.02.
Letter of Credit Reports
 
(c)           .  The payment by any Issuing Bank of a draft drawn under any Letter of Credit shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by such Issuing Bank of a Letter of Credit Advance, which shall be a Base Rate Advance, in the Dollar Equivalent amount of such draft.  Upon written demand by any Issuing Bank with an outstanding Letter of Credit Advance, with a copy of such demand to the Agent, each Bank shall purchase from such Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall sell and assign to each such Bank, such Bank's Pro Rata Share of such outstanding Letter of Credit Advance as of the date of such purchase, by making available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank, by deposit to the Agent's Account, in same day funds, an amount equal to the portion of the outstanding principal amount of such Letter of Credit Advance to be purchased by such Bank.  Promptly after receipt thereof, the Agent shall transfer such funds to such Issuing Bank.  The Borrower hereby agrees to each such sale and assignment.  Each Bank agrees to so purchase its Pro Rata Share of an outstanding Letter of Credit Advance on (i) the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by the Issuing Bank which made such Advance, provided that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Business Day, or (ii) the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time.  Upon any such assignment by an Issuing Bank to any Bank of a portion of a Letter of Credit Advance, such Issuing Bank represents and warrants to such other Bank that such Issuing Bank is the legal and beneficial owner of such interest being assigned by it, free and clear of any liens, but makes no other representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to such Letter of Credit Advance, the Loan Documents or the Borrower.  If and to the extent that any Bank shall not have so made its Pro Rata Share of the amount of such Letter of Credit Advance available to the Agent, such Bank agrees to pay to the Agent forthwith on demand its Pro Rata Share of such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand by such Issuing Bank until the date such Bank pays its Pro Rata Share of such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate for its account or the account of Issuing Bank, as applicable.  If such Bank shall pay to the Agent its Pro Rata Share of such amount for the account of such Issuing Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute a Letter of Credit Advance made by such Bank on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Letter of Credit Advance made by such Issuing Bank shall be reduced on such Business Day by such amount so paid in respect of principal.
Drawing and Reimbursement
 
(d)           .  The failure of any Bank to make the Letter of Credit Advance to be made by it on the date specified in Section 2.03(c) shall not relieve any other Bank of its obligation hereunder to make its Letter of Credit Advance on such date, but no Bank shall be responsible for the failure of any other Bank to make the Letter of Credit Advance to be made by such other Bank on such date.
Failure to Make Letter of Credit Advances
 
(e)           .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Borrower agrees that (i) it will not give any Notice of Issuance and Application for Letter of Credit for, and will not otherwise request or seek the issuance of, any Letter of Credit, unless such Letter of Credit requires, as a condition to any drawing thereunder, that the beneficiary thereof make a simultaneous, ratable drawing under each other Letter of Credit within the same Letter of Credit Group, and (ii) it will not request or seek any renewal, increase or other modification to any Letter of Credit, unless such renewal, increase or other modification is approved by all Issuing Banks and applies to all Letters of Credit within the same Letter of Credit Group.
Ratable Treatment
 
Section 2.04
 
    .  The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Bank a commitment fee through the Termination Date for such Bank on the amount of such Bank's Unused Revolving Credit Commitment, (i) from the date of this Agreement in the case of each Bank listed on the signature pages hereof or (ii) from the effective date specified in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Bank, payable quarterly in arrears (within three Business Days after receipt from the Agent of an invoice therefor) for each period ending on the last day of each March, June, September and December hereafter, commencing December 31, 2008, and on the Termination Date for each Bank, at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Commitment Fee Rate (the "").
Fees.
(a)
Commitment Fees
Commitment Fee
 
(b)
 
.  (i) The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of each Bank a commission, payable in arrears quarterly (within three Business Days after receipt from the Agent of an invoice therefor) for each period ending on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing December 31, 2008 and on the Termination Date for each Bank, on such Bank's Pro Rata Share of the average daily aggregate Available Amount during such quarter of all Letters of Credit then outstanding at a rate equal to the Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate) in effect from time to time; , , that with respect to Performance Letters of Credit and Commercial Letters of Credit such commission shall be equal to 50% of such Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate) from time to time.
Letter of Credit Fees, Etc
provided
however
 
   (ii)
 
The Borrower shall pay to each Issuing Bank, for its own account, (A) an issuance fee for each Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank in an amount equal to 0.125% of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit on the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit, payable on such date and (B) such other commissions, fronting fees,  transfer fees and other fees and charges in connection with the issuance or administration of each Letter of Credit as the Borrower and such Issuing Bank shall agree.
 
(c)
 
.  The Borrower shall pay on January 2, 2009, to the Agent for the ratable account of each Bank a duration fee (the "") equal to 0.25% times the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Credit Advances and Letter of Credit Advances outstanding on December 31, 2008 plus (ii) the Available Amount on December 31, 2008 of all Letters of Credit.
Duration Fee
Duration Fee
 
   (d)
   
   
   
  
 
.  The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent, the Arranger, and the Banks such other fees as may be separately agreed to in writing.
Other Fees
 
Section 2.05
 
  The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or reduce ratably in part the Unused Revolving Credit Commitments; provided that each partial reduction shall be in the minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 and in an integral multiple of $5,000,000; provided further, that no such termination or reduction shall be made pursuant to this Section 2.05, unless after giving effect thereto, the Revolving Credit Facility equals or exceeds the aggregate Letter of Credit Commitments of the Issuing Banks.  The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent and an Issuing Bank to terminate in whole or reduce the Letter of Credit Commitment of such Issuing Bank; provided that each partial reduction shall be in the minimum amount of $10,000,000 and in an integral multiple of $5,000,000; provided further that no termination or reduction of the Letter of Credit Commitment of any Issuing Bank shall be made pursuant to this Section 2.05, unless after giving effect thereto, the Letter of Credit Commitment of such Issuing Bank equals or exceeds the sum of the Available Amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank plus the principal amount of all outstanding Letter of Credit Advances relating to any Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank; provided further that no termination of the Letter of Credit Commitment of any Issuing Bank shall be made unless the Letter of Credit Commitments of all Issuing Banks are simultaneously terminated in accordance herewith; provided further that no reduction of the Letter of Credit Commitment of any Issuing Bank shall be made unless the Letter of Credit Commitments of all other Issuing Banks are simultaneously reduced by the same percentage in accordance herewith.  Any termination or reduction of any of the Commitments shall be permanent.
Reduction of Commitments.
 
Section 2.06
 
.    .  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance owing to each Bank on the Stated Termination Date for such Bank or on such earlier date as may be applicable pursuant hereto.
Repayment of Advances; Required Cash Collateral
(a)
Revolving Credit Advances
 
(b)
 
.  (i)  The Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the account of each Issuing Bank and each other Bank that has made a Letter of Credit Advance on the earlier of the third Business Day following the date on which such Letter of Credit Advance is made and the earliest Stated Termination Date then in effect for any Bank the outstanding principal amount of each Letter of Credit Advance made by each of them.
Letter of Credit Advances
 
   (ii)          The Obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and any other agreement or instrument, in each case relating to any Letter of Credit, shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and such other agreement or instrument under all circumstances, including, without limitation, the following circumstances (it being understood that any such payment by the Borrower is without prejudice to, and does not constitute a waiver of, any rights the Borrower might have or might acquire as a result of the payment by any Issuing Bank of any draft or the reimbursement by the Borrower thereof):
 
   
   
   
 
(A)
 
any lack of validity or enforceability of any Loan Document, any Letter of Credit or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto (all of the foregoing being, collectively, the "");
L/C Related Documents
 
(B)
 
any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations of the Borrower in respect of any L/C Related Document or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from all or any of the L/C Related Documents;
 
(C)
 
the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right that the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of a Letter of Credit (or any Persons for which any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any Issuing Bank or any other Person, whether in connection with the transactions contemplated by the L/C Related Documents or any unrelated transaction;
 
(D)
 
any statement or any other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect;
 
(E)
 
payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit;
 
(F)
 
any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any guarantee, for all or any of the Obligations of the Borrower in respect of the L/C Related Documents; or
 
(G)
 
any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including, without limitation, any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower or a guarantor.
 
(c)
 
.  If on any date the sum of the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding on such date plus the aggregate principal amount of Advances outstanding on such date exceeds the Revolving Credit Facility on such date, the Borrower shall, within three Business Days thereafter, (i) prepay Advances in an aggregate principal amount sufficient to reduce the sum of the Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding on such date plus the aggregate principal amount of Advances outstanding on such date to be less than or equal to the Revolving Credit Facility on such date or (ii) if no Advances are outstanding at such time or prepayment pursuant to clause (i) of this sentence does not result in the sum of the Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding on such date plus the aggregate principal amount of Advances outstanding on such date being less than or equal to the Revolving Credit Facility on such date, prepay in full all Advances, if any Advance is outstanding, and pay to the Agent in same day funds at the Agent's office, for deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to such excess less the principal amount of Advances so prepaid, which amount shall be released within three Business Days after notice from the Borrower to the Agent that the sum of the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit plus the aggregate principal amount of Advances outstanding no longer exceeds the Revolving Credit Facility.  If on any date the sum of the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding on such date plus the aggregate principal amount of all Letter of Credit Advances outstanding on such date exceeds the aggregate Letter of Credit Commitments of all Issuing Banks on such date, the Borrower shall, within three Business Days thereafter, pay to the Agent in same day funds at the Agent's office, for deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to such excess which amount shall be released within three Business Days after notice from the Borrower to the Agent that the sum of the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit plus the aggregate principal amount of all Letter of Credit Advances outstanding no longer exceeds the aggregate Letter of Credit Commitments of all Issuing Banks.
Required Payment and Cash Collateral
 
Section 2.07
 
.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest
 
(a)
 
During such periods as such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable Margin (Base Rate) in effect from time to time, payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full; , that any amount of principal of a Base Rate Advance which is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) shall bear interest, from the date on which such amount is due until such amount is paid in full, payable on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of the rate otherwise payable thereon plus 2%.
provided
 
(b)
 
During such periods as such Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate) in effect from time to time, payable on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Revolving Credit Advance shall be Converted or paid in full; , that any amount of principal of a Eurodollar Rate Advance which is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) shall bear interest, payable on demand, (i) from the date on which such amount is due until the end of the Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance, at a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate) in effect from time to time plus 2%, and (ii) from the end of such Interest Period until such amount is paid in full, at a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of the rate of interest in effect from time to time for Base Rate Advances plus 2%.
provided
 
(c)
 
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), the Borrower shall pay simple interest, to the fullest extent permitted by law, on the amount of any interest, fee or other amount (other than principal of Advances which is covered by Sections 2.07(a) and 2.07(b)) payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of the rate of interest in effect from time to time for Base Rate Advances plus 2% per annum.
 
Section 2.08
 
.  The Borrower shall pay to each Bank, so long as such Bank shall be required under regulations of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities, additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance of such Bank during such periods as such Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at an interest rate per annum equal at all times to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the Eurodollar Rate for the Interest Period then in effect for such Eurodollar Rate Advance from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing such Eurodollar Rate by a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage of such Bank for such Interest Period, payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Eurodollar Rate Advance.  Such additional interest shall be determined by such Bank and notified to the Borrower through the Agent.
Additional Interest on Eurodollar Rate Advances
 
Section 2.09
 
.    The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Banks of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(b).
Interest Rate Determination
(a)
 
     (b)
    
   
 
If the Agent is unable to determine the Eurodollar Rate for any Eurodollar Rate Advances:
 
   (i)
   
   
   
 
the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrower and the Banks that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurodollar Rate Advances,
 
   
   (ii)
   
   
   
 
each such Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and
 
   (iii)
   
   
   
 
the obligation of the Banks to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Banks that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
 
     (c)
    
   
 
If, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Required Banks notify the Agent (A) that the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Banks of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Interest Period or (B) that Dollar deposits for the relevant amounts and Interest Period for their respective Advances are not available to them in the London interbank market, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Banks, whereupon
 
   (i)
   
   
   
 
each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and
  
        (ii)
   
   
  
 
the obligation of the Banks to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Banks that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
 
    (d)
   
   
   
 
If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Banks and such Revolving Credit Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into Base Rate Advances (or if such Advances are then Base Rate Advances, will continue as Base Rate Advances).
 
    (e)
   
   
   
 
On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than $10,000,000, such Advances shall automatically Convert into Base Rate Advances, and on and after such date the right of the Borrower to Convert such Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall terminate.
 
(f)
  
 
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) the obligation of the Banks to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended.
 
Section 2.10
 
.  The Borrower shall have no right to prepay any principal amount of any Advance other than as provided in this Section 2.10.  The Borrower may, upon notice given to the Agent before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the first Business Day prior to the date of prepayment in the case of Base Rate Advances or upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, in each case stating the proposed date (which shall be a Business Day) and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amounts of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; provided, however, that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount not less than $10,000,000 in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances and $5,000,000 in the case of Base Rate Advances and in integral multiples of $1,000,000, and after giving effect thereto no Borrowing then outstanding shall have a principal amount of less than $5,000,000; and (y) in the case of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Banks in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(b).
Optional Prepayments
 
Section 2.11
 
.    The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder and under the Notes not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent (except that payments under Section 2.08 shall be paid directly to the Bank entitled thereto) at 1 HSBC Center  26 Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2842, Attn:  Donna L. Riley, in same day funds.  The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal, interest, Duration Fee, Commitment Fees or Letter of Credit fees ratably (except amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.12, Section 2.13 or 2.17 and except that (i) any Bank may receive less than its ratable share of interest to the extent Section 8.06 is applicable to it, (ii) if the Stated Termination Date for all Banks is not the same, then principal payments due pursuant to Section 2.06(a) in respect of the Stated Termination Date for any Bank (but not in respect of payments due before the relevant Stated Termination Date as contemplated by Section 2.06(a)) shall be distributed ratably among all Banks having that same Stated Termination Date (and not to those Banks with a Stated Termination Date occurring later), and (iii) if, in respect of any Change in Control, not all Banks are Exercising Banks, then payments due from the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.22 shall be distributed ratably among all such Exercising Banks (and not to those Banks that are not Exercising Banks)) to the Banks for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Bank to such Bank for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Acceptance and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.08(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Acceptance, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Bank assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.  At the time of each payment of any principal of or interest on any Borrowing to the Agent, the Borrower shall notify the Agent of the Borrowing to which such payment shall apply.  In the absence of such notice the Agent may specify the Borrowing to which such payment shall apply.
Payments and Computations
(a)
th
 
(b)
 
All computations of interest based on the Base Rate (except during such times as the Base Rate is determined pursuant to clause (c) of the definition thereof), of Commitment Fees and of Letter of Credit fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate, the Federal Funds Rate or, during such times as the Base Rate is determined pursuant to clause (c) of the definition thereof, the Base Rate shall be made by the Agent, and all computations of interest pursuant to Section 2.07 shall be made by a Bank, on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or fees are payable.  Each determination by the Agent (or in the case of Section 2.07, by a Bank) of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
 
(c)
 
Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest, Commitment Fees and Letter of Credit fees, as the case may be; , , if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
 
(d)
 
Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Banks hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Bank on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Bank.  If and to the extent that the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Bank shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Bank together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Bank until the date such Bank repays such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
 
 Section 2.12
   
  
 
.    If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change (other than any change by way of imposition or increase of reserve requirements included in the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage) in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation by any governmental authority charged with the interpretation or administration thereof or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Bank of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Advance or of agreeing to issue or of issuing or maintaining or participating in Letters of Credit or of agreeing to make or of making or maintaining Letter of Credit Advances (excluding, for purposes of this Section 2.12, any such increased costs resulting from (x) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.13 shall govern) and (y) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Bank is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof), then the Borrower shall from time to time, within 15 days after demand by such Bank (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Bank additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Bank for such increased cost; provided, however, that the Borrower shall not be required to pay to such Bank any portion of such additional amounts that are incurred more than 90 days prior to any such demand, unless such additional amounts had not been imposed or were not determinable on the date that is 90 days prior to such demand.  A certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the amount of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Bank, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs and Capital Requirements
(a)
 
(b)
 
If following the introduction of or any change in any applicable law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) any Bank determines that compliance by such Bank with any such law or regulation or guideline or request regarding capital adequacy affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Bank or any Person controlling such Bank and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Bank's commitment to lend or to issue or participate in Letters of Credit hereunder and other commitments of such type or the issuance or maintenance of or participation in Letters of Credit (or similar contingent obligations), then, within 15 days after demand by such Bank (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Bank, from time to time as specified by such Bank, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Bank or such Person in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Bank reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Bank's commitment to lend or to issue or participate in Letters of Credit hereunder or to the issuance of or participation in any Letters of Credit; , , that the Borrower shall not be required to pay to such Bank any portion of such additional amounts that are incurred more than 90 days prior to any such demand, unless such additional amounts had not been imposed or were not determinable on the date that is 90 days prior to such demand.  A certificate setting forth in reasonable detail such amounts submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Bank shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
however
 
(c)
  
 
Each Bank shall make reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policies and legal and regulatory restrictions) to select a jurisdiction for its Applicable Lending Office or change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office, as the case may be, so as to avoid the imposition of any increased costs under this Section 2.12 or to eliminate the amount of any such increased cost which may thereafter accrue; that no such selection or change of the jurisdiction for its Applicable Lending Office shall be made if, in the reasonable judgment of such Bank, such selection or change would be disadvantageous to such Bank.
provided
 
Section 2.13
 
.    Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder or under the Notes shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.11, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges and withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the case of each Bank and the Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income (including branch profits), and franchise taxes imposed on or measured by net income, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Bank or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Bank, taxes imposed on its overall net income (including branch profits), and franchise taxes imposed on or measured by net income, by the jurisdiction of such Bank's Applicable Lending Office or principal executive office or any political subdivision thereof, and all liabilities with respect thereto (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as ""), except as may otherwise be required by law.  If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note to any Bank or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased by such amount (an "") as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.13) such Bank or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.  Any such payment by the Borrower shall be made in the name of the relevant Bank or the Agent (as the case may be).
Taxes
(a)
Taxes
Additional Amount
 
  (b)
   
   
 
 
In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any of the Notes (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
 
  (c)
   
   
  
 
The Borrower will indemnify each Bank and the Agent for the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.13) imposed on or paid by such Bank or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and reasonable expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted.  Payments under any indemnification provided for in this Section 2.13(c) shall be made within 30 days from the date such Bank or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor describing such Taxes or Other Taxes in reasonable detail.
 
(d)
 
If the Agent or a Bank reasonably determines that it has finally and irrevocably received a refund in respect of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower, or with respect to which the Borrower has paid Additional Amounts, pursuant to this Section 2.13, it shall within 30 days from the date of such receipt pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent such refund is attributable, as reasonably determined by such Agent or Bank, to such indemnity payments made, or Additional Amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.13 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent or Bank and without interest (other than interest paid by the relevant taxation authority with respect to such refund); , , that the Borrower, upon the request of the Agent or Bank, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus penalties, interest or other charges, if any, imposed by the relevant taxation authority in respect of such repayment) to the Agent or Bank in the event the Agent or Bank is required to repay such refund to the applicable taxation authority.  Nothing contained in this Section 2.13(d) shall interfere with the right of the Agent or any Bank to arrange its tax affairs in whatever manner it determines appropriate nor oblige the Agent or any Bank to claim any tax credit or to disclose any information relating to its tax affairs or any computations in respect thereof or require the Agent or any Bank to do anything that would prejudice its ability to benefit from any other tax relief to which it may be entitled.
provided
however
 
(e)
 
Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower will furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof (or other evidence of payment reasonably satisfactory to the Agent).  In the case of any payment hereunder or under the Notes by or on behalf of the Borrower through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of the Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if the Borrower determines that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, the Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel reasonably acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes imposed by the jurisdiction from which such payment is made.  For purposes of this Section 2.13(e) and Section 2.13(f), the terms "" and "" shall have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the Code.
United States
United States person
 
(f)
 
Each Bank organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, (i) on or prior to the date of the Initial Extension of Credit in the case of each such Bank listed on the signature pages hereof, (ii) on the date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it becomes a Bank, (iii) on or before the date, if any, it changes its Applicable Lending Office, and (iv) from time to time thereafter if reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower or the Agent or promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Bank (but only so long as such Bank remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide the Agent and the Borrower with two original Internal Revenue Service Forms W-8BEN or W-8ECI (or, in the case of a Bank that is entitled to claim exemption from withholding of United States federal income tax under Section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code, (A) a certificate representing that such Bank is not a "bank" for purposes of Section 881(c) of the Code, is not a 10-percent shareholder (within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code) of the Borrower and is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower (within the meaning of Section 864(d)(4) of the Code) and (B) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN), as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, properly completed and duly executed by such Bank, certifying that such Bank is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes (or, in the case of a Bank providing the certificate described in clause (A), certifying that such Bank is a foreign corporation, partnership, estate or trust).  If the forms provided by a Bank at the time such Bank first becomes a party to this Agreement indicate or require a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes for purposes of this Section 2.13 unless and until such Bank provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such forms; , , that if, at the effective date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which a Bank becomes a party to this Agreement (or the date, if any, a Bank changes its Applicable Lending Office), the Bank assignor (or such Bank) was entitled to payments under subsection (a) of this Section 2.13 in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes, subject to the provisions of this subsection (f)) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Bank assignor (or such Bank) on such date.
provided
however
 
   (g)
   
   
   
 
For any period with respect to which a Bank has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form described in subsection (f) above (other than if such failure is due to a change in law, or in the interpretation or application thereof by any governmental authority charged with the interpretation or application thereof, occurring after the date on which a form originally was required to be provided or if such form otherwise is not required under subsection (f) above), such Bank shall not be entitled to indemnification or payment of an Additional Amount under subsection (a) or (c) of this Section 2.13 with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States to the extent such United States Taxes exceed the United States Taxes that would have been imposed had such form been provided; , , that should a Bank become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as such Bank shall reasonably request to assist such Bank to recover such Taxes.
provided
however
 
  (h)
 
Any Bank claiming any indemnity payment or Additional Amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.13 shall use commercially reasonable efforts (consistent with its generally applicable internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to file any certificate or document reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower or to designate a different Applicable Lending Office following the reasonable request in writing of the Borrower if the making of such a filing or change would avoid the need for or reduce the amount of any such indemnity payment or Additional Amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the sole determination of such Bank, require the disclosure of information that the Bank reasonably considers confidential, or be otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank.
 
Section 2.14
 
.  If any Bank shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the principal of or interest on the Advances owing to it (except amounts payable pursuant to Sections 2.08, 2.12, 2.13, 2.17 or 8.08 and except that (i) any Bank may receive less than its ratable share of interest to the extent Section 8.06 is applicable to it, (ii) if the Stated Termination Date for all Banks is not the same, then principal payments due pursuant to Section 2.06(a) in respect of the Stated Termination Date for any Bank (but not in respect of payments due before the relevant Stated Termination Date as contemplated by Section 2.06(a)) shall be distributed ratably among all Banks having that same Stated Termination Date (and not to those Banks with a Stated Termination Date occurring later), and (iii) if, in respect of any Change in Control, not all Banks are Exercising Banks, then payments due from the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.22 shall be distributed ratably among all such Exercising Banks (and not to those Banks that are not Exercising Banks)) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the principal of or interest on the Advances obtained by all the Banks, such Bank shall forthwith purchase from the other Banks such participations in the Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Bank to share the excess payment ratably with each of them, provided, however, that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Bank, such purchase from each Bank shall be rescinded and such Bank shall repay to the purchasing Bank the purchase price to the extent of such Bank's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of the participation purchased from such Bank as a result of such excess payment to (ii) the total amount of such excess payment) of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Bank's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Bank's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Bank) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Bank in respect of the total amount so recovered.  The Borrower agrees that any Bank so purchasing a participation from another Bank pursuant to this Section 2.14 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Bank were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
 
Section 2.15
 
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Bank ("") shall notify the Borrower and the Agent that the introduction of or any change in any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Bank, or its Eurodollar Lending Office, to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, (i) the obligation of the Affected Bank to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall forthwith be suspended (and any request by the Borrower for a Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances shall, as to each Affected Bank, be deemed a request for a Base Rate Advance to be made on the same day as the Eurodollar Rate Advances of the Banks that are not Affected Banks and such Base Rate Advance shall be considered as part of such Borrowing) until the Affected Bank shall notify the Borrower, the Banks and the Agent that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and (ii) forthwith after such notice from an Affected Bank to the Agent and the Borrower, all Eurodollar Rate Advances of such Affected Bank shall be deemed to be Converted to Base Rate Advances (but will otherwise continue to be considered as a part of the respective Borrowings that they were a part of prior to such Conversion); provided, however, that, before making any such demand, such Bank agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurodollar Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Bank or its Eurodollar Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Bank, be otherwise materially disadvantageous to such Bank.  In the event any Bank shall notify the Agent of the occurrence of any circumstance contemplated under this Section 2.15, all payments and prepayments of principal that would otherwise have been applied to repay the Eurodollar Rate Advances that would have been made by such Bank or the Converted Eurodollar Rate Advances shall instead be applied to repay the Base Rate Advances made by such Bank in lieu of such Eurodollar Rate Advances or resulting from the Conversion of such Eurodollar Rate Advances and shall be made at the time that payments on the Eurodollar Rate Advances of the Banks that are not Affected Banks are made.  Each Bank that has delivered a notice of illegality pursuant to this Section 2.15 above agrees that it will notify the Borrower as soon as practicable if the conditions giving rise to the illegality cease to exist.
Illegality
Affected Bank
 
Section 2.16
 
.  The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.02(b), 2.09 and 2.15, Convert all Advances of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Advances of the other Type; provided, however, that (i) any Conversion of any Eurodollar Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advances, except as provided in Section 2.15, and (ii) Advances comprising a Borrowing may not be Converted into Eurodollar Rate Advances if the outstanding principal amount of such Borrowing is less than $10,000,000 or if any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) shall have occurred and be continuing on the date the related notice of Conversion would otherwise be given pursuant to this Section 2.16.  Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurodollar Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance.  Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.  If any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) shall have occurred and be continuing on the third Business Day prior to the last day of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower agrees to Convert all such Advances into Base Rate Advances on the last day of such Interest Period.
Conversion of Advances
 
Section 2.17
 
.  In the event that any Bank shall claim payment of any increased costs pursuant to Section 2.12 or the Borrower is required to pay any Additional Amounts, Taxes or Other Taxes to or on account of any Bank pursuant to Section 2.13, or any Bank exercises its rights under Section 2.15, or if any Bank fails to execute and deliver a consent, amendment or waiver to this Agreement requested by the Borrower by the date specified by the Borrower (or gives the Borrower written notice prior to such date of its intention not to do so), the Borrower shall have the right, if no Default or Event of Default then exists, to (a) replace such Bank with an Eligible Assignee in accordance with Section 8.08(a), (b) and (d) (including execution of an appropriate Assignment and Acceptance); that such Eligible Assignee (i) shall unconditionally offer in writing (with a copy to the Agent) to purchase on a date therein specified all of such Bank's rights hereunder and interest in the Advances owing to such Bank and the Note held by such Bank without recourse at the principal amount of such Note plus interest, Duration Fees, Commitment Fees and Letter of Credit fees accrued thereon to the date of such purchase and (ii) shall execute and deliver to the Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, as assignee, pursuant to which such Eligible Assignee becomes a party hereto with a Commitment equal to that of the Bank being replaced (plus, if such Eligible Assignee is already a Bank, the amount of its Commitment prior to such replacement), , further, that no Bank or other Person shall have any obligation to increase its Commitment or otherwise to replace, in whole or in part, any Bank or (b) remove such Bank without replacing it by (x) giving notice to such Bank and the Agent of such removal and (y) simultaneously with such notice paying to the Agent for the account of such Bank all principal owed to such Bank, all accrued interest, Duration Fees, Commitment Fees and Letter of Credit fees owed to such Bank, all requested costs accruing to the date of removal which the Borrower is obligated to pay to such Bank under Section 8.04 and all other amounts owed by the Borrower to such Bank under this Agreement; that the Borrower may not remove a Bank pursuant to this clause (b) if the aggregate Commitments of all Banks so removed would exceed $150,000,000 or, if immediately after giving effect to such removal and payment, the aggregate Unused Revolving Credit Commitments of the Banks not so removed would be less than zero; further that if the Bank being replaced or removed pursuant to this sentence is an Issuing Bank, the Borrower shall take such steps (which may include delivery of cash collateral) requested by such Issuing Bank to fully protect such Issuing Bank from any loss, cost, expense or liability related to or in connection with any Letter of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.  Upon satisfaction of the requirements for replacement set forth in the first sentence of this Section 2.17, payment to such Bank of the purchase price in immediately available funds by the Eligible Assignee replacing such Bank, execution of such Assignment and Acceptance by such Bank (which Bank shall execute such Assignment and Acceptance contemporaneously with or prior to the payment of all amounts required to be paid to it pursuant to this sentence), such Eligible Assignee and the Agent, the payment by the Borrower of all requested costs accruing to the date of purchase which the Borrower is obligated to pay under Section 8.04 and all other amounts owed by the Borrower to such Bank under this Agreement (other than Duration Fees, Commitment Fees and Letter of Credit fees accrued for the account of such Bank and the principal of and interest on the Advances of such Bank purchased by such Eligible Assignee) and notice by the Borrower to the Agent that such payment has been made, such Eligible Assignee shall constitute a "Bank" hereunder with a Commitment as so specified and the Bank being so replaced shall no longer constitute a "Bank" hereunder except that the rights under Sections 2.08, 2.12, 2.13 and 8.04 of the Bank being so replaced shall continue with respect to events and occurrences occurring before or concurrently with its ceasing to be a "Bank" hereunder.  If, however, such Eligible Assignee fails to purchase such rights and interest on such specified date in accordance with the terms of such offer or such Eligible Assignee or the Agent fails to execute the relevant Assignment and Acceptance, the Borrower shall continue to be obligated to pay the increased costs to such Bank pursuant to Section 2.12 or the additional amounts pursuant to Section 2.13, as the case may be.  Upon satisfaction of the requirements for removal set forth in the first sentence of this Section 2.17, the Bank being so removed shall no longer constitute a "Bank" hereunder except that the rights under Sections 2.08, 2.12, 2.13 and 8.04 of the Bank being so removed shall continue with respect to events and occurrences occurring before or concurrently with its ceasing to be a "Bank" hereunder.  
Replacement or Removal of Bank
provided
provided
provided
provided
 
Section 2.18
 
.  Each Bank shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Bank resulting from each Advance owing to such Bank from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Bank from time to time hereunder.  The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Bank to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness is required or appropriate in order for such Bank to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Bank, the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Bank, with a copy to the Agent, a Note in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, payable to the order of such Bank in a principal amount equal to the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Bank.  All references to Notes in the Loan Documents shall mean Notes, if any, to the extent issued hereunder.
Evidence of Indebtedness
 
 Section 2.19
   
 
 
.  (a)  Subject to Section 2.19(e), the Borrower may, at any time, and from time to time, by notice to the Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $200,000,000 (the "Commitment Increase") to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the Stated Termination Date for any Bank (the "Increase Date") as specified in the related notice to the Agent; provided, however that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments exceed $500,000,000, (ii) such request shall be for a minimum of $10,000,000, (iii) on the date of the request by the Borrower for the Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date, the applicable conditions set forth in Article III shall be satisfied, and (iv) the Borrower shall, simultaneously with the Commitment Increase, add one or more Additional Commitment Banks or one or more Increasing Lenders or any combination thereof (as more fully described in clauses (b) and (c) of this Section 2.19).
Increase in the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments
 
(b)
 
The Agent shall promptly notify the Banks of a request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii), if the Borrower requests that the Banks participate in the Commitment Increase, the date specified by the Agent (in consultation with the Borrower) by which Banks wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Revolving Credit Commitments and their respective Letter of Credit Commitment (the "") (which shall in no event be more than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice).  Each Bank that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "") shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Revolving Credit Commitment and its Letter of Credit Commitment; that each Increasing Lender shall increase its Revolving Credit Commitment by a minimum of $10,000,000 and its Letter of Credit Commitment by an amount equal to such increase in its Revolving Credit Commitment.  The Agent shall notify the Borrower of the Banks' responses to each request made hereunder.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
provided
 
(c)
 
With the approval of the Agent (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Borrower shall have the right to add as "Banks" under this Agreement any Person that is not already a Bank hereunder (each as ""); and such Person shall become a Bank hereunder; if (i) such Additional Commitment Bank shall have entered into an agreement with the Borrower that (x) provides that such Person expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Bank, (y) sets forth such Person's Applicable Lending Office and (z) a copy of such agreement is promptly delivered to the Agent, and (ii) such Additional Commitment Bank shall undertake a Revolving Credit Commitment for a minimum of $10,000,000 and a Letter of Credit Commitment in an amount equal to such Revolving Credit Commitment.
Additional Commitment Bank
 
(d)
 
If the Revolving Credit Facility is increased in accordance with this Section, the Agent and the Borrower shall determine the final allocation of such increase.  The Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Banks of the final allocation of such increase prior to such Increase Date.  On each Increase Date, the Agent shall notify the Banks and the Borrower, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Additional Commitment Bank and each Increasing Lender on such date.
 
(e)
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.19, no increase of any Commitment that includes the addition of an Additional Commitment Bank shall be effected pursuant to this Section 2.19 without the consent of the Agent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld).
 
(f)
 
On the Increase Date, the Borrower will cause each outstanding Letter of Credit issued by an Issuing Bank to be delivered to such Issuing Bank and canceled simultaneously with such Issuing Bank, any Additional Commitment Bank and any Increasing Lender issuing substantially identical replacement Letters of Credit in the aggregate amount of the canceled Letter of Credit, except that the replacement Letters of Credit may be dated the date of such issuance and each such replacement Letter of Credit shall be in an amount that reflects that each Letter of Credit within each Letter of Credit group is in a ratable amount (based on the respective Letter of Credit Commitments of the Banks).
 
 Section 2.20
   
  
 
.]
[Intentionally deleted
 
 Section 2.21
   
 
 
 .]
[Intentionally deleted
 
  Section 2.22
 
  (a) If a Change in Control occurs, (i) the Borrower shall promptly notify the Agent (which shall promptly notify the Banks) of such occurrence and specify in such notice a date (the "") on which the matters referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.22(a) shall occur as to each Bank, at the option of such Bank, which date shall be any Business Day not earlier than 60 days after, and not later than 90 days after, the Borrower gives such notice, (ii) any Bank may, at its sole option, elect to require the following to occur on the Early Maturity Date: (a) termination of its Revolving Credit Commitment, if any, (b) payment in full by the Borrower of all Obligations owed to such Bank, and (c) grant by the Borrower of a first priority perfected security interest in, and delivery by the Borrower to each Issuing Bank, for such Issuing Bank's sole benefit, of, an amount in Dollars and in same day funds equal to such Bank's Pro Rata Share of all outstanding Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to be held as cash collateral by such Issuing Bank under the sole control and dominion of such Issuing Bank and subject to the terms of this Agreement; that any such election shall elect all (and not less than all) of the actions referred to in such clauses (a), (b) and (c), and (iii) any Issuing Bank may, at its sole option, elect to require the following to occur on the Early Maturity Date: (x) termination of its Letter of Credit Commitment, if any, (y) payment in full by the Borrower of all Obligations owed to such Issuing Bank, and (z) grant by the Borrower of a first priority perfected security interest in, and delivery by the Borrower to such Issuing Bank, for such Issuing Bank's sole benefit, of, an amount in Dollars and in same days funds equal to the Available Amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank (but without duplication of amounts, if any, delivered in respect of such Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 2.22(a)(ii)(c)), to be held as cash collateral by such Issuing Bank under the sole control and dominion of such Issuing Bank and subject to the terms of this Agreement; that any such election shall elect all (and not less than all) of the actions referred to in such clauses (x), (y) and (z).  Any Bank that is also an Issuing Bank and elects to exercise its rights under clause (ii) or (iii) of this Section 2.22(a) shall elect to exercise its rights under both such clauses.  
Change in Control.
Early Maturity Date
provided
 
provided
 
(b)           Any Bank (an "") may exercise its rights pursuant to Section 2.22(a) by giving the Agent and the Borrower a written notice of such exercise not earlier than 20 days after, and not later than 40 days after, such Bank's receipt of a notice from the Agent under Section 2.22(a) (but the failure to so exercise such rights in respect of any Change in Control shall not impair the exercise of any such rights in respect of any other Change in Control).
Exercising Bank
 
(c)           On the relevant Early Maturity Date, each Exercising Bank's Revolving Credit Commitment shall terminate, and the Borrower shall (i) pay in full all Obligations owed to such Bank hereunder, including all of such Bank's outstanding Advances together with interest thereon accrued to such Early Maturity Date and any amounts payable pursuant to subsection 8.04(b), all Commitment Fees, Duration Fee, and Letter of Credit fees accrued to such Early Maturity Date with respect to such Bank's Revolving Credit Commitment and all amounts then owing to such Bank pursuant to Sections 2.08, 2.12, 2.13 and 8.04, (ii) grant the security interest and deliver to the relevant Issuing Banks the respective amounts contemplated by clause (ii)(c) of Section 2.22(a) and (iii) if immediately after giving effect to such termination and payment, the sum of the aggregate Available Amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit plus the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Letter of Credit Advances would exceed the Revolving Credit Facility, pay to the Agent in same day funds at the Agent's office, for deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to such excess; provided that such termination of such Bank's Revolving Credit Commitment shall not occur until the requirements of clause (ii) of this sentence and this clause (iii) are satisfied, but effective as of the Early Maturity Date such Bank shall have no further obligation to make any Revolving Credit Advance, no obligation to make Letter of Credit Advances in respect of Letters of Credit issued after such Early Maturity Date and no obligation to purchase any share or portion of any Letter of Credit Advance in respect of Letters of Credit issued after such Early Maturity Date.  Upon termination of such Bank's Revolving Credit Commitment in accordance with this Section 2.22(c), such Bank shall cease to be a party hereto, except that (I) rights of such Bank under Sections 2.08, 2.12, 2.13 and 8.04 shall continue with respect to events and occurrences occurring before or on such Early Maturity Date, (II) the obligations of such Bank under Section 7.05 shall continue as to events, actions and circumstances arising on or prior to such Early Maturity Date and (III) such Bank shall be liable to each Issuing Bank for such Bank's ratable share of any loss incurred by such Issuing Bank as a result of in the collateral provided pursuant to this Section 2.22 to such Issuing Bank being inadequate for any reason, but no Issuing Bank, solely in its capacity as such, shall be liable to another Issuing Bank under this clause (III).  Nothing contained in this Section 2.22 shall impair the obligation of the Borrower to pay any amount owing to the Banks hereunder when due prior to an Early Maturity Date.
 
(d)           On the relevant Early Maturity Date, such Exercising Bank's Letter of Credit Commitment shall terminate, and the Borrower shall (i) pay in full all Obligations owed to such Issuing Bank, including all of such Issuing Bank's outstanding Advances together with interest thereon accrued to such Early Maturity Date and any amounts payable pursuant to subsection 8.04(b), all Letter of Credit fees and all amounts then owing to such Issuing Bank pursuant to Sections 2.12, 2.13 and 8.04 and (ii) grant the security interest and deliver to such Issuing Bank the amount contemplated by clause (z) of Section 2.22(a).  Nothing contained in this Section 2.22 shall impair the obligation of the Borrower to pay any amount owing to the Issuing Banks hereunder when due prior to an Early Maturity Date.
 
(e)           The Borrower shall have the right, on or before the Early Maturity Date, to replace each Exercising Bank with, and add as "Banks" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an "") as provided in Section 8.08, each of which Additional Change in Control Commitment Banks shall have entered into an Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Additional Change in Control Commitment Bank shall, effective as of such Early Maturity Date, undertake a Revolving Credit Commitment or Letter of Credit Commitment, as the case may be (and, if any such Additional Change in Control Commitment Bank is already a Bank, its Revolving Credit Commitment or Letter of Credit Commitment, as the case may be, shall be in addition to any other Revolving Credit Commitment or Letter of Credit Commitment, as the case may be, of such Bank hereunder on such date).
Additional Change in Control Commitment Bank
 
            CONDITIONS OF LENDING
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Section 3.01
 
  This Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "Effective Date") on which the Agent shall have received a counterpart of this Agreement duly executed by the Borrower and a counterpart of, or a copy of a signature page to, this Agreement duly executed by all of the Banks and the following additional conditions precedent shall have been satisfied, except that Section 2.04(a) shall become effective as of the first date on which the Agent shall have received counterparts of (or, in the case of any Bank, a copy of a signature page to) this Agreement duly executed by the Borrower and all of the Banks:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness
.
 
     (a)
   
   
   
  
 
The Borrower shall have notified the Agent in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
 
 (b)
   
 
 
The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent:
 
     (i)
   
   
   
   
   
 
The Notes to the order of the Banks to the extent requested by any Bank pursuant to Section 2.18.
 
     (ii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving each Loan Document, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate or organizational action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to each Loan Document.
 
     (iii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
A certificate of the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign each Loan Document and the other documents to be delivered by the Borrower hereunder.
 
     (iv)
   
   
   
   
   
 
A certificate of an officer of the Borrower stating the respective ratings by each of S&P and Moody's of the senior unsecured long-term debt of the Borrower as in effect on the Effective Date.
 
     (v)
   
   
   
   
   
 
[Intentionally deleted.]
 
     (vi)
   
   
   
   
   
 
A favorable opinion of Bruce A. Metzinger, Assistant Secretary and Assistant General Counsel for the Borrower, in substantially the form of Exhibit C-1 hereto.
 
     (vii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
A favorable opinion of Baker Botts LLP, counsel for the Borrower, in substantially the form of Exhibit C-2 hereto.
 
     (viii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
A favorable opinion of Bracewell & Giuliani LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent.
 
(c)
  
 
On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
 
     (i)
   
   
   
   
   
 
The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
 
     (ii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default or an Event of Default.
 
   (d)
   
   
   
 
All accrued fees and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Arranger shall have been paid (including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Arranger for which invoices have been submitted).
 
    (e)
 
The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for which invoices have been submitted).
 
Section 3.02
 
  The obligation of each Bank to make an Advance (other than a Letter of Credit Advance made by an Issuing Bank or a Revolving Credit Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) (including, without limitation, the initial Revolving Credit Advance) and each Issuing Bank to issue or renew Letters of Credit (including the initial Letter of Credit), each Commitment Increase and each amendment of a Letter of Credit that has the effect of increasing the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit shall be subject to the conditions precedent that on the date of such Advance, such Commitment Increase or such issuance, renewal or increase of a Letter of Credit, the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing, Notice of Issuance and Application for Letter of Credit, request for a Commitment Increase or request for increase of a Letter of Credit and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Advance, or of such Commitment Increase, such Letter of Credit or of the renewal or increase of such Letter of Credit shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Advance, such Commitment Increase or such issuance, renewal or increase of a Letter of Credit such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Revolving Credit Advance and Each Issuance, Renewal and Increase of Each Letter of Credit
.
 
(a)
 
the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the date of such Revolving Credit Advance, such Commitment Increase or such issuance, renewal or increase of a Letter of Credit (other than those representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01(e) and Section 4.01(f) and those other representations and warranties that expressly relate solely to a specific earlier date, which shall remain correct as of such earlier date) before and after giving effect to such Advance, Commitment Increase or issuance, renewal or increase and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date,
 
   (b)
   
   
   
 
no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Advance, such Commitment Increase or such issuance, renewal or increase or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, which constitutes a Default or an Event of Default,
 
   (c)
   
   
   
 
there exists no request or directive issued by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency, injunction, stay, order, litigation or proceeding purporting to affect or calling into question the legality, validity or enforceability of any Loan Document or the consummation of any transaction (including any Advance or proposed Advance, Commitment Increase, proposed Commitment Increase, issuance, renewal or increase of a Letter of Credit or proposed issuance, renewal or increase of a Letter of Credit) contemplated hereby, and
 
   (d)
   
   
   
 
the Additional Credit Condition exists on the date of such Advance or such issuance, renewal or increase.
 
Section 3.03
 
 
  For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, the Agent, the Arranger and each Bank shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to such Persons unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Person prior to the date that the Borrower, by notice to the Agent, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto.  The Agent shall promptly notify the Banks and the Borrower of the occurrence of the Effective Date, which notice shall be conclusive and binding.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
.
 
          REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 Section 4.01
   
  
 
  The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
.
 
   (a)
   
   
   
 
The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all requisite organizational power and authority to own its properties, to conduct its business as now being conducted and to execute, deliver and perform each Loan Document to which it is or is to be a party, except for any failures to be so organized, existing, qualified to do business or in good standing or to have such power and authority as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
   (b)
   
   
   
 
The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each Loan Document and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (including, without limitation, each Revolving Credit Borrowing and issuance or renewal of a Letter of Credit hereunder and the use of the proceeds thereof) and the transactions contemplated thereby (i) are within the Borrower's corporate power, (ii) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and (iii) do not contravene (A) the Borrower's certificate of incorporation or by-laws, (B) any law, rule, regulation, order, writ, injunction or decree, or (C) any contractual restriction under any material agreements binding on or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any other contractual restriction the contravention of which would have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
   (c)
   
   
   
 
No authorization, approval, consent, license or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority, regulatory body or other Person is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each Loan Document to which it is or is to be a party, or for the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (including, without limitation, each Revolving Credit Borrowing and issuance or renewal of a Letter of Credit hereunder and the use of the proceeds thereof) and the transactions contemplated thereby, except (i) consents, authorizations, filings and notices which have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (ii) approvals that would be required under agreements that are not material agreements and (iii) as otherwise permitted by the Loan Documents.
 
   (d)
   
   
   
 
This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally.
 
   (e)
   
   
   
 
The Financial Statements referred to in clause (i) of the definition herein of Financial Statements have been reported on by KPMG LLP and fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries as at December 31, 2007 and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the year then ended, all in accordance with GAAP.  The Financial Statements referred to in clause (ii) of the definition herein of Financial Statements fairly present in all material respects, subject to year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes, the consolidated financial position of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries as at June 30, 2008 and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the six months then ended, all in accordance with GAAP.  Since December 31, 2007 through the date hereof there has been no material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance or properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, except as disclosed in any filing by the Borrower with the SEC on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q or Form 8-K not less than five days prior to the date hereof.
 
   (f)
   
   
   
 
As of the date hereof, except as disclosed in any filing by the Borrower with the SEC on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q or Form 8-K not less than five days prior to the date hereof, there is no litigation, investigation or proceeding pending or, to the Borrower's knowledge, threatened against or affecting the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any of its or their respective rights or properties before any court or by or before any arbitrator or governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality, domestic or foreign, (i) that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that in any manner draws into question or purports to affect any transaction contemplated hereby or the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Borrower's obligations or the rights and remedies of the Banks relating to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
 
   (g)
   
   
   
 
Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U).  Following the application of the proceeds of each Advance and each Letter of Credit, (i) not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Borrower that are subject to any arrangement with the Agent or any Bank (herein or otherwise) whereby the Borrower's right or ability to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of assets is in any way restricted (or pursuant to which the exercise of any such right is or may be cause for accelerating the maturity of all or any portion of the Advances or any other amount payable hereunder or under any such other arrangement), will be margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U); and (ii) not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries that are subject to any arrangement with the Agent  or any Bank (herein or otherwise) whereby the right or ability of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of assets is in any way restricted (or pursuant to which the exercise of any such right is or may be cause for accelerating the maturity of all or any portion of the Advances or any other amount payable hereunder or under any such other arrangement), will be any such margin stock.  No proceeds of any Advance or any Letter of Credit will be used in any manner that is not permitted by Section 5.02.
 
   (h)
   
   
   
 
The Borrower is not an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
   (i)
   
   
   
 
No statement or information contained in this Agreement or any other document, certificate or statement furnished to the Agent or the Banks by or on behalf of the Borrower for use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Notes (as modified or supplemented by other information furnished) contains as of the date such statement, information, document or certificate was so furnished any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made; , , that, with respect to any such information, exhibit or report consisting of statements, estimates, pro forma financial information, forward-looking statements and projections regarding the future performance of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (""), no representation or warranty is made other than that such Projections have been prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
provided
however
Projections
 
   (j)
   
   
   
 
Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in violation of any laws relating to terrorism or money laundering, including, without limitation, the Patriot Act, except to the extent such violation could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
          COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Section 5.01
 
So long as any Advance or any other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit shall be outstanding or any Bank or Issuing Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will, unless the Required Banks shall otherwise consent in writing:
Affirmative Covenants
.  
 
   (a)
   
   
   
 
.  Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, with all applicable law, rules, regulations and orders (including, without limitation, ERISA and environmental laws and permits) except to the extent that failure to so comply (in the aggregate for all such failures) could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
 
   (b)
   
   
   
 
.  (i) Preserve and maintain and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain
Preservation of Corporate or Organizational Existence, Etc
(unless, in the case of any Subsidiary, the Borrower or such Subsidiary determines that such preservation and maintenance is no longer necessary in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole), its corporate or organizational existence, rights (charter and statutory), franchises, permits, licenses, approvals and privileges in the jurisdiction of its organization; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may consummate any merger, consolidation conveyance, transfer, lease or disposition permitted under Section 5.02(b); and that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right, permit, license, approval, privilege, franchise or, solely in the case of Subsidiaries, existence, if the failure to do so would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and (ii) qualify and remain qualified and cause each of its Subsidiaries to qualify and remain qualified, as a foreign organization in each jurisdiction in which qualification is necessary or desirable in view of its business and operations or the ownership of its Properties, except where the failure to so qualify or remain qualified could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to give rise to a Material Adverse Effect.
 
provided
however
provided
further
 
   (c)
   
   
   
 
.  Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, within 90 days after becoming due or, in the case of taxes, assessments, charges and like levies, if later, prior to the date on which penalties are imposed for such unpaid taxes, assessments, charges and like levies (i) all taxes, assessments, charges and like levies levied or imposed upon it or upon its income, profits or Property and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its Property; that neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary shall be required to pay and discharge any such tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim if (1) the failure to do so (in the aggregate for all such failures) could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (2) the same is being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and reserves, if required by GAAP, have been established in conformity with GAAP.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
 
   (d)
   
   
   
 
.  Furnish to the Agent:
Reporting Requirements
 
     (i)
   
   
   
   
   
 
not later than 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, (1) the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter and the consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, all in reasonable detail, (2) a copy of the Borrower's Form 10-Q for such quarter as filed with the SEC and (3) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement;
 
     (ii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
not later than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, (1) copies of the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year and audited consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries for such fiscal year, (2) a copy of the Borrower's Form 10-K for such year as filed with the SEC and (3) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement;
 
     (iii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
within five Business Days after filing with the SEC, copies of all registration statements (other than on Form S-8), proxy statements, Forms 8-K (other than press releases) and Schedules 13-D filed by, or in respect of, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries with the SEC;
 
     (iv)
   
   
   
   
   
 
as soon as possible, and in any event within ten days after any Responsible Officer has obtained knowledge of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, written notice thereof setting forth details of such Default or Event of Default and the actions that the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
     (v)
   
   
   
   
   
 
promptly (and in any event within five Business Days) after any change in, or withdrawal or termination of, the rating of any senior unsecured long-term debt of the Borrower by S&P or Moody's, notice thereof;
 
     (vi)
   
   
   
   
   
 
promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that the Borrower sends to any of its holders of common stock; and
 
   
     (vii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
such other information as any Bank through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
 
Information required to be delivered pursuant to Sections 5.01(d)(i) or 5.01(d)(ii) shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which the Borrower provides notice to the Agent that such information has been posted on the Borrower's website on the Internet at www.halliburton.com, at sec.gov/edaux/searches.htm or at another website identified in such notice and accessible by the Banks without charge; that the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of the information referred to in such Sections to the Agent for distribution to (x) any Bank to which the above referenced websites are for any reason not available if such Bank has so notified the Borrower and (y) any Bank that has notified the Borrower that it desires paper copies of all such information; that the Agent shall notify the Banks as provided in Section 8.02 of any materials delivered pursuant to this Section 5.01(d) (other than clauses (iii) and (vi) hereof).  Information required to be delivered pursuant to Sections 5.01(d)(iii) or 5.01(d)(vi) shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date when posted on a website as provided in the preceding sentence.
provided
provided
further
 
   (e)
   
   
  
 
.  At any reasonable time and from time to time, in each case upon reasonable notice to the Borrower and subject to any applicable restrictions or limitations on access to any facility or information that is classified or restricted by contract or by law, regulation or governmental guidelines, permit each Bank to visit and inspect the properties of the Borrower or any material Subsidiary of the Borrower, and to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of the Borrower and its material Subsidiaries and discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and its material Subsidiaries with its and their officers and independent accountants; provided, however, that advance notice of any discussion with such independent public accountants shall be given to the Borrower and the Borrower shall have the opportunity to be present at any such discussion.
Inspections
 
   (f)
   
   
   
 
.  Keep proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each Subsidiary in accordance with GAAP on a consolidated basis.
Keeping of Books
 
   (g)
   
   
   
 
.  Maintain and preserve, and cause each of its material Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its material properties that are used or useful in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its material Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
 
   (h)
   
   
   
 
.  Conduct, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to conduct, all transactions otherwise permitted under this Agreement with any of their Affiliates on terms that are fair and reasonable and, if a comparable arm's-length transaction is known by the Borrower, no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than it would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate; , , that the foregoing restriction shall not apply to
Transactions with Affiliates
provided
however
 
     (i)
   
   
   
   
   
 
transactions between or among the Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
 
     (ii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
transactions or payments pursuant to any employment arrangements or employee, officer or director benefit plans or arrangements entered into by   the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business;
 
     (iii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
to the extent permitted by law, customary loans, advances, fees and compensation paid to, and indemnity provided on behalf of, officers, directors, employees or consultants of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
 
     (iv)
   
   
   
   
   
 
transactions pursuant to any contract or agreement in effect on the date hereof, as the same may be amended, modified or replaced from time to time, so long as any such contract or agreement as so amended, modified or replaced is, taken as a whole, no less favorable to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in any material respect than the contract or agreement as in effect on the date hereof; or
 
     (v)
   
   
   
   
   
 
any transaction or series of transactions between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any of their joint ventures, that (a) such transaction or series of transactions is in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices of the Borrower, and/or its Subsidiaries and their joint ventures and (b) such Affiliate transaction involves aggregate consideration paid to such Affiliate not in excess of $35 million.
provided
 
Section 5.02
 
.  So long as any Advance or any other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall remain unpaid, any Letter of Credit shall be outstanding or any Bank or Issuing Bank shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will not, without the written consent of the Required Banks:
Negative Covenants
 
   (a)
   
   
   
 
.  (x) Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its Properties whether now owned or hereafter acquired to secure Indebtedness or reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit, or (y) except for collateral assignments, which are governed by Section 5.02 (a)(x), assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any accounts or other right to receive income, except:
Liens, Etc
 
     (i)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Liens incurred pursuant to, and assignments made in connection with, Securitization Transactions;
 
     (ii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Liens on or with respect to any of the properties of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries existing on the date hereof;
 
     (iii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
(A) Liens upon or in property acquired (including acquisitions through merger or consolidation) or constructed or improved by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries including general tangibles, proceeds and improvements, accessories and upgrades thereto and created contemporaneously with, or within 12 months after, such acquisition or the completion of construction or improvement to secure or provide for the payment of all or a portion of the purchase price of such property or the cost of construction or improvement thereof (including any Indebtedness incurred to finance such acquisition, construction or improvement), as the case may be and (B) Liens on property (including any unimproved portion of partially improved property) of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries created within 12 months of completion of construction of a new plant or plants on such property to secure all or part of the cost of such construction (including any Indebtedness incurred to finance such construction) if, in the opinion of the Borrower, such property or such portion thereof was prior to such construction substantially unimproved for the use intended by the Borrower; , , no such Lien shall extend to or cover any property other than the property being acquired, constructed or improved (including any unimproved portion of a partially improved property) including general intangibles, proceeds and improvements, accessories and upgrades thereto;
provided
however
 
     (iv)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Liens arising in connection with capitalized leases, that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any assets other than the assets subject to such capitalized leases; and proceeds (including, without limitation, proceeds from associated contracts and insurances) of, and improvements, accessories and upgrades to, the property leased pursuant thereto;
provided
 
     (v)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Any Lien existing on any property including general intangibles, proceeds and improvements, accessories and upgrades thereto prior to the acquisition (including acquisition through merger or consolidation) thereof by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or existing on any property of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary, that such a Lien is not created in contemplation or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary and no such Lien shall be extended to cover property other than the asset being acquired including general intangibles, proceeds and improvements, accessories and upgrades thereto;
provided
 
     (vi)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Liens to secure any extension, renewal, refinancing, refunding or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals, refinancings, refundings or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Indebtedness or other obligation secured by any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), that (A) the principal amount of the Indebtedness or other obligation secured thereby is no greater than the outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness or other obligation immediately before such extension, renewal, refinancing, refunding or replacement and (B) such Lien shall only extend to such assets as are already subject to a Lien in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation;
provided
 
     (vii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Liens arising in connection with the pledge of any Equity Interests in any joint venture (that is not a Subsidiary), and liens on the assets of a JV Subsidiary, in each case to secure Joint Venture Debt of such joint venture and/or such JV Subsidiary.  For purposes hereof, "" shall mean Indebtedness and other obligations as to which the lenders will not, pursuant to the terms in the agreements governing such Indebtedness, have any recourse to the stock or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, other than such pledged assets of such JV Subsidiary;
Joint Venture Debt
 
     (viii)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Liens arising in connection with the pledge of any Equity Interests in any Project Finance Subsidiary, so long as such Liens secure only Project Financing;
 
     (ix)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Liens securing other Indebtedness and reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit, that at the time of the creation, incurrence or assumption of any Indebtedness or reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit secured by such Liens and after giving effect thereto, the sum of the principal amount of such Indebtedness and the maximum possible amount of reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing) secured by Liens permitted by this clause (ix) shall not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Worth as reflected in the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(d)(i) and (ii);
provided
 
     (x)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Liens securing Indebtedness existing on the Effective Date and listed on Schedule 5.02(a) (or securing any extension, renewal, refinancing, refunding or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals, refinancings, refundings or replacements), in whole or in part, of such Indebtedness, if the aggregate principal amount of such Indebtedness (as so extended, renewed, refinanced, refunded or replaced) is no greater than the outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness immediately before such extension, renewal, refinancing, refunding or replacement), that the Obligations of the Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents are secured equally and ratably with such Indebtedness and all extensions, renewals, refinancings, refundings and replacements, whether or not initial or successive and whether in or whole or in part, of such Indebtedness; and
provided
 
     (xi)
   
   
   
   
   
 
Liens in favor of one or more Banks pursuant to Section 2.22 or Section 6.02.
 
(b)
 
.  Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions, all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person; , , that (i) this Section 5.02(b) shall not prohibit any such merger or consolidation if (1) at the time of, and immediately after giving effect to, such merger or consolidation, no Default or Event of Default exists or would result therefrom, and (2) either (I) the Borrower is the surviving corporation in such merger or consolidation or (II) if the Borrower is not the surviving corporation, the survivor shall be an entity organized and existing under the laws of the United States or a state thereof and, as the successor in such consolidation or merger, shall have assumed all Obligations and other liabilities of the Borrower under the Loan Documents, and (ii) any Subsidiary of the Borrower may transfer assets to, or merge into or consolidate with, the Borrower, any other Subsidiary of the Borrower or any Person that becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower as a result of any such merger or consolidation; , , that (x) at the time of, and immediately after giving effect to, such transfer, merger or consolidation, no Default of Event of Default exists or would result therefrom and (y) if the Borrower is a party to any such merger or consolidation, either (I) the Borrower shall be the surviving corporation or (II) if the Borrower is not the surviving corporation, the survivor shall be an entity organized and existing under the laws of the United States or a state thereof and, as the successor in such consolidation or merger, shall have assumed all Obligations and other liabilities of the Borrower under the Loan Documents.
Mergers, Etc
provided
however
provided
however
 
(c)
 
.  Use the proceeds of any Advance or any Letter of Credit for any purpose other than for general corporate purposes (including commercial paper backstop) of the Borrower or use any such proceeds (i) in a manner which violates or results in a violation of any law or regulation, (ii) to purchase or carry any margin stock (as defined in Regulation U), except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit the Borrower from using proceeds of the Advances to purchase its own common stock, (iii) to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock (as defined in Regulation U), or (iv) to acquire any equity security of a class which is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, if such acquisition would give the Borrower a controlling interest in the Person that has issued such security, unless the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such Person or of the parent of such Person shall have approved such acquisition.
Use of Proceeds
 
(d)
 
.    If any Advance or Letter of Credit is outstanding, prepay, pay, redeem, purchase, defease, secure or otherwise satisfy in any manner any obligation of the Borrower under the Existing Agreement, except as and when required by the Existing Agreement, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do any of the foregoing or guaranty, secure or otherwise become (directly or indirectly) liable for any such obligation.
Voluntary Payment under Existing Agreement
 
            EVENTS OF DEFAULT
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  Section 6.01
   
   
 
.  If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
(a)
 
(i) The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or by acceleration thereof or otherwise or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or any fees hereunder or other amount payable hereunder, in each case under this clause (ii), within five Business Days of when the same becomes due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or by acceleration thereof or otherwise; or
 
(b)
 
Any representation, warranty or certification made by the Borrower (or any of its Responsible Officers) herein pursuant to or in connection with any Loan Document or in any certificate or document furnished to any Bank pursuant to or in connection with any Loan Document, or any representation or warranty deemed to have been made by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02, shall prove to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or so deemed to have been made; or
 
(c)
 
(i) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(b), 5.01(c) or 5.02 of this Agreement; or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed (other than any term, covenant or agreement covered by Section 6.01(a)) and, in each case under this clause (ii), such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Agent or by any Bank; or
 
(d)
 
(i) The Borrower or any material Subsidiary of the Borrower shall default in the payment when due (subject to any applicable grace period), whether by acceleration or otherwise, of any Indebtedness (other than the Advances (which are covered by Section 6.01(a)), Project Financing or Permitted Non-Recourse Indebtedness) (whether principal, interest, premium or otherwise) of, or directly or indirectly guaranteed by, the Borrower or any such material Subsidiary, as the case may be, in excess of $100,000,000 or (ii) the Borrower or any material Subsidiary of the Borrower shall default in the performance or observance of any obligation or condition with respect to any such Indebtedness (other than the Advances (which are covered by Section 6.01(a)), Project Financing or Permitted Non-Recourse Indebtedness) if the effect of such default is to accelerate the maturity of or require the posting of cash collateral with respect to any such Indebtedness or, in any case, any such Indebtedness shall become due prior to its stated maturity (other than by a regularly-scheduled required payment and mandatory prepayments from proceeds of asset sales, debt incurrence, excess cash flow, equity issuances and insurance proceeds); for the avoidance of doubt the parties acknowledge and agree that any payment required to be made under an assumption or other direct or contingent liability referred to in clause (c) of the definition herein of Indebtedness shall be due and payable at the time such payment is due and payable under the terms of such assumption or liability (taking into account any applicable grace period) and such payment shall not be deemed to have been accelerated or have become due as a result of the obligation assumed or for which the Borrower or any material Subsidiary of the Borrower is otherwise liable having become due; or
provided
that
 
(e)
 
The Borrower or any material Subsidiary of the Borrower shall be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent by a court of competent jurisdiction, or generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any such material Subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its Property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 90 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its Property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any such material Subsidiary shall take any corporate or organizational action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
 
(f)
 
Any final, non-appealable judgment or order by a court of competent jurisdiction for the payment of money in excess of $100,000,000 over and above the amount of insurance coverage available from a financially sound insurer that has acknowledged coverage shall be rendered against the Borrower or any material Subsidiary of the Borrower and not discharged within 30 days after such order or judgment becomes final (or 60 days in the case of any foreign order or judgment); or any judgment, writ, warrant of attachment or execution or similar process shall be issued or levied against a substantial part of the property of the Borrower or any material Subsidiary of the Borrower and such judgment, writ, warrant of attachment or execution or similar process shall not be released, stayed, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy (or 60 days in the case of any foreign judgment, writ, warrant or similar process); or
 
(g)
 
The Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall both (1) incur liability in excess of $250,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of one or more of the following:  (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization or termination of a Multiemployer Plan and (2) fail to pay such liability within fifteen days of such incurrence;
 
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Banks, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Bank to make Advances (other than Letter of Credit Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) and of each Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same (and all of the Commitments) shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Banks, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such other amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest, notice of intent to accelerate, notice of acceleration or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , , that in the event of any actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code, (A) the Commitment of each Bank and the obligation of each Bank to make Advances (other than Letter of Credit Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) and of each Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically be terminated, and (B) the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement shall automatically and immediately become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest, notice of intent to accelerate, notice of acceleration, or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
however
 
Section 6.02
 
  If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Agent may, or shall at the request of the Required Banks, irrespective of whether it is taking any of the actions described in Section 6.01 or otherwise, make demand upon the Borrower to, and forthwith upon such demand the Borrower will, pay to the Agent on behalf of the Banks in same day funds at the Agent's office designated in such demand, for deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding.  If at any time the Agent determines that any funds held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account are subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Agent and the Banks or that the total amount of such funds is less than the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit, the Borrower will, forthwith upon demand by the Agent, pay to the Agent, as additional funds to be deposited and held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to the excess of (a) such aggregate Available Amount over (b) the total amount of funds, if any, then held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account that the Agent determines to be free and clear of all such rights and claims.  Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit for which funds are on deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, such funds shall be applied to reimburse the relevant Issuing Bank or the Banks, as applicable, to the extent permitted by applicable law.
Actions in Respect of the Letters of Credit upon Default
.
 
             THE AGENT
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
Section 7.01
 
.  Each Bank hereby appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as Agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Loan Documents as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof or of any other Loan Document, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto.  As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement (including, without limitation, enforcement or collection of the Notes), the Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Required Banks and such instructions shall be binding upon all Banks and all holders of Notes; provided, however, that the Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes the Agent to personal liability or which is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law.  The Agent agrees to give to each Bank prompt notice of each notice given to it by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Authorization and Action
 
Section 7.02
 
.  Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with any Loan Document, except for their own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  Without limitation of the generality of the foregoing, the Agent: (i) may consult with legal counsel (including, without limitation, counsel for the Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts; (ii) makes no warranty or representation to any Bank and shall not be responsible to any Bank for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in connection with any of the Loan Documents or any other instrument or document; (iii) shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of any of Loan Documents or any other instrument or document on the part of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower or to inspect the Property (including the books and records) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower; (iv) shall not be responsible to any Bank for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of any of the Loan Documents or any other instrument or document; and (v) shall incur no liability under or in respect of any of Loan Documents or any other instrument or document by acting upon any notice (including telephonic notice), consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by facsimile, telegram or telex) believed by it to be genuine and signed, given or sent by the proper party or parties.
Agent's Reliance, Etc
 
Section 7.03
 
.  With respect to its Commitment, the Advances owed to it and the Notes issued to it, each Bank which is also the Agent shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Bank and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent; and the term "Bank" or "Banks" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include any Bank serving as the Agent in its individual capacity.  Any Bank serving as the Agent and its affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee under indentures of, accept investment banking engagements from and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower, any Affiliate of the Borrower and any Person who may do business with or own securities of the Borrower or any Affiliate of the Borrower, all as if such Bank were not the Agent and without any duty to account therefor to the Banks.  In the event that HSBC or any of its affiliates shall be or become an indenture trustee under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (as amended, the "") in respect of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Borrower, the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that any payment or property received in satisfaction of or in respect of any Obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or on behalf of HSBC in its capacity as the Agent for the benefit of any Bank under any Loan Document (other than HSBC or an affiliate of HSBC) and which is applied in accordance with the Loan Documents shall be deemed to be exempt from the requirements of Section 311 of the Trust Indenture Act pursuant to Section 311(b)(3) of the Trust Indenture Act.  
The Agent and its Affiliates
Trust Indenture Act
 
Section 7.04
 
.  Each Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Bank and based on the Financial Statements and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.  Each Bank also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents or any other instrument or document.
Bank Credit Decision
 
Section 7.05
 
.  The Banks (other than the Issuing Banks) agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not promptly reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Advances then held by each of such Banks (or if no Advances are at the time outstanding or if any Advances (other than Letter of Credit Advances held by an Issuing Bank) are held by Persons which are not such Banks, ratably according to either (a) the respective amounts of the Banks' Revolving Credit Commitments, or (b) if no Revolving Credit Commitments are at the time outstanding, the respective amounts of the Revolving Credit Commitments immediately prior to the time the Revolving Credit Commitments ceased to be outstanding), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses and disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of any of the Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith, or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under any of the Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith ("Indemnified Costs"); provided that no Bank shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct as found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction.  Without limitation of the foregoing, each Bank (other than the Issuing Banks) agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for such Bank's ratable share of any costs and expenses (including, without limitation, counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, any of the Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower.  In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.05 applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Agent, any other Agent, any Bank or a third party.
Indemnification
 
Section 7.06
 
.  The Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Banks and the Borrower and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Required Banks.  Upon any such resignation or removal, the Required Banks shall have the right to appoint a successor Agent which, if such successor Agent is not a Bank, is approved by the Borrower (which approval will not be unreasonably withheld).  If no successor Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Banks (and, if not a Bank, approved by the Borrower), and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Required Banks' removal of the retiring Agent, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Banks, appoint a successor Agent, which shall be a commercial bank organized or licensed under the laws of the United States of America or of any State thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000.  Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.  After any retiring Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this Article VII shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Agent under this Agreement.
Successor Agent
 
Section 7.07
 
.  The Arranger and Co-Syndication Agents shall have no duties, obligations or liabilities hereunder or in connection herewith.
Arranger, Co-Syndication Agents
 
            MISCELLANEOUS
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
Section 8.01
 
  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Note, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Banks, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; provided, however, that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:  (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01 without the written consent of each Bank, (b) increase the Commitment of any Bank or subject any Bank to any additional obligations without the written consent of such Bank, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Bank affected thereby, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder without the written consent of each Bank affected thereby, (e) amend the definition of "Required Banks" without the written consent of each Bank; or (f) amend Section 2.14 or this Section 8.01 without the written consent of each Bank; and provided, further, that (x) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Banks required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any of the Notes and (y) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each Issuing Bank in addition to the Banks required above to take such action, affect the rights or obligations of any Issuing Bank under this Agreement.
Amendments, Etc.
 
 Section 8.02
   
  
 
.   Except as otherwise provided in Section 8.02(b) or in the proviso to this Section 8.02(a), all notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including facsimile communication) and mailed, telecopied, or delivered (i) if to the Borrower, at its address at 1401 McKinney, Suite 2400, Houston, Texas 77010-4035 Attention:  Treasurer, Facsimile: (713) 759-2686; (ii) if to any Bank listed on the signature pages hereof, at its Domestic Lending Office specified opposite its name on Schedule II hereto or as on file with the Agent; (iii) if to any other Banks, at its Domestic Lending Office specified in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it becomes a Bank; (iv) if to the Agent, at the addresses set forth below:
Notices, Etc
(a)
 
1 HSBC Center
    Buffalo, NY 14203    
   
   
   
   
    Facsimile No.: 917 229 5284
   
   
   
   
    Attention: Donna Riley
   
   
   
   
 
with a copy to:
 
 
HSBC Bank USA
452 Fifth Avenue 5
th
New York City, NY 10018
Facsimile No.: 212-642-1839
Attention: Mercedes Ahumada
(but references herein to the address of the Agent for purposes of payments or making available funds or for purposes of Section 8.08(c) shall not include the address to which copies are to be sent); or, as to the Borrower or the Agent, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties and, as to each other party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the Borrower and the Agent, that materials required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(d)(i), (ii), (iii) or (vi), unless delivered by posting to a website as provided in Section 5.01(d), shall be delivered to the Agent as specified in Section 8.02(b) or as otherwise specified to the Borrower by the Agent.  Each such notice or communication shall be effective (i) if mailed, upon receipt, (ii) if delivered by hand, upon delivery with written receipt, and (iii) if telecopied, when receipt is confirmed by telephone, except that any notice or communication to the Agent pursuant to this Agreement shall not be effective until actually received by the Agent.
provided
 
(b)
 
The Borrower hereby agrees that it will provide to the Agent all information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Agent pursuant to the Loan Documents, including, without limitation, all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any such communication that (i) relates to a request for a new, or a Conversion of an existing, Borrowing or other extension of credit (including any election of an interest rate or interest period relating thereto), (ii) relates to the payment of any principal or other amount due under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor, (iii) provides notice of any Default or Event of Default, (iv) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any Borrowing or other extension of credit hereunder or (v) is delivered by posting to a website as provided in Section 5.01(d) (all such non-excluded communications being referred to herein collectively as ""), by transmitting the Communications in an electronic/soft medium in a format acceptable to the Agent to .  In addition, the Borrower agrees to continue to provide the Communications to the Agent in the manner specified in the Loan Documents but only to the extent requested by the Agent.  The Borrower further agrees that the Agent may make the Communications available to the Banks by posting the Communications on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").  Agent at its e-mail address set forth above shall constitute effective delivery of the Communications to the Agent for purposes of the Loan Documents.
Communications
donna.l.riley@us.hsbc.com and adrienne.smith@us.hsbc.com
Platform
  The Agent agrees that the receipt of the Communications by the
The platform is provided "as is" and "as available".  The Agent Parties (as defined below) do not warrant the accuracy or completeness of the communications, or the adequacy of the Platform and expressly disclaim liability for errors or omissions in the communications.  No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Agent Parties in connection with the Communications or the Platform.  In no event shall the Agent or any of its affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, advisors or representatives (collectively, "
Agent Parties
") have any liability to the Borrower, any Bank or any other Person or entity for damages of any kind, including, without limitation, direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, losses or expenses (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Agent's transmission of Communications through the internet, except to the extent the liability of any Agent Party is found in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted primarily from such Agent Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
 
(c)
 
Each Bank agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a "") specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Bank for purposes of this Agreement; that if requested by any Bank the Agent shall deliver a copy of the Communications to such Bank by email or facsimile.  Each Bank agrees (i) to notify the Agent in writing of such Bank's e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Bank becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Bank) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
Notice
provided
 
(d)
 
Nothing herein shall prejudice the right of the Agent or any Bank to give any notice or other communication pursuant to any Loan Document in any other manner specified in such Loan Document.
 
Section 8.03
 
.  No failure on the part of any Bank or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right.  The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
 
Section 8.04
 
.    The Borrower agrees to pay on demand (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Arranger and the Agent and each of their respective affiliates in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery and administration of the Loan Documents and the other documents and instruments delivered hereunder or in connection with any amendments, modifications, consents or waivers in connection with the Loan Documents, (ii) all reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Arranger and the Agent and, during the existence of any Event of Default, any Bank with respect to advising the Arranger or the Agent or, during the existence of any Event of Default, any Bank as to its rights and responsibilities under the Loan Documents and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Arranger, the Agent and each Bank in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of the Loan Documents (including the enforcement of rights under this Section 8.04(a)) and the other documents and instruments delivered hereunder and rights and remedies hereunder and thereunder.
Expenses and Taxes; Compensation
(a)
 
(b)
 
If any payment or purchase of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurodollar Rate Advance is made other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment, purchase or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.09, Section 2.10, Section 2.15, Section 2.16 or Section 2.17, acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, the Borrower shall, within 15 days after demand by any Bank (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Bank any amounts required to compensate such Bank for any additional losses, costs or expenses which it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment, purchase or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense reasonably incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Bank to fund or maintain such Advance.  A certificate as to the amount of such additional losses, costs or expenses, submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Bank, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
 
(
c)
 
The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent, the Banks, the Arranger and their respective directors, officers, employees, affiliates, advisors, attorneys and agents (each, an "") from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of counsel) for which any of them may become liable or which may be incurred by or asserted against any of the Indemnified Parties in connection with or arising out of (i) any Loan Document or any other document or instrument delivered in connection herewith or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of any Advance or Letter of Credit or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (ii) the existence of any condition on any property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that constitutes a violation of any environmental protection law or any other law, rule, regulation or order, or (iii) any investigation, litigation, or proceeding, whether or not any of the Indemnified Parties is a party thereto, related to or in connection with any of the foregoing or any Loan Document, including, without limitation, any transaction in which any proceeds of any Advance or Letter of Credit are applied, including, without limitation, in each of the foregoing cases, any such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense resulting from the negligence of any Indemnified Party, but excluding any such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense sought to be recovered by any Indemnified Party to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Party.
Indemnified Party
 
(d)
 
Except as set forth in the next succeeding sentence, each of the Banks and the Agent and each of their respective directors, officers, employees, affiliates, advisors and agents shall not be liable to the Borrower for, and the Borrower agrees not to assert any claim for, amounts constituting special, indirect, consequential, punitive, treble or exemplary damages arising out of or in connection with any breach by such Bank or the Agent of any of its obligations hereunder.  If the Borrower becomes liable to a third party for amounts constituting punitive, treble or exemplary damages as a result of a breach of an obligation hereunder by a Bank or the Agent, as the case may be, the Borrower shall be entitled to claim and recover (and does not waive its rights to claim and recover) such amounts from such Bank or the Agent, as the case may be, to the extent such Bank or the Agent, as the case may be, would be liable to the Borrower for such amounts but for the limitation set forth in the preceding sentence.
 
(e)
 
Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, all obligations of the Borrower under Section 2.12, Section 2.13 and this Section 8.04 shall survive the termination of the Commitments and this Agreement and the payment in full of all amounts hereunder and under the Notes.
 
Section 8.05
 
.  Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making by the Required Banks of the request or the granting by the Required Banks of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, each Bank is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Bank (or by any branch, agency, subsidiary or other Affiliate of such Bank, wherever located) to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any Note held by such Bank, whether or not such Bank shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any such Note and although such obligations may be unmatured.  Each Bank agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application made by such Bank, provided that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.  The rights of each Bank under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of setoff) which such Bank may have.
Right of Set-Off
 
Section 8.06
 
.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in any other Loan Document or in any other document or instrument, no provision of any of the Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith is intended or shall be construed to require the payment or permit the collection of interest in excess of the maximum non-usurious rate permitted by applicable law.  Accordingly, if the transactions with any Bank contemplated hereby would be usurious under applicable law, if any, then, in that event, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any Note payable to such Bank, this Agreement or any other document or instrument, it is agreed as follows: (i) the aggregate of all consideration which constitutes interest under applicable law that is contracted for, taken, reserved, charged or received by such Bank under any Note payable to such Bank, this Agreement or any other document or instrument shall under no circumstances exceed the maximum amount allowed by such applicable law, and any excess shall be canceled automatically and, if theretofore paid, shall, at the option of such Bank, be credited by such Bank on the principal amount of the indebtedness owed to such Bank by the Borrower or refunded by such Bank to the Borrower, and (ii) in the event that the maturity of any Note payable to such Bank is accelerated or in the event of any required or permitted prepayment, then such consideration that constitutes interest under law applicable to such Bank may never include more than the maximum amount allowed by such applicable law and excess interest, if any, to such Bank provided for in this Agreement or otherwise shall be canceled automatically as of the date of such acceleration or prepayment and, if theretofore paid, shall, at the option of such Bank, be credited by such Bank on the principal amount of the indebtedness owed to such Bank by the Borrower or refunded by such Bank to the Borrower.  In determining whether or not the interest contracted for, taken, reserved, charged or received by any Bank exceeds the maximum non-usurious rate permitted by applicable law, such determination shall be made, to the extent that doing so does not result in a violation of applicable law, by amortizing, prorating, allocating and spreading, in equal parts during the period of the full stated term of the loans hereunder, all interest at any time contracted for, taken, charged, received or reserved by such Bank in connection with such loans.
Limitation and Adjustment of Interest
(a)
 
(b)
 
In the event that at any time the interest rate applicable to any Advance made by any Bank would exceed the maximum non-usurious rate allowed by applicable law, the rate of interest to accrue on the Advances by such Bank shall be limited to the maximum non-usurious rate allowed by applicable law, but shall accrue, to the extent permitted by law, on the principal amount of the Advances made by such Bank from time to time outstanding, if any, at the maximum non-usurious rate allowed by applicable law until the total amount of interest accrued on the Advances made by such Bank equals the amount of interest which would have accrued if the interest rates applicable to the Advances pursuant to Article II had at all times been in effect.  In the event that upon the final payment of the Advances made by any Bank and termination of the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Bank, the total amount of interest paid to such Bank hereunder and under the Notes is less than the total amount of interest which would have accrued if the interest rates applicable to such Advances pursuant to Article II had at all times been in effect, then the Borrower agrees to pay to such Bank, to the extent permitted by law, an amount equal to the excess of (a) the lesser of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on such Advances if the maximum non-usurious rate allowed by applicable law had at all times been in effect or (ii) the amount of interest which would have accrued on such Advances if the interest rates applicable to such Advances pursuant to Article II had at all times been in effect over (b) the amount of interest otherwise accrued on such Advances in accordance with this Agreement.
 
Section 8.07
 
.  This Agreement shall become effective as provided in Section 3.01 hereof and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower and the Agent and each Bank and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights or obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any interest herein or therein without the prior written consent of all of the Banks.
Binding Effect
 
Section 8.08
 
.    Each Bank may assign to one or more banks or other entities all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and the Notes held by it); provided, however, that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all rights and obligations under this Agreement, (ii) except in the case of an assignment of all of a Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Bank being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $5,000,000, (iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee, and (iv) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with the Notes subject to such assignment and a processing and recordation fee of $3,000.  Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Bank hereunder and (y) the Bank assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of an assigning Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Bank shall cease to be a party hereto).
Assignments and Participations
(a)
 
(b)
 
By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Bank assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Bank makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with any Loan Document or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of any Loan Document or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith; (ii) such assigning Bank makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or any other Person or the performance or observance by the Borrower or any other Person of any of its respective obligations under any Loan Document or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the Financial Statements and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, such assigning Bank or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any other instrument or document; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as Agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under the Loan Documents as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Bank.
 
(c)
 
The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.02 a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Banks and the Commitment of, and the principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to, each Bank from time to time (the "").  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Banks may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Bank hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Bank at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
 
(d)
 
Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Bank and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, together with the Notes, if any, subject to such assignment, the Agent shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of Exhibit D, (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower.  Within five Business Days after its receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to the Agent in exchange for the surrendered Notes, if any, a new Note (if requested by the assignee) payable to the order of such Eligible Assignee in an amount equal to the Revolving Credit Commitment assumed by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance (plus any Revolving Credit Commitment already held by it) and, if the assigning Bank has retained a Revolving Credit Commitment hereunder, a new Note payable to the order of the assigning Bank in an amount equal to the Revolving Credit Commitment retained by it hereunder (such new Notes shall be in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of such surrendered Notes, shall be dated the effective date of such Assignment and Acceptance and shall otherwise be in substantially the form of Exhibit A).
 
(e)
 
Each Bank may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (other than the Borrower or any of its Affiliates) in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and the Notes held by it); , , that (i) such Bank's obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrower hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Bank shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) such Bank shall remain the holder of any such Notes for all purposes of this Agreement, (iv) the Borrower, the Agent and the other Banks shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Bank in connection with such Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and (v) the terms of any such participation shall not restrict such Bank's ability to make any amendment or waiver of this Agreement or any Note or such Bank's ability to consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom without the approval of the participant, except that the approval of the participant may be required to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation, or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation.
provided
however
 
(f)
 
Each Issuing Bank may assign to an Eligible Assignee all of its rights and obligations under the undrawn portion of its Letter of Credit Commitment at any time; , , that (i) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee and (ii) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500.
provided
however
 
(g)
 
Any Bank may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section 8.08, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries furnished to such Bank by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to comply with Section 8.14.
provided
 
(h)
 
Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this Agreement, any Bank may at any time create a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including, without limitation, the Revolving Credit Advances owing to it and the Note or Notes held by it) in favor of any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A of the Federal Reserve Board.
 
(i)
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, (i) no percentage of any Revolving Credit Commitment of a Bank shall be assigned except pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance that also assigns to the same assignee the same percentage of such Bank's Letter of Credit Commitment, (ii) no percentage of any Letter of Credit Commitment of a Bank shall be assigned except pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance that also assigns to the same assignee the same percentage of such Bank's Revolving Credit Commitment, and (iii) at the time of any assignment of a Letter of Credit Commitment, (1) if the Borrower has consented to such assignment, the Borrower will cause, or (2) if the Borrower has not consented to such assignment, the Borrower will make reasonable commercial efforts to cause, each Letter of Credit issued by the assigning Bank to be delivered to the assigning Bank and canceled simultaneously with the assigning Bank and the assignee issuing substantially identical replacement Letters of Credit in the aggregate amount of the canceled Letter of Credit, except that the replacement Letters of Credit may be dated the date of such issuance and each such replacement Letter of Credit shall be in an amount that reflects such assignment ; that if clause (2) above is applicable and the Borrower does not promptly cause such delivery and cancellation, then the assigning Bank and the assignee may enter into a participation or similar agreement to share the risks and benefits of such Letters of Credit issued by the assigning Bank
provided
 
Section 8.09
 
.  The Borrower assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit with respect to its use of such Letter of Credit.  Neither any Issuing Bank nor any of its employees, affiliates, advisors, attorneys, agents, officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for: (a) the use that may be made of any Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (b) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (c) payment by such Issuing Bank against presentation of documents that do not comply with the terms of a Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to the Letter of Credit; or (d) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit, except that the Borrower shall have a claim against such Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall be liable to the Borrower, to the extent of any direct, but not consequential, damages suffered by the Borrower that the Borrower proves were caused by (i) such  Issuing Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence as determined in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction in determining whether documents presented under any Letter of Credit comply with the terms of the Letter of Credit or (ii) such Issuing Bank's willful failure to make lawful payment under a Letter of Credit after the presentation to it of a draft and certificates strictly complying with the terms and conditions of the Letter of Credit.  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, such Issuing Bank may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary.
No Liability of Issuing Banks
 
Section 8.10
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of a copy of a signature page to this Agreement by facsimile shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
Section 8.11
 
.    If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase Dollars with such other currency at HSBC's principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
Judgment
(a)
 
(b)
 
If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in a Foreign Currency into Dollars, the parties agree to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase such Foreign Currency with Dollars at HSBC's principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
 
(c)
 
The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any sum due from it in any currency (the "") to any Bank or the Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any other currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Bank or the Agent (as the case may be), of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency, such Bank or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the applicable Primary Currency with such other currency; if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased is less than such sum due to such Bank or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Bank or the Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased exceeds such sum due to any Bank or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, such Bank or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
Primary Currency
 
 Section 8.12
   
 
 
.  This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
  Section 8.13
 
.  To the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, (i) each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its Property, to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any New York state court or federal court sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any appeal thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, any of the Notes, or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such court; (ii) each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding and any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding in any such court; (iii) the Borrower hereby agrees that service of copies of the summons and complaint and any other process which may be served in any such action or proceeding may be made by mailing or delivering a copy of such process to the Borrower at its address specified in Section 8.02; and (iv) each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.  Nothing herein shall affect the rights of any Bank or the Agent to serve legal process in any other manner permitted by law or affect the right that any party hereto may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement, any of the Notes or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith in the courts of any other jurisdiction.  Each of the Borrower, the Agent and the Banks hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, any right it may have to claim or recover in any action or proceeding referred to in this Section 8.13 any exemplary or punitive damages.  The Borrower hereby further irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, any right it may have to claim or recover in any action or proceeding referred to in this Section 8.13 any special or consequential damages.
Jurisdiction; Damages
 
Section 8.14
 
.  Each Bank agrees that it will use reasonable efforts, to the extent not inconsistent with practical business requirements, not to disclose without the prior consent of the Borrower (other than to employees, auditors, accountants, counsel or other professional advisors of the Agent or any Bank) any information with respect to the Borrower or its Subsidiaries which is furnished pursuant to this Agreement, provided that any Bank may disclose any such information (a) as has become generally available to the public, (b) as may be required or appropriate in any report, statement or testimony submitted to or required by any municipal, state or Federal regulatory body having or claiming to have jurisdiction over any Bank or its Affiliates or submitted to or required by the Federal Reserve Board or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar organizations (whether in the United States or elsewhere) or their successors, and including any self-regulatory body having or claiming authority to regulate or oversee any aspect of any Bank's or its Affiliates' businesses, (c) as may be required or appropriate in response to any summons or subpoena in connection with any litigation, (d) in order to comply with any law, order, regulation or ruling applicable to any Bank, (e) to any assignee, participant, prospective assignee, or prospective participant that has agreed to comply with this Section 8.14, (f) in connection with the exercise of any remedy by any Bank pertaining to this Agreement, any of the Notes or any other document or instrument delivered in connection herewith, (g) in connection with any litigation involving any Bank pertaining to any Loan Document or any other document or instrument delivered in connection herewith, (h) to any Bank or the Agent, or (i) to any Affiliate of any Bank.
Confidentiality
 
Section 8.15
 
.  Each Bank and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Bank) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Bank or the Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act.  The Borrower shall provide, to the extent commercially reasonable in light of applicable restrictions or limitations under contract or law, regulation or governmental guidelines, such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Agent or any Banks in order to assist the Agent and the Banks in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Notice
 
Section 8.16
 
.  Each of the Borrower, the Agent and the Banks hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, any of the Notes, any other Loan Document or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
BORROWER:
HALLIBURTON COMPANY
By:    
      //s// Craig W. Nunez
Craig W. Nunez
Senior Vice President and Treasurer
Taxpayer Identification of Borrower:  75-2677995
Address of Principal Place of Business of Borrower:  1401 McKinney, Suite 2400
Houston, Texas 77010-4035
 
 
 
HSBC BANK (USA) N.A., as Agent, as an Issuing Bank and as a Bank
By:  
      //s// Mercedes Ahumada
Name:  Mercedes Ahumada
Title:  Vice President
 
 
 
CITIBANK, N.A., as an Issuing Bank
and as a Bank
By:   
    //s// Amy Pincu
Name:  Amy Pincu
Title:  Vice President
 
 
 
THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC, as an Issuing Bank and as a Bank
By:   
       //s// Patricia J. Dundee
Name:  Patricia J. Dundee
Title:  Managing Director
 
 
 
 
    ANNEX A
   
   
   
   
"" means, for any date, 0.10% per annum.
Applicable Commitment Fee Rate
 
"" means, for any date, a rate per annum equal to the Credit Default Swap Spread at the applicable date of determination specified below, that in no event shall the Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate) be less than 1.25% per annum or greater than 5.00% per annum.  The Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate) applicable to any Eurodollar Rate Advance for any Interest Period will be determined based on the Credit Default Swap Spread in effect two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.  The "" at any determination date is the credit default swap mid-rate spread applicable to senior debt of the Borrower with a maturity of one year from such determination date (the ""), as of the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding such determination date, as provided by Markit Group Limited through its website or, if no such Spread (Eurodollar Rate) appears on such website, then the Spread (Eurodollar Rate), as of the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding such determination date, as provided by Bloomberg through its website.  If at any time the Credit Default Swap Spread is unavailable and the Borrower and the Banks have been unable to agree, each in its own discretion, on an alternative means of determining the Spread (Eurodollar Rate), the Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate) shall be 5.00% per annum.
Applicable Margin (Eurodollar Rate)
provided
Credit Default Swap Spread
Spread (Eurodollar Rate)
 
 
 


