FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20090522141345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 Item 5.02.                 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Amendment and Restatement of the Stock and Incentive Plan
At our Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 20, 2009, our stockholders approved the amendment and restatement of the Halliburton Company Stock and Incentive Plan (the "Stock and Incentive Plan").  The Stock and Incentive Plan was amended and restated by our Board of Directors on February 11, 2009, subject to the approval of our stockholders.
 
As a result of the stockholders approval, the Stock and Incentive Plan was materially amended and modified as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
A more complete description of the terms of the Stock and Incentive Plan and the material amendments and modifications to the plan can be found in (Item 3) (pages 49 through 54) of our definitive proxy statement dated and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 6, 2009, which description is incorporated by reference herein.  The foregoing descriptions and the description incorporated by reference from our proxy statement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Stock and Incentive Plan, a copy of which is filed as Appendix B to our proxy statement.
 
Amendment and Restatement of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Also at our Annual Meeting of Stockholders, our stockholders approved the amendment and restatement of the Halliburton Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP").  The ESPP was amended and restated by our Board on February 11, 2009, subject to the approval of our stockholders.
 
As a result of the stockholders approval, the ESPP was amended and restated by authorizing an additional 20,000,000 shares of our common stock for purchase under the ESPP.
 
A more complete description of the terms of the ESPP and the material amendments and modifications to the ESPP can be found in (Item 4) (pages 55 through 57) of our definitive proxy statement dated and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 6, 2009, which description is incorporated by reference herein.  The foregoing description and the description incorporated by reference from our proxy statement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the ESPP, a copy of which is filed as Appendix C to our proxy statement.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


