FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20090422115539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
  
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 20, 2009, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces First Quarter Earnings.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
 Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that net income for the first quarter of 2009 was $378 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.  This compares to net income for the first quarter of 2008 of $580 million, or $0.63 per diluted share. The first quarter of 2009 results were negatively impacted by the steep downturn in North America drilling activity and included $19 million of after-tax expenses, or $0.02 per diluted share, associated with employee separation costs.
HOUSTON, Texas
Halliburtons consolidated revenue in the first quarter of 2009 was $3.9 billion, down 3% from the first quarter of 2008.  Consolidated operating income was $616 million in the first quarter of 2009 compared to $847 million in the first quarter of 2008.  With the exception of the software and asset solutions and the newly organized testing and subsea product service lines, results for all product service lines fell primarily due to lower demand for products and services in North America based on a reduction in rig count and pricing declines.
During the first quarter, we experienced significant volume reduction and margin compression due to the steep downturn in North America drilling activity. The first quarter brought unprecedented declines in the rig count and prolonged weakness to the commodity markets. These industry-wide declines have been exacerbated by restrictions to some of our customers access to capital and the decrease in global demand for oil and natural gas, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
The North America rig count has dropped approximately 30% during the first quarter, with areas such as the Rockies, Permian basin, and Mid-Continent being the most affected. This has resulted in a decrease in the volume of activity leading to overcapacity and related price erosion on remaining work. As a result, we experienced a 53% year-over-year decline in operating income in North America. Due to the sharpness of the decline, we have taken proactive measures to reduce costs.
Halliburton/Page 2
International markets have remained more resilient in the first quarter compared to the domestic market. Outside North America, revenue grew 3% on a year-over-year basis led by Latin America contributing 9%. Growth was significantly impacted by unfavorable currency movements across several regions particularly in countries such as Norway, United Kingdom, Brazil, and Mexico.
International projects are now being deferred, and the tightness in the credit markets continues to impact independent operators globally. While integrated oil company and national oil company clients have not materially cut their spending, they are re-evaluating the economics of their projects amid a lower commodity price environment.
Eastern Hemisphere revenue was relatively flat from the prior year. Strong performance in Africa helped to mitigate activity declines in Russia. In our Middle East/Asia region, revenue was flat as contract deferrals and the anticipated finalization of the Khurais project in Saudi Arabia offset increased revenues in Asia. Asia Pacific continues to benefit from our expanded technology and manufacturing infrastructure resulting in year-over-year operating income growth in India and Southeast Asia.
Activity has increased in Latin America and combined with our technology leadership resulted in solid year-over-year performance in Mexico, Brazil, and Colombia.
While international growth has slowed, operating margins outside North America remained at our target level of 20%. However, we anticipate continued margin pressure as global customers seek to lower their costs by securing cost concessions from their supply chain.
Industry prospects will continue to be weak in the coming quarters, and visibility to the ultimate depth and length of this cycle remains uncertain.  However, we believe that the long-term prospects of the industry remain sound. We will continue to manage through this downturn focusing on expanding our market position, reducing input costs, and delivering the superior execution our customers have come to expect.  We will make the strategic investments to emerge even stronger when the industry recovers, concluded Lesar.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 3
2009 First Quarter Results
Completion and Production (C&P) operating income in the first quarter of 2009 was $363 million, a decrease of $141 million or 28% from the first quarter of 2008.  North America C&P operating income decreased 48%, primarily due to a decline in rig count, volume reductions, and pricing declines across all product service lines in the United States and Canada. The first quarter of 2008 included a $35 million gain related to the sale of a joint venture interest in the United States.  Latin America C&P operating income increased 2% from increased completion tools and production enhancement activity in Brazil and Mexico.  Europe/Africa/CIS C&P operating income increased 20% with higher demand for cementing services in Africa and production enhancement services in Europe.  Middle East/Asia C&P operating income was flat with higher demand for production enhancement services and intelligent completion systems in Asia Pacific balancing out declines in completion tools and cementing in the Middle East.
Drilling and Evaluation (D&E) operating income in the first quarter of 2009 was $304 million, a decrease of $105 million or 26% over the first quarter of 2008.  North America D&E operating income decreased 62%, primarily due to lower volumes and pricing declines across all product service lines.  Latin America D&E operating income remained flat as higher demand for well construction technologies in Mexico, Colombia, and Ecuador was offset by weakness in Argentina and Venezuela.  Europe/Africa/CIS D&E operating income decreased 18%, primarily due to decreased demand for drilling services in Europe and Russia.  Middle East/Asia D&E operating income increased 28% over the first quarter of 2008, with the most significant impact coming from increased demand for drilling services in Asia Pacific.  The first quarter of 2008 included a $23 million impairment charge for a Bangladesh oil and gas property.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 4
Significant Events and Achievements
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 5
Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the energy industry.  With more than 55,000 employees in approximately 70 countries, the company serves the upstream oil and gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir  from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production through the life of the field. Visit the companys Web site at .
www.halliburton.com
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements.  These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or natural gas which has been significantly impacted by the worldwide financial and credit crisis; consequences of audits and investigations by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity, potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to radioactive sources, explosives, and chemicals; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; unsettled political conditions, war, and the effects of terrorism, foreign operations, and foreign exchange rates and controls; weather-related issues including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by customers; delays or failures by customers to make payments owed to us; execution of long-term, fixed-price contracts; impairment of oil and gas properties; structural changes in the oil and natural gas industry; maintaining a highly skilled workforce; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses and operations of joint ventures. Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect Halliburtons business, results of operations, and financial condition.  Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
Prior period information is restated for the adoption of SFAS 160, FSP EITF 03-6-1, FSP APB 14-1, and the segment reclassification to reflect the movement of certain operations from the Completion and Production segment to the Drilling and Evaluation segment.
 
 
 
Prior period information is restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 160, FSP EITF 03-6-1, FSP APB 14-1, and the segment reclassification to reflect the movement of certain operations from the Completion and Production segment to the Drilling and Evaluation segment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior period segment information was reclassified to reflect the movement of certain operations from the Completion and Production segment to the Drilling and Evaluation segment.
See Footnote Table 1 and Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
    See Footnote Table 1 and Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
Prior period segment information was reclassified to reflect the movement of certain operations from the Completion and Production segment to the Drilling and Evaluation segment.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


