FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20110719140625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
  
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 18, 2011, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces Second Quarter Earnings of $0.81 Per Diluted Share, Excluding Employee Separation Costs
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
 Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that net income for the second quarter of 2011 was $747 million, or $0.81 per diluted share, excluding employee separation costs of $8 million, after-tax, or $0.01 per diluted share. Reported net income for the second quarter of 2011 was $739 million, or $0.80 per diluted share. This compares to net income for the first quarter of 2011 of $511 million, or $0.56 per diluted share. The first quarter of 2011 results were negatively impacted by $46 million, after-tax, or $0.05 per diluted share, related primarily to reserving certain assets as a result of political sanctions in Libya. Net income for the second quarter of 2010 was $480 million, or $0.53 per diluted share.
HOUSTON, Texas
Halliburtons consolidated revenue in the second quarter of 2011 was $5.9 billion, compared to $5.3 billion in the first quarter of 2011. Consolidated operating income was $1.2 billion in the second quarter of 2011, compared to $814 million in the first quarter of 2011. These increases were primarily attributed to improved pricing and equipment utilization in United States land, where nearly all product service lines have benefited from the shift to unconventional oil and liquids-rich basins. Consolidated revenue and operating income were $4.4 billion and $762 million, respectively, in the second quarter of 2010.
I am extremely pleased with our second quarter results as total revenue set yet another company record. North America continues to deliver very strong growth in revenue and profitability, while international profit recovered modestly. As a whole, our level of operating margin was the highest it has been since 2008, said Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer.
North America revenue grew by 16% sequentially compared to United States rig activity growth of 6%, with incremental operating margins of greater than 50% for both divisions. This was driven by the execution of our North America growth strategy in liquids-rich basins, and our customers continued adoption of our integrated solutions.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 2
 
 
We have for some time expressed confidence in the strength of the North America cycle, and our results this quarter validate our positive view on the market. Strong crude prices, operators improved cash flows combined with their ability to access capital, and the increasingly liquids-rich nature of the United States land market, give us continued confidence in the strength of North America through 2012.
International revenue grew 8% from the prior quarter, with 18% operating income growth, excluding the impact of Libya and employee separation costs. Strong sequential operating income improvement was driven by seasonal recovery in the North Sea and Russia as well as improved activity in Latin America and Asia. However, the shutdown in Libya, project delays in Iraq, mobilization costs in Sub-Saharan Africa, and the sluggish market in the United Kingdom and Algeria have impacted the pace of recovery for our international results. In Europe, despite the employee separation costs in the second quarter, increasing interest in shale development gives us confidence in business prospects longer term. We are now seeing some evidence that international pricing is stabilizing and we believe that volume increases will result in pricing improvements toward the end of the year.
Robust growth in global energy demand supports the continuing need to develop new hydrocarbon resources and provides us with strong growth opportunities. We anticipate that the execution of our strategy and our focus on the high growth segments of deepwater, unconventional resources, and mature fields will result in margin expansion in both our North America and international business, and will support continued delivery of strong shareholder returns, concluded Lesar.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 3
2011 Second Quarter Results
Completion and Production
Completion and Production (C&P) revenue in the second quarter of 2011 was $3.6 billion, an increase of $446 million, or 14%, from the first quarter of 2011. Continued demand for production enhancement services in the United States accounted for the majority of this increase.
C&P operating income in the second quarter of 2011 was $918 million, an increase of $258 million, or 39%, over the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the second quarter impact of employee separation costs in the Eastern Hemisphere and the first quarter impact of the charge for Libya, C&P operating income improved $228 million, or 33%, from the first quarter of 2011. North America C&P operating income increased $213 million compared to the first quarter of 2011, primarily due to higher demand for production enhancement services in the United States land market. Latin America C&P operating income decreased $7 million, as higher costs across South America offset higher activity levels in Mexico and Brazil. Europe/Africa/CIS C&P operating income improved due to seasonal recovery in the North Sea. Middle East/Asia C&P operating income rose as higher activity across all product service lines in Saudi Arabia and Australia offset lower completion tools sales in Malaysia.
Drilling and Evaluation
Drilling and Evaluation (D&E) revenue in the second quarter of 2011 was $2.3 billion, an increase of $207 million, or 10%, from the first quarter of 2011, with all regions experiencing revenue growth.
D&E operating income in the second quarter of 2011 was $324 million, an increase of $94 million, or 41%, from the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the second quarter impact of employee separation costs in the Eastern Hemisphere and the first quarter impact of the charge for Libya, D&E operating income increased $76 million, or 30%, from the first quarter of 2011. North America D&E operating income increased $52 million compared to the first quarter of 2011, with higher United States drilling activity both onshore and in the Gulf of Mexico. Latin America D&E operating income increased $12 million, primarily due to higher activity in Brazil. Europe/Africa/CIS D&E operating income improved due to higher seasonal demand for drilling services in the North Sea and Russia which offset lower activity in Angola. Middle East/Asia D&E operating income was flat, as higher direct sales in China and Kuwait offset contract delays in Iraq.
Corporate and Other
During the second quarter of 2011, Halliburton invested an additional $12 million in strategic projects aimed at improving Halliburtons operations and creating the opportunity for competitive advantage for the company. These include a lower cost service delivery model in North America and repositioning technology, supply chain, and manufacturing infrastructure to support projected international growth. Halliburton expects to continue funding this effort throughout 2011.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 4
Significant Recent Events and Achievements
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 5
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 6
Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the energy industry. With over 60,000 employees in approximately 80 countries, the company serves the upstream oil and gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir  from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production through the life of the field. Visit the companys Web site at .
www.halliburton.com
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the companys control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: results of litigation and investigations; actions by third parties, including governmental agencies; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or natural gas can be significantly impacted by weakness in the worldwide economy; consequences of audits and investigations by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity and potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; indemnification and insurance matters; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; risks of international operations, including risks relating to unsettled political conditions, war, the effects of terrorism, and foreign exchange rates and controls, and doing business with national oil companies; weather-related issues, including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by customers; delays or failures by customers to make payments owed to us; execution of long-term, fixed-price contracts; impairment of oil and gas properties; structural changes in the oil and natural gas industry; maintaining a highly skilled workforce; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses and operations of joint ventures. Halliburtons Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect Halliburtons business, results of operations, and financial condition. Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
See Footnote Table 3 for adjusted operating income excluding separation costs and Libya reserve.
 
 
 
 
   See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operation income.
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Conference Call Details
Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) will host a conference call on Monday, October 17, 2011, to discuss the third quarter 2011 financial results.  The call will begin at 8:00 AM Central Time (9:00 AM Eastern Time).
Halliburtons second quarter press release will be posted on the Halliburton Web site at . Please visit the Web site to listen to the call live via webcast. In addition, you may participate in the call by telephone at (703) 639-1306. A passcode is not required. Attendees should log-in to the webcast or dial-in approximately 15 minutes prior to the calls start time.
www.halliburton.com
A replay of the conference call will be available on Halliburtons Web site for seven days following the call. Also, a replay may be accessed by telephone at (888) 266-2081, passcode 1526921.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


