FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20120124103259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
  
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 23, 2012, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces Fourth Quarter Earnings of $1.00 Per Diluted Share From Continuing Operations, Excluding an Environmental-Related Charge
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
 Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $921 million, or $1.00 per diluted share, excluding a $15 million charge, after-tax, or $0.02 per diluted share, for an environmental-related matter included in Corporate and other. This compares to income from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2011 of $867 million, or $0.94 per diluted share, excluding a $19 million, after-tax, or $0.02 per diluted share, impairment charge on an asset held for sale in the Europe/Africa/CIS region. Net income attributable to company in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $906 million, or $0.98 per diluted share.
HOUSTON, Texas
Halliburtons consolidated revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $7.1 billion, compared to $6.5 billion in the third quarter of 2011. Consolidated operating income was $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $1.3 billion in the third quarter of 2011. Improved international results accounted for the majority of these increases.
Halliburtons revenue was $24.8 billion for the full year 2011, an increase of 38% from 2010, and consolidated operating income was $4.7 billion, an increase of 57% from 2010. Income from continuing operations for the full year 2011 was $3.0 billion, or $3.26 per diluted share, compared to full year 2010 income from continuing operations of $1.8 billion, or $1.97 per diluted share. These increases were largely attributable to strong results in North America, with higher activity in the unconventional oil and natural gas basins, partially offset by disruptions caused by geopolitical events in North Africa.
Commenting on 2011 results, Dave Lesar, chairman, president, and chief executive officer said, I am very pleased with our fourth quarter and full year 2011 results, which set records for revenue and operating income. For the full year, we delivered record revenue for both of our business segments and three of our four geographies. During 2011, we continued to execute our growth strategy in North America while expanding our presence in key emerging international markets. Overall, we were able to deliver on our goals of superior growth, margins, and returns while strengthening our position for future growth.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 2
In North America, the trend toward increased horizontal oil-directed activity continued in the fourth quarter with the United States oil-directed rig count up 8% sequentially compared to a natural gas rig count decline of 2%. We expect this trend will persist into 2012, along with continued improvements in drilling and completion efficiency, leading to an overall increase in demand for our services.
Our results in North America in 2011 were truly outstanding, with each quarter setting a new record for revenue. Fourth quarter revenue was up 6% sequentially, compared to
United States rig count growth of 3%.  Operating income declined slightly from the third quarter due to merger and acquisition related costs from recent acquisitions, normal seasonal factors, cost inflation, logistical challenges, and equipment and crew relocations from natural gas to liquids-rich basins.
The improvement in the Gulf of Mexico in 2011 was encouraging. We saw increased rig count as the year progressed, particularly in deepwater, as our customers success with permitting improved and they resumed operations. Our strategy of keeping our infrastructure intact has paid off, with our fourth quarter revenue now above pre-moratorium levels. We expect continued activity increases in 2012.
While international markets were challenging in 2011, I am pleased with our results. Latin America had an outstanding year topped off by a fourth quarter in which revenue and operating income increased sequentially 9% and 24%, respectively.
Eastern Hemisphere proved challenging in 2011 as impacts from the unrest in North Africa, continued competitive pricing, and delays in Iraq weighed on our results. However, we saw progress through the year as Egypt and Algeria recovered, activity in Iraq improved, and we continued to execute strategies to improve profitability in other markets. In the fourth quarter, our Eastern Hemisphere operations experienced sequential revenue and operating income growth of 11% and 69%, respectively, compared to rig count growth of 3%, supported by strong year-end sales of software and equipment. We expect pricing will remain competitive in 2012 with improvements anticipated for select basins and some of our new technologies.
In 2011, we executed with tremendous success our North America strategy that was started in the downturn of 2009. Similarly, we are building a position in key international markets that will enable growth as those markets develop. We are proud of the results delivered in 2011 and excited about the opportunities in 2012.
In 2012, we expect revenue growth in excess of rig count growth in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. We are proactively moving equipment from dry natural gas to liquids plays in North America in response to recent rig moves. We believe strongly that we will not experience a collapse of margins in North America and, as a result, we expect revenue and operating income will increase in 2012 in North America.
 
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 3
We believe that operators in North America will continue to focus on the development of their liquids-rich unconventional resource base resulting in robust demand for our services. Given the dramatic growth experienced by us and the industry during 2011, we expect continued challenges in the areas of material costs, labor, and logistics. We plan to mitigate these challenges through investment in technology and our logistical infrastructure and by seeking to recover increased costs from our customers. As a result of the recent decline in natural gas prices and corresponding decline in natural gas rig count, we are relocating people and equipment into oil and liquids-rich basins. We believe that reduced productivity and increased costs resulting from this relocation will be a short-term disruption for us and that the impact we saw in the fourth quarter will continue into 2012.  We have dealt successfully with some significant logistical challenges in 2011 to accommodate the tremendous growth we have seen, and we expect to address these near-term issues with the same intensity.
We anticipate that Eastern Hemisphere margins will return to the mid- to high-teens at the end of 2012 as we gain traction on new projects while growing revenue at a higher rate than rig count growth.  Our positive view of the market supports an increase in capital spending in 2012.  However, we expect pressure pumping horsepower additions will not increase over 2011, and an increased proportion of horsepower will be directed to international markets, concluded Lesar.
 
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 4
2011 Fourth Quarter Results
Completion and Production
Completion and Production (C&P) revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $4.3 billion, an increase of $303 million, or 8%, from the third quarter of 2011. Strong revenue growth was reflected across most product service lines, with record revenues from production enhancement, cementing, and completion tools.
C&P operating income in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $1.1 billion, an increase of $19 million, or 2%, over the third quarter of 2011. Excluding the third quarter impairment charge on an asset held for sale in the Europe/Africa/CIS region, C&P operating income was flat from the third quarter of 2011. North America C&P operating income was down 2% from the third quarter, as the impact of normal seasonality, cost inflation, logistical challenges, and recent acquisitions outweighed higher United States land and offshore activity. Latin America C&P operating income increased $8 million, or 19%, compared to the third quarter of 2011 as a result of increased stimulation work in Mexico and higher cementing activity in Mexico and Colombia. Excluding the third quarter impairment charge on an asset held for sale, Europe/Africa/CIS operating income increased due to improved vessel utilization in the North Sea, increased cementing work in Angola, and higher stimulation activity and completion tools sales in Algeria. Middle East/Asia C&P operating income increased by 4% compared to the third quarter of 2011 due to increased work in Iraq, higher demand for production enhancement services in Australia, and increased direct sales within the region.
Drilling and Evaluation
Drilling and Evaluation (D&E) revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $2.7 billion, an increase of $213 million, or 8%, from the third quarter of 2011. The division experienced strong sequential revenue growth, particularly in the Middle East/Asia region.
D&E operating income in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $480 million, an increase of $111 million, or 30%, from the third quarter of 2011. North America D&E operating income was up 2% compared to the third quarter of 2011 due to higher overall activity. Latin America D&E operating income improved $25 million, or 27%, from the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher drilling activity and software sales in Mexico and increased demand for testing and subsea work in Brazil. Europe/Africa/CIS D&E operating income increased $14 million, or 27%, from the third quarter of 2011 as a result of increased demand for drilling services in the North Sea and Angola and a seasonal year-end increase in software sales. Middle East/Asia D&E operating income increased $69 million, or 141%, from the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to increased direct sales, drilling services in Asia, and improved activity in Iraq.
Corporate and Other
During the fourth quarter of 2011, Halliburton invested an additional $23 million in strategic projects aimed at strengthening Halliburtons North America service delivery model and repositioning technology, supply chain, and manufacturing infrastructure to support projected international growth. Halliburton expects to continue funding this effort in 2012.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 5
Significant Recent Events and Achievements
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 6
Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the energy industry. With nearly 70,000 employees in approximately 80 countries, the company serves the upstream oil and gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir  from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production through the life of the field. Visit the companys Web site at .
www.halliburton.com
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the companys control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: results of litigation, settlements, and investigations; actions by third parties, including governmental agencies; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or natural gas can be significantly impacted by weakness in the worldwide economy; consequences of audits and investigations by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity and potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; indemnification and insurance matters; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to offshore oil and natural gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; risks of international operations, including risks relating to unsettled political conditions, war, the effects of terrorism, and foreign exchange rates and controls, international trade and regulatory controls, and doing business with national oil companies; weather-related issues, including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by customers; delays or failures by customers to make payments owed to us; execution of long-term, fixed-price contracts; impairment of oil and natural gas properties; structural changes in the oil and natural gas industry; maintaining a highly skilled workforce; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses and operations of joint ventures. Halliburtons Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect Halliburtons business, results of operations, and financial condition. Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 1 for the significant item included in operating income.
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 1 for the significant item included in operating income.
See Footnote Table 3 for adjusted operating income excluding an asset impairment charge.
 
 
 
 
HALLIBURTON COMPANY
Revenue and Operating Income Comparison
By Segment and Geographic Region
(Millions of dollars)
(Unaudited)
 
 
See Footnote Table 2 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
FOOTNOTE TABLE 1
 
HALLIBURTON COMPANY
Item Included in Operation Income
(Millions of dollars except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call Details
Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) will host a conference call on Monday, January 23, 2012, to
discuss the fourth quarter 2011 financial results. The call will begin at 8:00 AM Central
Time (9:00 AM Eastern Time). 
Halliburtons fourth quarter press release will be posted on the Halliburton Web site at . Please visit the Web site to listen to the call live via webcast. In addition, you may participate in the call by telephone at (703) 639-1306. A passcode is not required. Attendees should log-in to the webcast or dial-in approximately 15 minutes prior to the calls start time.
www.halliburton.com
A replay of the conference call will be available on Halliburtons Web site for seven days following the call. Also, a replay may be accessed by telephone at (703) 925-2533, passcode 1555288.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


