FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20120521112851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
                      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Item 5.02.
 
Amendment and Restatement of the Stock and Incentive Plan
At our Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 16, 2012, our stockholders approved the amendment and restatement of the Halliburton Company Stock and Incentive Plan (the "Stock and Incentive Plan").  The Stock and Incentive Plan was amended and restated by our Board of Directors on February 16, 2012, subject to the approval of our stockholders.
 
As a result of the stockholders approval, the Stock and Incentive Plan was materially amended and modified as follows:
 
 
 
 
A more complete description of the terms of the Stock and Incentive Plan and the material amendments and modifications to the plan can be found in (Item 4) (pages 54 through 60) of our definitive proxy statement dated and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 3, 2012, which description is incorporated by reference herein.  The foregoing descriptions and the description incorporated by reference from our proxy statement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Stock and Incentive Plan, a copy of which is filed as Appendix B to our proxy statement.
 
      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Item 5.07.
On May 16, 2012, Halliburton held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Stockholders were asked to consider and act upon:
 
 
 
The voting results for each matter are set out below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


