FILE:HAL/HAL-8K-20120419133826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
  
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 18, 2012, registrant issued a press release entitled Halliburton Announces First Quarter Earnings From Continuing Operations of $0.89 Per Diluted Share, Excluding a Charge Related to the Macondo Well Incident.
The text of the Press Release is as follows:
 Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) announced today that income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2012 was $826 million, or $0.89 per diluted share, excluding $300 million ($191 million, after-tax, or $0.20 per diluted share), for an estimated loss contingency related to the Macondo well incident.Income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2011 was $558 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, excluding a charge of $46 million, after-tax, or $0.05 per diluted share, related primarily to reserving certain assets as a result of political sanctions in Libya.
HOUSTON, Texas
 
Reported income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2012 was $635 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, compared to $512 million, or $0.56 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2011. Reported net income attributable to company for the first quarter of 2012 was $627 million, or $0.68 per diluted share, compared to $511 million, or $0.56 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2011.
Halliburtons consolidated revenue in the first quarter of 2012 was $6.9 billion, compared to $5.3 billion in the first quarter of 2011. Total operating income was $1.0 billion in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $814 million in the first quarter of 2011. All regions and nearly all product service lines experienced double-digit percentage revenue and operating income growth from the first quarter of 2011.
The $300 million Macondo-related charge represents the amount of probable losses related to the incident that can reasonably be estimated at this time, and may be adjusted in the future as new information and developments become known.
I am very pleased with our first quarter results, with revenue growth of 30% compared to the first quarter of 2011, commented Dave Lesar, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 2
Despite the 17% decline in the United States natural gas rig count and a modest decline in overall United States rig count, our North America revenue increased from the prior quarter to a new record with only a modest decline in operating margins. Our international operations continue to show good progress, with major markets that negatively affected our results in 2011 all showing signs of improvement. We continue to pursue our goals of superior growth, margins, and returns and our first quarter results are evidence of our success.
In North America, revenue and operating income grew by 40% and 45%, respectively, compared to the first quarter of 2011. This impressive growth was made possible by our strategic investments over the last several years combined with our world-class supply chain organization.
The steady increase in unconventional oil-directed activity continued in the first quarter, with a 12% increase in the United States oil-directed rig count nearly offsetting the 17% decline in natural gas-directed rig count. Oil rigs represented 64% of the total United States rig count in the first quarter of 2012, up from 56% in the fourth quarter of 2011, and this represents the highest level in nearly 25 years.
While the strength in the oil and liquids-rich basins has been supportive, the decline in natural gas prices and related natural gas-directed activity in the first quarter caused significant disruptions to our supply chain and our overall efficiency. In addition, increasing cost inflation on certain scarce materials and pricing pressure due to excess service equipment capacity in certain basins negatively affected our margins. We expect the transient impact of some additional natural gas rig dislocation, further cost inflation, continued pricing pressure, and the impact of spring breakup in Canada to negatively impact our North America margins by 200 to 250 basis points in the second quarter of 2012. 
In Latin America, first quarter revenue increased by 27% and operating income increased by 61% compared to the same period in the prior year. Brazil was the largest contributor to this increase, exhibiting clear proof of our success in executing our deepwater strategy. Growth in the Andean countries was another driver of our improved results.
Eastern Hemisphere revenue was up 14% and margins increased from the first quarter of 2011 driven by improvements in markets that negatively impacted our results in 2011. Our operating margin in Iraq improved substantially from the prior quarter and the first quarter of 2011. In addition, our margins in the United Kingdom and East Africa were above our international operating margin for the first quarter of 2012. As the international pricing environment has remained competitive, we continue to address our cost structure and introduce new technologies to improve our financial results.
The global demand for energy remains robust as does the portfolio of technically complex projects underway to meet this need. We expect to continue to utilize our broad technology portfolio and growing global footprint to meet our customer requirements. While we have made great progress in executing our strategies in recent years, we plan to continue investing in our technology, our people, and our expanding global footprint to help our customers meet their goals, concluded Lesar.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 3
2012 First Quarter Results
Completion and Production
Completion and Production (C&P) revenue in the first quarter of 2012 was $4.3 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion, or 35%, from the first quarter of 2011. Increased demand for pressure-pumping services in the United States land market and the addition of Multi-Chem accounted for the majority of this increase.
C&P operating income in the first quarter of 2012 was $1.0 billion, an increase of $376 million, or 57%, over the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the impact of the first quarter of 2011 charge for Libya, C&P operating income improved $340 million from the prior year first quarter. North America C&P operating income increased $257 million, or 42%, from the first quarter of 2011, driven primarily by increased demand for production enhancement and cementing services. Latin America C&P operating income increased $19 million, or 53%, compared to the first quarter of 2011 due to higher activity levels in Mexico and increased demand for cementing services and completion tools sales in Brazil. Excluding the first quarter of 2011 charge for Libya, Europe/Africa/CIS C&P operating income improved as a result of the resumption of activities in North Africa and increased demand in Nigeria. Middle East/Asia C&P operating income increased $17 million, or 47%, compared to the first quarter of 2011 due to higher cementing margins in Oman and increased activity levels in Indonesia and Iraq, which more than offset lower completion tools sales in Malaysia and less demand for production enhancement services in Asia.
Drilling and Evaluation
Drilling and Evaluation (D&E) revenue in the first quarter of 2012 was $2.6 billion, an increase of $468 million, or 22%, from the first quarter of 2011, primarily due to higher drilling activity and strong demand for wireline and perforating services.
D&E operating income in the first quarter of 2012 was $368 million, an increase of $138 million, or 60%, from the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the impact of the first quarter of 2011 charge for Libya, D&E operating income improved $115 million from the prior year first quarter. North America D&E operating income increased $72 million, or 61%, from the first quarter of 2011, driven by increased demand for fluids and wireline and perforating services. Latin America D&E operating income increased $27 million, or 68%, from the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher activity levels in Brazil, which more than offset higher costs in Mexico. Excluding the first quarter of 2011 charge for Libya, Europe/Africa/CIS D&E operating income decreased from the first quarter of 2011 as a result of higher costs and severe weather-related seasonality in Norway, which were partially offset by improved activity levels in North Africa and increased demand for drilling services in the United Kingdom. Middle East/Asia D&E operating income increased $21 million, or 42%, from the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to increased demand for fluids in Saudi Arabia and higher wireline services activity in the Middle East.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 4
Corporate and Other
During the first quarter of 2012, Halliburton invested an additional $23 million in strategic projects aimed at strengthening Halliburtons North America service delivery model and repositioning technology, supply chain, and manufacturing infrastructure to support projected international growth. Halliburton expects to continue funding this effort for the remainder of 2012.
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 5
Significant Recent Events and Achievements
 
 
 
Halliburton/Page 6
Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the worlds largest providers of products and services to the energy industry. With nearly 70,000 employees in approximately 80 countries, the company serves the upstream oil and gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir  from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production through the life of the field. Visit the companys website at .
www.halliburton.com
NOTE: The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding future financial performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the companys control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: results of litigation, settlements, and investigations; actions by third parties, including governmental agencies; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or natural gas can be significantly impacted by weakness in the worldwide economy; consequences of audits and investigations by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity and potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; indemnification and insurance matters; protection of intellectual property rights; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to offshore oil and natural gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; risks of international operations, including risks relating to unsettled political conditions, war, the effects of terrorism, and foreign exchange rates and controls, international trade and regulatory controls, and doing business with national oil companies; weather-related issues, including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by customers; delays or failures by customers to make payments owed to us; execution of long-term, fixed-price contracts; impairment of oil and natural gas properties; structural changes in the oil and natural gas industry; maintaining a highly skilled workforce; availability of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses and operations of joint ventures. Halliburtons Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect Halliburtons business, results of operations, and financial condition. Halliburton undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
 
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
See Footnote Table 2 for adjusted total operating income excluding certain items.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Footnote Table 1 for a list of significant items included in operating income.
See Footnote Table 2 for adjusted total operating income excluding certain items.
 
 
 
FOOTNOTE TABLE 1
 
HALLIBURTON COMPANY
Items Included in Operating Income
(Millions of dollars except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
FOOTNOTE TABLE 2
By Segment and Geographic Region
(Millions of dollars)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call Details
Halliburton (NYSE:HAL) will host a conference call on Wednesday, April 18, 2012, to
discuss the first quarter 2012 financial results. The call will begin at 8:00 AM Central
Time (9:00 AM Eastern Time).
Halliburtons first quarter press release will be posted on the Halliburton website at .  Please visit the website to listen to the call live via webcast. In addition, you may participate in the call by telephone at (703) 639-1108. A passcode is not required. Attendees should log-in to the webcast or dial-in approximately 15 minutes prior to the calls start time.
www.halliburton.com
A replay of the conference call will be available on Halliburtons website for seven days following the call. Also, a replay may be accessed by telephone at (703) 925-2533, passcode 1565570.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


