Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Our Business Symantec is a global leader in providing security, storage and systems management solutions to help businesses and consumers secure and manage their information. We provide customers worldwide with software and services that protect, manage and control information risks related to security, data protection, storage, compliance, and systems management. We help our customers manage cost, complexity and compliance by protecting their IT infrastructure as they seek to maximize value from their IT investments. We have a 52/53 week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. Unless otherwise stated, references to fiscal years in this report relate to fiscal year and periods ended March 28, 2008, March 30, 2007 and March 31, 2006. Our 2009 fiscal year will consist of 53 weeks and will end on April 3, 2009. 28 Table of Contents On April 6, 2007, we completed our acquisition of Altiris Inc., a leading provider of IT management software that enables businesses to easily manage and service network based endpoints. We used approximately $841 million of our cash and cash equivalents to fund the acquisition, which amount was net of Altiris cash and cash equivalents balance. We believe this acquisition enables us to help customers better manage and enforce security policies at the endpoint, identify and protect against threats, and repair and service assets. On November 30, 2007, we completed our acquisition of Vontu, Inc. (Vontu), a provider of Data Loss Prevention (DLP) solutions that assists organizations in preventing the loss of confidential or proprietary information, for approximately $298 million in cash, which amount was net of Vontus cash and cash equivalents balance. On November 29, 2007, we borrowed $200 million under our five year $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility to partially finance this acquisition. In February 2008, we contributed $150 million in cash to our joint venture with Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. in exchange for a 49% interest in the joint venture. The joint venture will develop, manufacture, market and support security and storage appliances to global telecommunications carriers and enterprise customers. Our Operating Segments Our operating segments are significant strategic business units that offer different products and services, distinguished by customer needs. During the March 2008 quarter, we modified the segment reporting structure in line with business operational changes associated with Enrique Salems promotion to Chief Operating Officer in January 2008. The following changes have been made to our segment reporting structure: (1) the Security and Data Management segment was renamed the Security and Compliance segment; (2) the Altiris segment, in its entirety, has been moved into the Security and Compliance segment; (3) the Data Center Management segment was renamed the Storage and Server Management segment; and (4) the Backup Exec products were moved from the Security and Data Management segment to the Storage and Server Management segment. As a result of these changes, we now operate in five operating segments: Security and Compliance, Storage and Server Management, Consumer Products, Services, and Other. The new business structure more directly aligns the operating segments with markets and customers, and we believe will establish more direct lines of reporting responsibilities, speed decision making, and enhance the ability to pursue strategic growth opportunities. All financial information from periods prior to these changes in reportable segments contained in this annual report has been recast, where appropriate, in this annual report to reflect the revised segment reporting structure noted above. For further descriptions of our operating segments, see Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. Our reportable segments are the same as our operating segments. Financial Results and Trends Our net income was $464 million for fiscal 2008 as compared to $404 million and $157 million for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. The higher net income for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 was primarily due to higher revenue in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 as well as a net gain from settlements of litigation of $59 million in fiscal 2008 for which there was no corresponding gain in fiscal 2007. Our net income for fiscal 2008 was partially offset by higher operating expenses, including a loss on sale of a business of $95 million related to the disposition of our APM business, for which there is no corresponding charge in fiscal 2007. The higher net income for fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 was primarily due to the write off in fiscal 2006 of $285 million of acquired in process research and development, or IPRD, as a result of the Veritas acquisition for which there is no comparable charge in fiscal 2007. This increase was partially offset by $154 million of stock based compensation expense related to our adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, Share Based Payment, effective April 1, 2006, higher employee compensation costs resulting from increased employee headcount, and $70 million of restructuring charges compared to $25 million in fiscal 2006. Revenue for fiscal 2008 was $5.9 billion, or 13%, higher than revenue for fiscal 2007. For fiscal 2008 we realized revenue growth across all of our geographic regions as compared to fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 and experienced revenue growth in all of our segments. Foreign currency fluctuations positively impacted our 29 Table of Contents international revenue growth in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2007, foreign currency fluctuations also positively impacted our revenue growth internationally compared to fiscal 2006. We are unable to predict the extent to which revenues in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If international sales become a greater portion of our total sales in the future, changes in foreign exchange rates may have a potentially greater impact on our revenues and operating results. In addition, our April 2007 acquisition of Altiris contributed $194 million to our revenue increase from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2008. Our deferred revenue at March 28, 2008 was 12% higher than at the corresponding amount as of March 30, 2007. Increased sales related to some of our enterprise products and the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies drove the increase in deferred revenue realized for the year ended March 28, 2008. In recent periods, the percentage of our in period revenue that has resulted from the amortization of our deferred revenue balance has been increasing, and we believe this trend has normalized as we are over twelve months into the transition of combining our buying programs for all of our enterprise offerings. The factors contributing to the growth in revenue and deferred revenue are discussed more fully in Results of Operations below. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we implemented a cost savings initiative, which included a workforce reduction of approximately 6% worldwide. We have fully implemented this cost savings initiative in fiscal 2008. In the December 2007 quarter, we implemented another restructuring plan to continue our focus on controlling costs. These cost savings initiatives resulted in restructuring charges totaling $74 million for the year ended March 28, 2008 and we expect to incur additional charges during fiscal year 2009 as a result of this plan. Our gross margins and operating expenses were affected during fiscal 2008 as a result of recent changes in the terms of some of our relationships with key Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). We have negotiated new contract terms with some of our OEM partners, which have resulted in some payments to OEM partners being included in our Consolidated Statements of Income as Operating expenses rather than Cost of revenues. In general, payments to OEMs made on a placement fee per unit basis will be treated as Operating expenses, while payments based on a revenue sharing model will be amortized as Cost of revenues. The increase in Operating expenses will more than offset the decrease in Cost of revenues because placement fee arrangements are expensed on an estimated average cost basis, while revenue sharing arrangements are generally amortized ratably over a one year period, and because payments to OEMs increased. These recent changes have largely been in effect for fiscal 2008 and we do not expect the trend relating to placement fees increasing Operating expense and decreasing Cost of revenues to continue. Cash flows were strong in fiscal 2008 as we achieved $1.8 billion in operating cash flow. We ended fiscal 2008 with $2.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments. In addition, during fiscal 2008 we repurchased 81 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $18.53, for total consideration of $1.5 billion. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in this annual report in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, requires us to make estimates, which include judgments and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly. Historically, our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results; however, actual results may differ from these estimates under different conditions. If actual results differ from these estimates and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Statements of Income, and in certain situations, could have a material adverse effect on liquidity and our financial condition. A critical accounting estimate is based on judgments and assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made. Different estimates that reasonably could have been used or changes in accounting estimates could materially impact the operating results or financial condition. We believe that the estimates 30 Table of Contents described below represent our critical accounting estimates, as they have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. See also Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that have been prescribed for the software industry. We recognize revenue primarily pursuant to the requirements of Statement of Position 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, and any applicable amendments or modifications. Revenue recognition requirements in the software industry are very complex and require us to make many estimates. In arrangements that include multiple elements, including perpetual software licenses and maintenance and or services, and packaged products with content updates, we allocate and defer revenue for the undelivered items based on vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of the fair value of the undelivered elements, and recognize the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount deferred for the undelivered items as revenue. Our deferred revenue consists primarily of the unamortized balance of enterprise product maintenance, consumer product content updates, and arrangements where VSOE does not exist. Deferred revenue totaled approximately $3.1 billion as of March 28, 2008, of which $415 million was classified as Long term deferred revenue in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. VSOE of each element is based on the price for which the undelivered element is sold separately. We determine fair value of the undelivered elements based on historical evidence of our stand alone sales of these elements to third parties or from the stated renewal rate for the undelivered elements. When VSOE does not exist for undelivered items such as maintenance, then the entire arrangement fee is recognized ratably over the performance period. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value of the respective elements, and increasing flexibility in contractual arrangements could materially impact the amount recognized in the current period and deferred over time. For our consumer products that include content updates, we recognize revenue and the associated cost of revenue ratably over the term of the subscription upon sell through to end users. We recognize deferred revenue and inventory for the respective revenue and cost of revenue amounts of unsold product held by our distributors and resellers. We expect our distributors and resellers to maintain adequate inventory of consumer packaged products to meet future customer demand, which is generally four or six weeks of customer demand based on recent buying trends. We ship product to our distributors and resellers at their request and based on valid purchase orders. Our distributors and resellers base the quantity of orders on their estimates to meet future customer demand, which may exceed the expected level of a four or six week supply. We offer limited rights of return if the inventory held by our distributors and resellers is above the expected level of a four or six week supply. We estimate future returns under these limited rights of return in accordance with Statement of Financial Standard (SFAS) No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists. We typically offer liberal rights of return if inventory held by our distributors and resellers exceeds the expected level. Because we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of excess inventory that will be returned, we primarily offset deferred revenue against trade accounts receivable for the amount of revenue in excess of the expected inventory levels. Reserves for product returns. We reserve for estimated product returns as an offset to revenue based primarily on historical trends. We fully reserve for obsolete products in the distribution channels as an offset to deferred revenue. If we made different estimates, material differences could result in the amount and timing of our net revenues for any period presented. More or less product may be returned than what was estimated and or the amount of inventory in the channel could be different than what was estimated. These factors and unanticipated changes in the economic and industry environment could make actual results differ from our return estimates. Reserves for rebates. We estimate and record reserves for channel and end user rebates as an offset to revenue. For consumer products that include content updates, rebates are recorded as a ratable offset to revenue over the term of the subscription. Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors and resellers actual performance against the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly. Our reserves for end user rebates are estimated based on the terms and conditions of the promotional programs, actual sales during the promotion, amount of actual redemptions received, historical redemption trends by product and by type of promotional program, and the value of the rebate. We also consider 31 Table of Contents current market conditions and economic trends when estimating our reserves for rebates. If we made different estimates, material differences may result in the amount and timing of our net revenues for any period presented. Valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and long lived assets When we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price requires management to make significant estimates in determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, especially with respect to intangible assets. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies. These estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future, the appropriate weighted average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. Goodwill. At March 28, 2008, goodwill was $11.2 billion, other intangible assets, net were $1.2 billion, and acquired product rights, net were $649 million. We assess goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite life for impairment within our reporting units annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). The provisions of SFAS 142 require that a two step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with our reportable segments. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the equity assigned to that unit, goodwill is not considered to be impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the equity assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of that reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the excess. To determine the reporting units fair value in the current year evaluation, we use the income approach under which we calculate the fair value of each reporting unit based on the estimated discounted future cash flows of that unit. Our cash flow assumptions are based on historical and forecasted revenue, operating costs, growth rates and other relevant factors. If managements estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other assumptions, the estimate of the fair value of our goodwill could change significantly. Such change could result in goodwill impairment charges in future periods, which could have a significant impact on our operating results and financial condition. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we performed our annual impairment analysis of goodwill. If managements estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other assumptions, the estimate of the fair value of our goodwill could change significantly. Such change could result in goodwill impairment charges in future periods, which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Intangible Assets. We assess the impairment of other identifiable intangible assets according to SFAS 142 whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an assets carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized when the sum of the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than its carrying amount. Such impairment loss would be measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and its fair value. Our cash flow assumptions are based on historical and forecasted revenue, operating costs, and other relevant factors. If managements estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other assumptions, the estimate of the fair value of our acquired product rights and other identifiable intangible assets could change significantly. Such change could result in impairment charges in future periods, which could have a significant impact on our operating results and financial condition. During fiscal 2008 we recorded an impairment charge of $95 million primarily for the write down of intangible assets related to the sale of our Application Performance Management business. Long Lived Assets. We account for long lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. We record impairment charges on long lived assets to be held and 32 Table of Contents used when we determine that the carrying value of the long lived assets may not be recoverable. Based upon the existence of one or more indicators of impairment, we measure any impairment of long lived assets based on a projected undiscounted cash flow method using assumptions determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. Our estimates of cash flows require significant judgment based on our historical results and anticipated results and are subject to many triggering factors which could change and cause a material impact to our operating results or financial condition. During fiscal 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $1 million for our Newport News, VA building held for sale. Acquired Product Rights. We account for acquired product rights in accordance with SFAS No. 86, Accounting for Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed. We record impairment charges on acquired product rights when we determine that the net realizable value of the assets may not be recoverable. To determine the net realizable value of the assets, we use the estimated future gross revenues from each product. Our estimated future gross revenues of each product are based on company forecasts and are subject to change. During fiscal 2008, we did not have any indications of impairment. Restructuring We have estimated expenses for excess facilities related to consolidating, moving, and relocating personnel or sites as a result of restructuring activities and business acquisitions. In determining our estimates, we obtain information from third party leasing agents to calculate anticipated third party sublease income and the vacancy period prior to finding a sublessee. Market conditions may affect our ability to sublease facilities on terms consistent with our estimates. Our ability to sublease facilities on schedule or to negotiate lease terms resulting in higher or lower sublease income than estimated may affect our accrual for site closures. In addition, differences between estimated and actual related broker commissions, tenant improvements, and other exit costs may increase or decrease our accrual upon final negotiation. If we made different estimates regarding these various components of our excess facilities costs, the amount recorded for any new period presented could vary materially from those actually recorded. Stock based Compensation Effective April 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of, and accounted for stock based compensation in accordance with, SFAS No. 123R. Under SFAS No. 123R, we must measure the fair value of all stock based awards, including stock options, restricted stock units, or RSUs, and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP, on the date of grant and amortize the fair value of the award over the requisite service period. We elected the modified prospective application method, under which prior periods are not revised for comparative purposes. The valuation provisions of SFAS No. 123R apply to new awards and to awards that were outstanding as of the effective date and are subsequently modified. For stock based awards granted on or after April 1, 2006, we recognize stock based compensation expense on a straight line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. We also recognize estimated compensation expense for the unvested portion of awards that were outstanding as of the effective date on a straight line basis over the remaining service period using the compensation costs estimated for the SFAS No. 123 pro forma disclosures. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options. The determination of the fair value of stock based awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise and cancellation behaviors, risk free interest rates, and expected dividends. We estimate the expected life of options granted based on an analysis of our historical experience of employee exercise and post vesting termination behavior considered in relation to the contractual life of the option. Expected volatility is based on the average of historical volatility for the period commensurate with the expected life of the option and the implied volatility of traded options. The risk free interest rate is equal to the U.S. Treasury constant maturity rates for the period equal to the expected life. We do not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our expected dividend yield is zero. We are required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual 33 Table of Contents forfeitures differ from those estimates. We estimate forfeitures of stock options, RSUs, and ESPP purchase rights at the time of grant based on historical experience and record compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. All stock based awards are amortized on a straight line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods. If factors change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock based compensation expense in future periods or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the amount of such expense recorded in future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. The Black Scholes option pricing model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable, characteristics not present in our option grants. Existing valuation models, including the Black Scholes and lattice binomial models, may not provide reliable measures of the fair values of our stock based compensation. Consequently, there is a risk that our estimates of the fair values of our stock based compensation awards on the grant dates may bear little resemblance to the actual values realized upon the exercise, expiration, early termination, or forfeiture of those stock based payments in the future. Certain stock based payments, such as employee stock options, may expire worthless or otherwise result in zero intrinsic value as compared to the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. Alternatively, value may be realized from these instruments that is significantly higher than the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. The application of these principles may be subject to further interpretation and refinement over time. There are significant differences among valuation models, and there is a possibility that we will adopt different valuation models in the future. This may result in a lack of consistency in future periods and materially affect the fair value estimate of stock based payments. It may also result in a lack of comparability with other companies that use different models, methods, and assumptions. Stock based compensation expense related to employee stock options, RSUs, and employee stock purchases recognized under SFAS No. 123R for the year ended March 28, 2008 was $164 million. Contingencies and Litigation We evaluate contingent liabilities including threatened or pending litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. We assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes from a potential claim or legal proceeding, as well as potential ranges of probable losses, when the outcomes of the claims or proceedings are probable and reasonably estimable. A determination of the amount of accrued liabilities required, if any, for these contingencies is made after the analysis of each separate matter. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, we base our estimates on the information available at the time of our assessment. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to its pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Any revisions in the estimates of potential liabilities could have a material impact on our operating results and financial position. As of March 28, 2008, we recognized a loss for the pending settlement of a class action lawsuit related to a pre acquisition contingency of Veritas for $21.5 million. The amount was determined based upon existing facts and circumstances of the outcome and estimates that we could reasonably and likely pay. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in each jurisdiction in which we operate. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. We are required to compute our income taxes in each federal, state, and international jurisdiction in which we operate. This process requires that we estimate the current tax exposure as well as assess temporary differences 34 Table of Contents between the accounting and tax treatment of assets and liabilities, including items such as accruals and allowances not currently deductible for tax purposes. The income tax effects of the differences we identify are classified as current or long term deferred tax assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our judgments, assumptions, and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws, and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income. We must also assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realized from future taxable income and, based on this assessment, establish a valuation allowance, if required. Our determination of our valuation allowance is based upon a number of assumptions, judgments, and estimates, including forecasted earnings, future taxable income, and the relative proportions of revenue and income before taxes in the various domestic and international jurisdictions in which we operate. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the valuation allowance in a period, we reflect the change with a corresponding increase or decrease to our tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Income, or to goodwill to the extent that the valuation allowance related to tax attributes of the acquired entities. We failed to file in a timely fashion the final pre acquisition tax return for Veritas, and as a result, it is uncertain whether we can claim a lower tax rate on a dividend made from a Veritas foreign subsidiary under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. We are currently petitioning the IRS for relief to allow us to claim the lower rate of tax. Because we were unable to obtain this relief prior to filing the Veritas tax return in May 2006, we have paid $130 million of additional U.S. taxes. The potential outcomes with respect to our payment of this amount include: If we ultimately obtain relief from the IRS on this matter, the $130 million that we paid in May 2006 may be refunded to us and we will use that amount to increase our income tax accrual for the Veritas transfer pricing disputes. For more information see Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. If we ultimately do not receive relief from the IRS on this matter, and we otherwise have an adjustment arising from the Veritas transfer pricing disputes, then we would only owe additional tax with regard to such disputes to the extent that such adjustment is in excess of $130 million. If we ultimately do not receive relief from the IRS on this matter, and we otherwise do not have an adjustment arising from the Veritas transfer pricing disputes, then (1) we would be required to adjust the purchase price of Veritas to reflect a reduction in the amount of pre acquisition tax liabilities assumed; and (2) we would be required to recognize an equal amount of income tax expense, up to $130 million. In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Interpretation No., or FIN, 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of SFAS No. 109. The provisions of FIN 48 became effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. See Newly Adopted and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report for further discussion. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised), Business Combinations. The accounting treatment related to pre acquisition uncertain tax positions will change when SFAS No. 141(R) becomes effective, which will be in first quarter of our fiscal year 2010. See Newly Adopted and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report for further discussion. 35 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Net Revenues Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Net revenues $ 5,874,419 $ 5,199,366 $ 4,143,392 Period over period change 675,053 1,055,974 13 % 25 % Net revenues increased in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher amortization of deferred revenue as a result of the higher amount of deferred revenue at the beginning of the fiscal 2008 period than at the beginning of the fiscal 2007 period and increased sales related to our Backup Exec, Storage Foundation, and Net Backup products. Our total deferred revenue grew from $2.754 billion to $3.077 billion in fiscal 2008 and grew from $2.163 billion to $2.754 billion in fiscal 2007. The higher deferred revenue balance at the beginning of fiscal 2008 is due to a greater portion of the revenue from transactions being subject to deferral since the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2007 than was the case in prior periods as discussed below. In addition, we realized $194 million due to the new sales of products from our April 6, 2007 acquisition of Altiris for which there is no comparable revenue in the same prior year period and a favorable foreign currency impact in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. As noted above, we realized an increase in recognized revenue from deferred revenue in fiscal 2008. This increase in deferred revenue resulted from combining our buying programs for all of our enterprise offerings, negotiating more transactions that commit customers to multi year periods, offering more flexibility in contractual terms and in product deployments, and providing more services in combination with license and maintenance sales. In the December 2006 quarter, we combined our buying programs for all of our enterprise offerings to provide our customers and partners a single vendor relationship and simplify the way we do business. Previously, our storage and availability products and services were sold under Veritas pre merger buying programs, while our security products and services were sold under our historical buying programs. The combination of buying programs resulted in a change in the VSOE for some of our storage and availability products and services. This change, coupled with an increased number of maintenance renewals sold with a license component, resulted in a larger portion of revenues associated with contracts being classified as Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenue, which is subject to deferral, instead of Licenses revenue, which is generally recognized immediately. These factors resulted in lower recognized revenue growth rates in the first six months of fiscal 2008 and in fiscal 2007. Some of our customers have also requested increased flexibility in product deployments in site license arrangements. This may result in an increase in deferred revenue and classification of all revenues associated with the specific contract as Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenue, which is recognized over time, as VSOE may not exist in certain types of flexible deployment contracts. As a result of our initiative to offer customers a more comprehensive solution to protect and manage a global IT infrastructure, we have seen an increasing amount of services sold in conjunction with license and maintenance contracts. Inclusion of such services often results in increased deferred revenue and increased classification of revenues as Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenue, as VSOE may not exist for some of the services provided. Net revenues increased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to the new sales of the storage and availability products and services from our July 2005 acquisition of Veritas for the full twelve months in the 2007 period compared to nine months in the 2006 period. We were required under purchase accounting rules to reduce the amount of Veritas deferred revenue that we recorded in connection with the acquisition of Veritas to an amount equal to the fair value of our contractual obligation related to that deferred revenue. Unless otherwise specified, storage and availability products and services include products and services obtained through our acquisition of Veritas, and complementary products and services obtained or developed subsequent to such acquisition. These products and services contributed $518 million of net revenues in the June 2006 quarter for which there was no comparable revenue in the June 2005 quarter. The remainder of the revenue increase is due to 36 Table of Contents increases in our consumer products revenue and services offerings of $181 million and $92 million, respectively, due to continued growth in demand. The segment discussions that follow further describe the revenue increases. These increases are partially offset by the effects of the increased flexibility in contract terms and the combination of our buying programs discussed above. Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenues Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenues $ 4,561,566 $ 3,917,572 $ 2,873,211 Percentage of total net revenues 78 % 75 % 69 % Period over period change $ 643,994 $ 1,044,361 16 % 36 % Beginning with the release of our 2006 consumer products that include content updates in the December 2005 quarter, we recognize revenue related to these products ratably. As a result, this revenue has been classified as Content, subscriptions, and maintenance beginning in the December 2005 quarter. In addition, as noted above, increased flexibility in contract terms and the combination of our buying programs in the December 2006 quarter have impacted revenue recognition. These changes caused a larger portion of revenue associated with contracts to be classified as Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenue, which is subject to deferral, instead of Licenses revenue, which is generally recognized immediately, as discussed above in Total Net Revenues. Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenues increased in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to an increase of $394 million in revenue related to enterprise products and services, excluding acquired Altiris products. This increase in enterprise product and services revenue was largely attributable to higher amortization of deferred revenue, for the reasons discussed above in Total Net Revenues. In addition, Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenues increased $82 million from new sales of products from our acquisition of Altiris for which there is no comparable revenue in the prior period. The increase is also due to a favorable foreign currency impact. Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenues increased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to the new sales of the storage and availability products and services from our acquisition of Veritas for the full twelve months in the 2007 period compared to nine months in the 2006 period. These products and services contributed $250 million of Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenues in the June 2006 quarter for which there was no comparable revenue in the June 2005 quarter. In addition, in fiscal 2007, Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenue related to our enterprise products increased $271 million due to the fact that the amount of revenue recognized in the comparable 2006 period was lower as a result of the purchase accounting adjustment discussed under Total Net Revenues above. Revenue related to our consumer products increased $179 million as compared to the 2006 period due primarily to growth in Norton Internet Security products and online revenues due to growth in the use of the Internet, and increased awareness and sophistication of security threats. Enterprise products and services, excluding Veritas related products and services, increased $309 million as a result of growth in our maintenance renewals due to an increasing installed base, increased demand for our service offerings, other acquisitions, and the combination of our buying programs implemented in the December 2006 quarter, which impacted our VSOE methodology and classification of Licenses revenue and Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenue, as discussed above under Total Net Revenues. 37 Table of Contents Licenses revenue Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Licenses revenues $ 1,312,853 $ 1,281,794 $ 1,270,181 Percentage of total net revenues 22 % 25 % 31 % Period over period change $ 31,059 $ 11,613 2 % 1 % Licenses revenue increased in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to an increase of $112 million from new sales of products from our acquisition of Altiris for which there is no comparable revenue in the prior period and a favorable foreign currency impact. This increase is offset by a decrease in license revenues from the Security and Compliance and Storage and Server Management segments of $68 million (excluding acquired Altiris products, which mitigated the decline in license revenues from those products), as a result of increased flexibility in contract terms and the combination of our buying programs in the December 2006 quarter, causing a larger portion of revenue associated with contracts to be classified as Content, subscriptions, and maintenance revenue instead of Licenses revenue during the first half of fiscal 2008. Licenses revenue increased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to the inclusion of the storage and availability products obtained through our acquisition of Veritas for the full twelve months in the 2007 period compared to nine months in the 2006 period. These products contributed $268 million of Licenses revenues in the June 2006 quarter for which there was no comparable revenue in the June 2006 quarter. Excluding this June 2006 contribution, License revenues were down in both Security and Data Management and Data Center Management segments as a result of the increased flexibility in contract terms and the combination of our buying programs implemented in the December 2006 quarter, both of which caused a larger portion of contracts to be classified as Content, subscriptions, and maintenance, which is subject to deferral, instead of Licenses revenue, which is generally recognized immediately, as discussed above in Total Net Revenues. Net revenues and operating income by segment Consumer Products segment Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Consumer Products revenues $ 1,746,089 $ 1,590,505 $ 1,409,580 Percentage of total net revenues 30 % 30 % 34 % Period over period change $ 155,584 $ 180,925 10 % 13 % Consumer Products operating income $ 938,627 $ 931,989 $ 950,508 Percentage of Consumer Products revenues 54 % 59 % 67 % Period over period change $ 6,638 $ (18,519 ) 1 % (2 )% Consumer Products revenues increased in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 due to an aggregate increase of $286 million in revenue from our Norton Internet Security and Norton 360 products. These increases are due to the increase in demand for these products during both fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008, as the revenue from our consumer products is generally recognized ratably over the 12 months after the product is sold. These increases are partially offset by aggregate decreases of $129 million in revenue from our Norton AntiVirus and Norton System Works products. This decrease results from our customers continued migration to our Norton Internet Security product and our new Norton 360 product, which offer broader protection and backup features to address the rapidly changing threat environment. Our electronic orders include sales derived from OEMs, subscriptions, upgrades, online sales, and renewals. Revenue from electronic orders (which includes sales of the aforementioned products) 38 Table of Contents grew by $174 million in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. Included in the total Consumer Products segment revenue increase is a favorable foreign currencies impact. Consumer Products revenues increased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to an increase of $293 million in revenue from our Norton Internet Security products. This increase was partially offset by aggregate decreases in revenue from our Norton AntiVirus and Norton System Workstm products of $100 million. These decreases resulted from our customers migration to the Norton Internet Security products, which offer broader protection to address the rapidly changing threat environment. Our electronic orders include OEM subscriptions, upgrades, online sales, and renewals. Revenue from electronic orders (which includes sales of our Norton Internet Security products and our Norton AntiVirus products) grew by $221 million in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. Total expenses from our Consumer segment increased $183 million in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase is primarily a result of higher OEM placement fees, which is primarily a result of placement fees being recognized as operating expense as discussed in Cost of Revenues below. Total expenses increased $160 million in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. The increase is driven by higher OEM placement fees. The balance of the increase is primarily a result of higher salary and related expenses. Security and Compliance Segment Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Security and Compliance revenues $ 1,630,133 $ 1,408,906 $ 1,303,476 Percentage of total net revenues 28 % 27 % 31 % Period over period change $ 221,227 $ 105,430 16 % 8 % Security and Compliance operating income $ 256,207 $ 223,374 $ 225,876 Percentage of Security and Compliance revenues 16 % 16 % 17 % Period over period change $ 32,833 $ (2,502 ) 15 % (1 )% Security and Compliance revenues increased in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to $194 million of new sales of products from our acquisition of Altiris for which there is no comparable revenue in the same prior year period. Included in the total Security and Compliance segment revenue increase is a favorable foreign currencies impact. Security and Compliance revenues increased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to new sales of our Enterprise Vault product, which was acquired with Veritas, for the full twelve months in the 2007 period compared to nine months in the 2006 period. This product contributed $38 million of revenue in the June 2006 quarter for which there was no comparable revenue in the June 2005 quarter. In addition the purchase accounting adjustment, discussed under Total Net Revenues above, contributed $20 million (cumulatively) in the September 2006, December 2006, and March 2007 quarters as compared to the comparable quarters of the prior year. In addition, revenues increased $34 million in fiscal 2007 as a result of acquisitions, excluding Veritas, for which there was not a full twelve months of revenue or no comparable revenue in fiscal 2006. Total expenses from our Security and Compliance segment increased $169 million in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase is primarily a result of higher salary and commissions which includes the impact of the fiscal 2008 Altiris and Vontu acquisitions. 39 Table of Contents Storage and Server Management Segment Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Storage and Server Management revenues $ 2,136,307 $ 1,906,607 $ 1,229,091 Percentage of total net revenues 36 % 37 % 30 % Period over period change $ 229,700 $ 677,516 12 % 55 % Storage and Server Management operating income $ 884,619 $ 779,573 $ 410,840 Percentage of Storage and Server Management revenues 41 % 41 % 33 % Period over period change $ 105,046 $ 368,733 13 % 90 % Storage and Server Management revenues increased in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to an aggregate increase in revenue from our Backup Exec, Storage Foundation, and Net Backup products of $203 million, driven by increased demand for products related to the standardization and simplification of data center infrastructure and higher amortization of deferred revenue, as a result of the higher amount of deferred revenue at the beginning of fiscal 2008 than at the beginning of fiscal 2007, for the reasons discussed above in Total Net Revenues. Included in the total Storage and Server Management segment revenue increase is a favorable foreign currencies impact. Storage and Server Management revenues increased in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to new sales of storage and availability products from our acquisition of Veritas for the full twelve month period compared to nine months in the fiscal 2006 period. These products contributed $452 million of revenue in the June 2006 quarter for which there was no comparable revenue in the June 2005 quarter. The effect of the purchase accounting adjustment discussed under Total Net Revenues above also contributed $220 million to the increase in revenue in fiscal 2007. Excluding the effects of the aforementioned items, revenue in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 was relatively flat due to the combination of the buying programs for all of our enterprise offerings in the December 2006 quarter. This combination resulted in lower recognized revenue and increased deferred revenue as discussed under Total Net Revenues above. Total expenses from our Storage and Server Management segment increased $130 million in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase is primarily a result of the impairment of intangible assets related to the APM business of $95 million. Additionally, increases in Sales expenses drove costs higher for the Storage and Server Management group. Services Segment Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Services revenues $ 359,955 $ 293,226 $ 201,217 Percentage of total net revenues 6 % 6 % 5 % Period over period change $ 66,729 $ 92,009 23 % 46 % Services operating loss $ (26,511 ) $ (43,606 ) $ (20,450 ) Percentage of Services revenues (7 )% (15 )% (10 )% Period over period change $ 17,095 $ (23,156 ) (39 )% 113 % Services revenues increased in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to an increase in consulting services of $48 million as a result of increased demand for a more comprehensive solution by purchasing our service offerings in conjunction with the purchase of our products and the increased desire for customers to augment the 40 Table of Contents capabilities of their own IT staff with our onsite consultants. In addition, Services revenue increased $11 million due to increased demand for our Business Critical Services in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. Services revenue increased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to a $57 million increase in security consulting services and the inclusion of the storage and availability services obtained through our acquisition of Veritas for the full twelve months in the 2007 period compared to nine months in the 2006 period. Included in the above increase is $28 million of Services revenues from these acquired services offerings in the June 2006 quarter for which there was no comparable revenue in the June 2005 quarter. In addition, Services revenue increased $15 million due to increased demand for our Business Critical Services in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. Total expenses from our Services segment increased $32 million in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase is primarily a result of higher salary and wages to support the increase in revenue. Other segment Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Other revenues $ 1,935 $ 122 $ 28 Percentage of total net revenues 0 % 0 % 0 % Period over period change $ 1,813 $ 94 1486 % 336 % Other operating loss (1,450,662 ) (1,371,588 ) $ (1,292,809 ) Period over period change $ (79,074 ) $ (78,779 ) 6 % 6 % Revenue from our Other segment is comprised primarily of sunset products and products nearing the end of their life cycle. Revenues from the Other segment for fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 and for fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 were immaterial. The Other segment also includes general and administrative expenses; amortization of acquired product rights, other intangible assets, and other assets; charges, such as acquired in process research and development, stock based compensation, and restructuring; and certain indirect costs that are not charged to the other operating segments. Net revenues by geographic region Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Americas (U.S., Canada and Latin America) $ 3,095,493 (1) $ 2,840,572 (2) $ 2,257,937 (3) Percentage of total net revenues 53 % 54 % 54 % Period over period change $ 254,921 $ 582,635 9 % 26 % EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) $ 1,963,319 $ 1,644,177 $ 1,321,968 Percentage of total net revenues 33 % 32 % 32 % Period over period change $ 319,142 $ 322,209 19 % 24 % Asia Pacific/Japan $ 815,607 $ 714,617 $ 563,487 Percentage of total net revenues 14 % 14 % 14 % Period over period change $ 100,990 $ 151,130 14 % 27 % Total net revenues $ 5,874,419 $ 5,199,366 $ 4,143,392 41 Table of Contents (1) Americas includes net revenues from the United States of $2.8 billion, Canada of $171 million, and Latin America of $110 million during fiscal 2008. (2) Americas includes net revenues from the United States of $2.6 billion, Canada of $176 million, and Latin America of $104 million during fiscal 2007. (3) Americas includes net revenues from the United States of $2.0 billion, Canada of $140 million, and Latin America of $72 million during fiscal 2006. International revenues increased in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to increased revenues related to our Storage and Server Management and Security and Compliance products of $272 million, as a result of increased demand for products related to the standardization and simplification of data center infrastructure and higher amortization of deferred revenue for the reasons described above. These products contributed $179 million in increased revenues in the Americas in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. Sales of new products from our acquisition of Altiris increased revenues in the international regions and the Americas by $72 million and $122 million, respectively, for which there is no comparable revenue in the prior period. Growth in revenues in international regions and the Americas from sales of products of our Consumer Products of $96 million and $60 million, respectively, was driven by prior period demand for Norton Internet Security products. Foreign currencies had a favorable impact on net revenues in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. International revenues increased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to new sales of storage and availability products and services from our acquisition of Veritas for the full twelve months in the 2007 period compared to nine months in the 2006 period. These products and services contributed $232 million of international revenues in the June 2006 quarter for which there was no comparable revenue in the June 2005 quarter. In the Americas, these products contributed $286 million in the June 2006 quarter for which there was no comparable revenue in the June 2005 quarter. In addition, a portion of the revenue increase in fiscal 2007 is due to the fact that the amount of revenue recognized in the comparable 2006 period was lower as a result of the purchase accounting adjustment discussed under Total Net Revenues above. The purchase accounting adjustment increased fiscal 2007 revenues by $188 million in the Americas and $83 million in the international regions compared to fiscal 2006. Growth in our Consumer Products segment, driven by Norton Internet Security, resulted in a $129 million increase in the international regions and a $52 million increase in the Americas in fiscal 2007 revenues versus fiscal 2006. Both domestic and international revenue from enterprise offerings were negatively impacted primarily due to the increased flexibility in our contract terms and the combination of our buying programs. These changes resulted in a larger portion of contracts being subject to deferral and a correspondingly lower amount of revenue recognized in the current period, as discussed in Total Net Revenues above. Foreign currencies had a favorable impact on net revenues in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006. We are unable to predict the extent to which revenues in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If international sales become a greater portion of our total sales in the future, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have a potentially greater impact on our revenues and operating results. Cost of Revenues Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 1,220,330 $ 1,215,826 $ 981,869 Gross margin 79 % 77 % 76 % Period over period change $ 4,504 $ 233,957 0 % 24 % Cost of revenues consists primarily of amortization of acquired product rights, fee based technical support costs, costs of billable services, payments to OEMs under revenue sharing arrangements, manufacturing and direct material costs, and royalties paid to third parties under technology licensing agreements. 42 Table of Contents Gross margin increased in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 due primarily to an increase in revenue and the fact that the terms of several of our OEM arrangements changed from revenue sharing arrangements to placement fee arrangements in late fiscal 2007. Placement fee arrangements are expensed on an estimated average cost basis, while revenue sharing arrangements are generally amortized ratably over a one year period. In addition, we realized year over year increases in services and technical support costs. Cost of content, subscriptions, and maintenance Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Cost of content, subscriptions, and maintenance $ 826,339 $ 823,525 $ 621,636 As a percentage of related revenue 18 % 21 % 22 % Period over period change $ 2,814 $ 201,889 0 % 32 % Cost of content, subscriptions, and maintenance consists primarily of fee based technical support costs, costs of billable services, and payments to OEMs under revenue sharing agreements. Cost of content, subscriptions, and maintenance decreased as a percentage of the related revenue in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The year over year decrease in cost of content, subscriptions, and maintenance as a percentage of the related revenue is primarily driven by higher revenues and lower OEM royalties as a percentage of revenue more than offsetting increases in Services expenses. We expect the impact of moving many of our OEM payments from Cost of revenues to Operating expenses to be reduced in future periods as the change had been in effect for most of fiscal 2008. Our past OEM payments were primarily revenue sharing arrangements, which were generally amortized to Cost of revenues over a one year period. Several of the arrangements negotiated in late fiscal 2007 are placement fee arrangements, for which the costs are expensed on an estimated average cost basis and classified as operating expenses. Cost of licenses Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Cost of licenses $ 44,664 $ 49,968 $ 45,943 As a percentage of related revenue 3 % 4 % 4 % Period over period change $ (5,304 ) $ 4,025 (11 )% 9 % Cost of licenses consists primarily of royalties paid to third parties under technology licensing agreements and manufacturing and direct material costs. Cost of licenses decreased as a percentage of the related revenue in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The year over year decrease in Cost of licenses as a percentage of the related revenue is primarily attributable to higher revenues and to a lesser extent due to lower obsolescence reserves. Fiscal 2007 had relatively high obsolescence reserves due to the Companys decision to exit certain aspects of the appliance business. 43 Table of Contents Amortization of acquired product rights Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Amortization of acquired product rights $ 349,327 $ 342,333 $ 314,290 Percentage of total net revenues 6 % 7 % 8 % Period over period change $ 6,994 $ 28,043 2 % 9 % Acquired product rights are comprised of developed technologies and patents from acquired companies. The amortization in fiscal 2008 was higher than fiscal 2007 primarily due to amortization associated with the Altiris acquisition, offset in part by certain acquired product rights becoming fully amortized. For further discussion of acquired product rights and related amortization, see Notes 4 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expense Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 2,415,264 $ 2,007,651 $ 1,499,904 Percentage of total net revenues 41 % 39 % 36 % Period over period change $ 407,613 $ 507,747 20 % 34 % Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of total revenues increased to 41% in fiscal 2008 as compared to 39% in fiscal 2007. The percentage increase and increase in absolute dollars in sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 is primarily due to higher employee compensation expense as a result of the Altiris and Vontu acquisitions and the OEM placement fees as discussed above under Financial Results and Trends. We negotiated new contract terms with some of our OEM partners in fiscal 2007, for which the expense commenced being recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. In addition, these new contract terms had the effect of moving our OEM payments from Cost of revenues to Operating expenses. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of total revenues increased to 39% in fiscal 2007 as compared to 36% in fiscal 2006. The percentage increase and increase in absolute dollars in sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 is primarily due to higher employee compensation expense of approximately $335 million resulting from an increase in employee headcount. Higher employee compensation expense includes the effect of adopting of SFAS No. 123R, which added $56 million of stock based compensation expense in fiscal 2007 for which there is no comparable expense in fiscal 2006. In addition, approximately $171 million of the increase is due to an additional three months of sales and marketing expenses related to the Veritas acquisition, which is included for the full year of fiscal 2007 as compared to nine months in fiscal 2006. Advertising expense increased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 primarily as a result of changes in our OEM arrangements. Research and development expense Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Research and development $ 895,242 $ 866,882 $ 682,125 Percentage of total net revenues 15 % 17 % 16 % Period over period change $ 28,360 $ 184,757 3 % 27 % 44 Table of Contents Research and development expense as a percentage of total revenues has remained relatively constant in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006. The increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 is attributable to a higher employee compensation expense primarily related to the Altiris and Vontu acquisitions. The increase in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 was due primarily to higher employee compensation expense of approximately $108 million resulting from an increase in employee headcount. Higher employee compensation expense includes the effect of adopting of SFAS No. 123R, which added $57 million of stock based compensation expense in fiscal 2007 for which there is no comparable expense in fiscal 2006. In addition, approximately $96 million of the increase is due to an additional three months of research and development expenses related to the Veritas acquisition, which is included for the full year of fiscal 2007 as compared to nine months in fiscal 2006. General and administrative expense Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) General and administrative $ 347,642 $ 316,783 $ 228,563 Percentage of total net revenues 6 % 6 % 6 % Period over period change $ 30,859 $ 88,220 10 % 39 % General and administrative expense as a percentage of total revenues has remained relatively constant in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007, and fiscal 2006. The increase in general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2008 as compared with fiscal 2007 is primarily due to higher salaries and wages resulting from the Altiris and Vontu acquisitions offset by a gradual reduction in headcount during fiscal 2008. The increase in absolute dollars in general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 was due primarily to higher employee compensation expense of approximately $73 million resulting from an increase in employee headcount. Higher employee compensation includes the effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R, which added $24 million of stock based compensation expense in fiscal 2007 for which there is no comparable expense in fiscal 2006. In addition, approximately $20 million of the increase is due to an additional three months of general and administrative expenses related to the Veritas acquisition, which are included for the full year in fiscal 2007 as compared to nine months in fiscal 2006. Amortization of other purchased intangible assets Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Amortization of other purchased intangible assets $ 225,131 $ 201,502 $ 148,822 Percentage of total net revenues 4 % 4 % 4 % Period over period change $ 23,629 $ 52,680 12 % 35 % Other purchased intangible assets are comprised of customer base, tradenames, partnership agreements, and marketing related assets. The increased amortization in fiscal 2008 is primarily associated with a full year of amortization of intangible assets associated with the Altiris purchase which occurred in April 2007. The increased amortization in fiscal 2007 is primarily associated with a full year of amortization associated with the Veritas acquisition which occurred in July 2005 and the acquisitions of Company i Limited and 4FrontSecurity, Inc. that occurred during fiscal 2007. For further discussion of other intangible assets from acquisitions and related amortization, see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. Acquired in process research and development (IPRD) During fiscal 2006, we wrote off IPRD totaling $285 million, of which $284 million was in connection with our acquisition of Veritas. The IPRD was written off because the acquired technologies had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative uses. Technological feasibility is defined as being equivalent to 45 Table of Contents completion of a beta phase working prototype in which there is no remaining risk relating to the development. At the time of the acquisition in July 2005, Veritas was developing new products in multiple product areas that qualify as IPRD. These efforts included NetBackup 6.1, Backup Exec 11.0, Server Management 5.0, and various other projects. At the time of the acquisition, it was estimated that these IPRD development efforts would be completed over the following 12 to 18 months at an estimated total cost of $120 million. As of March 28, 2008, all IPRD projects had been completed on schedule and within expected costs. Restructuring Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Restructuring $ 73,914 $ 70,236 $ 24,918 Percentage of total net revenues 1 % 1 % 1 % Period over period change $ 3,678 $ 45,318 5 % 182 % In fiscal 2008, we approved and initiated a restructuring plan (2008 Plan) to reduce costs, implement management structure changes and optimize the business structure and discontinue certain products. Projects within the plan began in the third quarter of 2008 and are expected to be completed by the fourth quarter of 2009. Total remaining costs of the restructuring plan, consisting of severance and benefits and excess facilities costs, are estimated to range between approximately $80 million and $110 million. In fiscal 2007, we entered into restructuring plans (2007 Plans) to consolidate facilities and reduce operating costs through headcount reductions. We also consolidated certain facilities and exited facilities as a result of earlier acquisitions. In fiscal 2006, we entered into restructuring plans (2006 Plans) to reduce job redundancy in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific Japan and to consolidate certain facilities in Europe and Asia. Future severance and benefit costs and facilities charges for both the 2007 Plans and 2006 Plans are not expected to be significant. We recognized $74 million in restructuring charges in fiscal 2008 compared to $70 million in fiscal 2007. Charges in fiscal 2008 were $59 million of severance and benefit costs and $15 million for contract termination costs for exited facilities. In fiscal 2008, severance and benefit costs of $42 million related to the 2008 Plan and $16 million related to the 2007 Plans. In addition, facilities contract termination costs of $9 million related to the 2007 Plans and $5 million were acquisition related charges for Altiris and Vontu that occurred in fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2007, severance and benefit costs of $69 million and an insignificant amount for facilities termination costs for the 2007 Plans. Included in the $69 million for severance and benefit costs were $13 million which were acquisition related charges for Veritas and others that occurred in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2006, we recognized $18 million of severance and benefit costs and $7 million for contract termination costs for exited facilities were recognized. Integration In fiscal 2007, we recorded $1 million of integration charges in connection with our April 2007 acquisition of Altiris. These integration charges consisted of costs incurred for consulting services and other professional fees. In connection with our acquisition of Veritas, we recorded integration costs of $16 million in fiscal 2006, which consisted primarily of costs incurred for consulting services and other professional fees. 46 Table of Contents Non operating Income and Expense Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Interest income $ 76,896 $ 122,043 $ 108,404 Interest expense (29,480 ) (27,233 ) (17,996 ) Settlements of litigation, net 58,500 Other income (expense), net 4,327 17,070 (1,650 ) Total $ 110,243 $ 111,880 $ 88,758 Percentage of total net revenues 2 % 2 % 2 % Period over period change $ (1,637 ) $ 23,122 (1 )% 26 % The decrease in Interest income in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 was due to lower average interest rates and a lower average Cash and cash equivalents and Short term investment balances. The increase in Interest income in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 was due primarily to a higher average cash and cash equivalents and investment balances and higher average interest rates realized on those balances. Interest expense in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was due primarily to the interest and amortization of issuance costs related to our 0.75% and 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes issued in June 2006. Fiscal 2007 also includes interest and accretion related to the 0.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes that we assumed in connection with our acquisition of Veritas. The 0.25% Veritas Convertible Subordinated Notes were paid in full during August 2006. Interest expense in fiscal 2006 was due primarily to the Veritas 0.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes. In fiscal 2008 we recorded a net gain from Settlements of litigation. In fiscal 2007, Other income (expense), net includes a gain of $20 million on the sale of our buildings in Milpitas, California, and Maidenhead, United Kingdom. Provision for Income Taxes Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in thousands) Tax provision on earnings $ 248,673 $ 227,242 $ 227,068 Effective tax rate on earnings 35 % 36 % 63 % Tax provision on repatriation $ $ $ (21,197 ) Total tax provision $ 248,673 $ 227,242 $ 205,871 Total effective tax rate 35 % 36 % 57 % Our effective tax rate on Income before income taxes was approximately 35%, 36%, and 57% in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 reflects the impact of non deductible stock based compensation offset by U.S. tax benefits from domestic manufacturing deductions. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 reflects the impact of non deductible stock based compensation offset by foreign earnings taxed at a lower rate than the U.S. tax rate. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 reflects the impact of the IPRD charges and other acquisition related charges that are nondeductible for tax reporting purposes, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at a lower rate than the U.S. tax rate, and the effect of the true up of taxes on repatriated earnings. We believe realization of substantially all of our deferred tax assets as of March 28, 2008 of $694 million, after application of the valuation allowance, is more likely than not based on the future reversal of temporary tax differences. Realization of approximately $55 million of our deferred tax assets as of March 28, 2008 is dependent upon future taxable earnings exclusive of reversing temporary differences in certain foreign jurisdictions. Levels of future taxable income are subject to the various risks and uncertainties discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, set forth 47 Table of Contents in this annual report. An additional valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets may be necessary if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the net deferred tax assets will not be realized. We will assess the need for an additional valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. Of the $38 million total valuation allowance provided against our deferred tax assets, approximately $30 million is attributable to acquisition related assets, the benefit of which will reduce goodwill when and if realized. The valuation allowance decreased by $22 million in fiscal 2008; $19 million was reclassified as FIN 48 reserves, $3 million was attributable to acquisition related assets. American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 Repatriation of foreign earnings In the March 2005 quarter, we repatriated $500 million from certain of our foreign subsidiaries that qualified for the 85% dividends received deduction under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, or the Jobs Act, enacted in October 2004. In May 2005, clarifying language was issued by the U.S. Department of Treasury and the IRS with respect to the treatment of foreign taxes paid on the earnings repatriated under the Jobs Act and in September 2005, additional clarifying language was issued regarding the treatment of certain deductions attributable to the earnings repatriation. As a result of this clarifying language, we reduced the tax expense attributable to the repatriation by approximately $21 million in fiscal 2006. Other tax matters On March 29, 2006, we received a Notice of Deficiency from the IRS claiming that we owe additional taxes, plus interest and penalties, for the 2000 and 2001 tax years based on an audit of Veritas. The incremental tax liability asserted by the IRS was $867 million, excluding penalties and interest. On June 26, 2006, we filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court protesting the IRS claim for such additional taxes. On August 30, 2006, the IRS answered our petition and this issue has been docketed for trial in U.S. Tax Court and is scheduled to begin on June 30, 2008. In the March 2007 quarter, we agreed to pay $7 million out of $35 million originally assessed by the IRS in connection with several of the lesser issues covered in the assessment. The IRS has also agreed to waive the assessment of penalties. In a Motion to Amend filed March 20, 2008, the IRS moved to change its position on the remaining issue in the case. If allowed, the IRS new position would decrease the incremental tax liability for the remaining issue to approximately $545 million, excluding interest. We strongly believe the IRS position with regard to this matter is inconsistent with applicable tax laws and existing Treasury regulations, and that our previously reported income tax provision for the years in question is appropriate. No payments will be made on the assessment until the issue is definitively resolved. If, upon resolution, we are required to pay an amount in excess of our provision for this matter, the incremental amounts due would be accounted for principally as additions to the cost of the Veritas purchase price. Any incremental interest accrued subsequent to the date of the Veritas acquisition would be recorded as an expense in the period the matter is resolved. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we made $90 million of tax related adjustments to the purchase accounting for Veritas, consisting of $120 million of additional pre acquisition tax reserve related adjustments, partially offset by a $30 million reduction in other pre acquisition taxes payable. While we strongly disagree with the IRS over both its transfer pricing methodologies and the amount of the assessment, we have established additional tax reserves for all Veritas pre acquisition years to account for both contingent tax and interest risk. On March 30, 2006, we received notices of proposed adjustment from the IRS with regard to an unrelated audit of Symantec for fiscal 2003 and 2004. The IRS claimed that we owed an incremental tax liability with regard to this audit of $110 million, excluding penalties and interest. The incremental tax liability primarily relates to transfer pricing matters between Symantec and a foreign subsidiary. On September 5, 2006, we executed a closing agreement with the IRS with respect to the audit of Symantecs fiscal 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns. The closing agreement represents the final assessment by the IRS of additional tax for these fiscal years of approximately $35 million, including interest. Based on the final settlement, a tax benefit of $8 million was recognized. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we increased our tax reserves by an additional $64 million in connection with all open Symantec tax years (fiscal 2003 to 2006). Since these reserves relate to licensing arising from acquired technology, the additional accruals are primarily offset by deferred taxes. 48 Table of Contents We are as yet unable to confirm our eligibility to claim a lower tax rate on a distribution made from a Veritas foreign subsidiary prior to the acquisition. The distribution was intended to be made pursuant to the Jobs Act, and therefore eligible for a 5.25% effective U.S. federal rate of tax, in lieu of the 35% statutory rate. We are seeking a ruling from the IRS on the matter. Because we were unable to obtain this ruling prior to filing the Veritas tax return in May 2006, we have paid $130 million of additional U.S. taxes. Since this payment relates to the taxability of foreign earnings that are otherwise the subject of the IRS assessment, this additional payment reduced the amount of taxes payable accrued as part of the purchase accounting for pre acquisition contingent tax risks. For further information, see Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report and Critical Accounting Estimates Income Taxes above. In connection with the note hedge transactions discussed in Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report, we established a deferred tax asset of approximately $232 million to account for the book tax basis difference in the convertible notes resulting from note hedge transactions. The deferred tax asset has been accounted for as an increase to Capital in excess of par value. The Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, effective March 31, 2007. FIN 48 addresses the accounting for and disclosure of uncertainty in income tax positions, by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to satisfy before being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 was a decrease in tax reserves of $16 million, resulting in a decrease in Veritas goodwill of $10 million, an increase of $5 million to Retained Earnings balance, and a $1 million increase in Capital in excess of par value. Upon adoption, the gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits at March 31, 2007 was $456 million, exclusive of interest and penalties. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources of Cash We have historically relied primarily on cash flow from operations, borrowings under a credit facility, issuances of convertible notes and equity securities for our liquidity needs. Key sources of cash include earnings from operations and existing cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, and our revolving credit facility. In July 2006, we entered into a five year $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility that expires in July 2011. During fiscal 2008, we borrowed $200 million under the credit facility. In order to maintain availability to draw on the credit facility, we must maintain certain covenants, including a specified ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization as defined as well as various other non financial covenants. As of March 28, 2008, we were in compliance with these covenants. As of March 28, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.9 billion and short term investments of $537 million resulting in a net liquidity position (unused availability of the credit facility, cash and cash equivalents and short term investments) of $3.2 billion. We believe that our cash balances, cash that we generate over time from operations, and our borrowing capacity will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Uses of Cash Our principal cash requirements include working capital, capital expenditures, payments of principal and interest on our debt and payments of taxes. In addition, we regularly evaluate our ability to repurchase stock, pay debts and acquire other businesses. Acquisition Related. We generally use cash to fund the acquisition of other businesses and from time to time use our revolving credit facility when necessary. In April 2007, we acquired the outstanding common stock of 49 Table of Contents Altiris, Inc. and paid $841 million, net of cash acquired, which reflects $165 million of cash acquired and $17 million of cash paid for transaction costs. In November 2007, we acquired Vontu, Inc. and paid $298 million, net of cash acquired. We used $200 million borrowed under a five year, $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility to partially fund the purchase. In January 2008, we acquired Transparent Logic Technologies, Inc., and paid $12 million in cash. During fiscal 2007, we paid cash of $33 million for the acquisitions of other businesses. During fiscal 2006, we had net sales of available for sale securities of $3.4 billion and cash of $541 million acquired through the acquisition of Veritas, net of cash expenditures for our other acquisitions in fiscal 2006. In connection with the Veritas acquisition, we assumed Veritas 0.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes, or the Veritas 0.25% Notes, with a principal amount of $520 million due August 1, 2013, and a short term loan with a principal amount of euros 411 million, which was paid in its entirety in fiscal 2006. In August 2006, we repurchased all $520 million of the Veritas 0.25% notes with cash, which reflected principal plus interest. Stock Repurchases. During fiscal 2008, we repurchased a total of 81 million shares, or $1.5 billion, of our Companys common stock. At March 28, 2008 we have $1 billion remaining under the plan authorized by the Board of Directors in June 2007. Issuance of Convertible Senior Notes. In June 2006, we issued $1.1 billion principal amount of 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes (Senior Notes) due June 15, 2011, and $1.0 billion principal amount of 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due June 15, 2013, to initial purchasers in a private offering for resale to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to SEC Rule 144A. Concurrently with the issuance of the Senior Notes, we entered into note hedge transactions with affiliates of certain of the initial purchasers whereby we have the option to purchase up to 110 million shares of our common stock at a price of $19.12 per share. The following table provides information about our significant contractual obligations and commitments as of March 28, 2008: Payments Due by Period Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2014 Total Fiscal 2009 and 2011 and 2013 and thereafter Other (In thousands) Convertible senior notes(1) $ 2,100,000 $ $ $ 1,100,000 $ 1,000,000 $ Purchase obligations(2) 366,911 308,665 58,118 128 Operating leases(3) 520,752 102,799 153,156 100,785 164,012 Norton royalty agreement(4) 17,854 7,023 8,792 1,642 397 Uncertain tax positions(5) 479,743 479,743 Total contractual obligations $ 3,485,260 $ 418,487 $ 220,066 $ 1,202,555 $ 1,164,409 $ 479,743 (1) Senior Notes are due in fiscal 2012 and 2014. Holders of the Senior Notes may convert their Senior Notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Upon conversion, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock, up to the principal amount of the note. Amounts in excess of the principal amount, if any, may be paid in cash or in stock at our option. As of March 28, 2008, the conditions to conversion had not been met. (2) The amounts are associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding, and specify terms. (3) Operating lease obligations include $13 million related to exited or excess facility costs related to restructuring activities. (4) In June 2007, the Company amended an existing royalty agreement with Peter Norton for the licensing of certain publicity rights. As a result, the Company recorded a long term liability reflecting the net present value of expected future royalty payments due to Mr. Norton. (5) At March 28, 2008, we reflected $480 million in long term taxes payable related to uncertain tax benefits. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond the next twelve months due to uncertainties in the timing of the commencement and settlement of potential tax audits and controversies. 50 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes, for the periods indicated, selected items in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used for) Operating activities $ 1,818,653 $ 1,666,235 $ 1,536,896 Investing activities (1,526,218 ) (222,455 ) 3,619,605 Financing activities (1,065,553 ) (1,309,567 ) (3,910,064 ) Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents 104,309 109,199 (22,248 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (668,809 ) $ 243,412 $ 1,224,189 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2008 resulted largely from net income of $464 million, plus non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $824 million, non cash stock based compensation expense of $164 million, income taxes payable of $197 million and an increase in deferred revenue of $127 million. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in non cash deferred income taxes of $180 million. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2007 resulted largely from net income of $404 million, plus non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $811 million, non cash stock based compensation expense of $154 million, and an increase in deferred revenue of $400 million. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in income taxes payable of $182 million, primarily due to the timing of tax payments. Investing Activities Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Cash used for investing activities was $1.5 billion for 2008 compared to $222 million for 2007. Cash used in fiscal 2008 primarily related to an aggregate payment of $1.2 billion in cash for acquisitions which included Altiris for $841 million and Vontu for $298 million and the joint venture with Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. for $150 million. During fiscal 2007, we paid $33 million for acquisitions of other businesses. Cash used in fiscal 2007 primarily related to the net increase in property and equipment partially offset by the net purchase of short term investments. Both periods reflect consistent levels of capital purchasing partially offset by proceeds from the sale of exited or excess facilities. Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Cash used in investing activities was $222 million in fiscal 2007 compared to cash provided by investing activities of $3.6 billion for 2006. Cash used in fiscal 2007 for the acquisition of other businesses was $33 million compared to cash provided by investing activities of $541 million acquired through the acquisition of Veritas, net of cash expenditures for our other acquisitions in fiscal 2006. Additionally, we recognized net proceeds from sales of available for sale securities of $3.4 billion during fiscal 2006, which was primarily associated with the liquidation of assets assumed in the acquisition of Veritas. Financing Activities Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Cash used in financing was $1.1 billion in fiscal 2008 compared to $1.3 billion in 2007. Cash used in fiscal 2008 primarily related to the repurchase of 81 million shares of our common stock for $1.5 billion which was partially offset by the net proceeds of $224 million received from the issuance of our common stock through employee stock plans and the $200 million borrowed under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility to finance the Vontu acquisition. Cash used in fiscal 2007 primarily related to the repurchase of 162 million shares of our common stock for $2.8 billion whereby $1.5 billion was funded by the proceeds from the issuance of Senior Notes for $2.1 billion. Also during fiscal 2007, we purchased hedges related to the Senior Notes for $592 million and paid $520 million for the repurchase of Veritas 0.25% Convertible 51 Table of Contents Subordinated Notes, or the 0.25% Notes assumed in the Veritas acquisition; these amounts were partially offset by $326 million received from the sale of common stock warrants and $230 million received from the issuance of our common stock through employee stock plans. Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: During fiscal 2006, we repurchased 174 million shares of our common stock for $3.6 billion and repaid the entire balance of $491 million from a short term loan assumed in the Veritas acquisition, partially offset by $210 million in proceeds from the issuance of our common stock through employee stock plans. Purchase price adjustment As a result of Company i meeting target billings conditions in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, as was stipulated in the Company i merger agreement, we paid the former shareholders of Company i an additional $11 million in cash. This increase in purchase price resulted in a respective increase in goodwill. Convertible senior notes Holders of the Senior Notes may convert their Senior Notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Upon conversion, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of Symantec common stock, up to the principal amount of the note. Amounts in excess of the principal amount, if any, may be paid in cash or in stock at our option. As of March 28, 2008, the conditions to convertibility of the Senior Notes had not been met. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of underlying revenue. Certain royalty commitments have minimum commitment obligations; however, as of March 28, 2008 all such obligations are insignificant. Indemnification As permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is, or was, serving at our request in such capacity. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is not limited; however, we have directors and officers insurance coverage that reduces our exposure and may enable us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. We believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements in excess of applicable insurance coverage is minimal. We provide limited product warranties and the majority of our software license agreements contain provisions that indemnify licensees of our software from damages and costs resulting from claims alleging that our software infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Historically, payments made under these provisions have been immaterial. We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred. Newly Adopted and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Recent accounting pronouncements In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. SFAS No. 162 defines the order in which accounting principles that are generally accepted should be followed. SFAS No. 162 is effective 60 days following the SECs approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 162 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2008, the FASB finalized Staff Position (FSP) No. 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets. The position amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement of Financial 52 Table of Contents Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The position applies to intangible assets that are acquired individually or with a group of other assets and both intangible assets acquired in business combinations and asset acquisitions. FSP 142 3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of FSP 142 3 on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. SFAS No. 161 requires disclosures of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of SFAS No. 161 on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51. The standard changes the accounting for noncontrolling (minority) interests in consolidated financial statements including the requirements to classify noncontrolling interests as a component of consolidated stockholders equity, to identify earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests reported as part of consolidated earnings, and to measure the gain or loss on the deconsolidated subsidiary using the fair value of the noncontrolling equity investment. Additionally, SFAS No. 160 revises the accounting for both increases and decreases in a parents controlling ownership interest. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 160 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised R), Business Combinations. This standard changes the accounting for business combinations by requiring that an acquiring entity measures and recognizes identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date fair value with limited exceptions. The changes include the treatment of acquisition related transaction costs, the valuation of any noncontrolling interest at acquisition date fair value, the recording of acquired contingent liabilities at acquisition date fair value and the subsequent re measurement of such liabilities after acquisition date, the recognition of capitalized in process research and development, the accounting for acquisition related restructuring cost accruals subsequent to acquisition date, and the recognition of changes in the acquirers income tax valuation allowance. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption prohibited. We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) on our consolidated financial statements. The accounting treatment related to pre acquisition uncertain tax positions will change when SFAS No. 141(R) becomes effective, which will be in first quarter of our fiscal year 2010. At such time, any changes to the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions related to pre acquisition periods will be recorded through income tax expense, where currently the accounting treatment would require any adjustment to be recognized through the purchase price. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. In August 2007, the FASB issued proposed FASB FSP No. APB 14 a, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement). The proposed FSP would require the issuer of convertible debt instruments with cash settlement features to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument. The debt would be recognized at the present value of its cash flows discounted using the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance. The equity component would be recognized as the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the note and the fair value of the liability. The proposed FSP would also require an accretion of the resultant debt discount over the expected life of the debt. The proposed transition guidance requires retrospective application to all periods presented, and does not grandfather existing instruments. In March 2008, the FASB approved moving the proposed FSP to final guidance. The final guidance will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years. Entities will be required to apply guidance retrospectively for all periods presented. If the FSP is issued as proposed, we expect the increase in non cash interest expense recognized on our consolidated financial statements to be significant. 53 Table of Contents In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of SFAS No. 115. SFAS No. 159 permits companies to choose to measure certain financial instruments and certain other items at fair value and requires unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected to be reported in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 159 on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 establishes a framework for measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities. This framework is intended to provide increased consistency in how fair value determinations are made under various existing accounting standards which permit, or in some cases require, estimates of fair market value. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 1, Application of SFAS No. 157 to SFAS No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under SFAS No. 13 and FSP No. FAS 157 2, Effective Date of SFAS No. 157. Collectively, the Staff Positions defer the effective date of SFAS No. 157 to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis at least annually, and amend the scope of SFAS 157. We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of SFAS 157 on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 06 1, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Service Provider to a Manufacturer or Reseller of Equipment Necessary for an End Customer to Receive Service from the Service Provider. EITF Issue No. 06 1 requires that we provide disclosures regarding the nature of arrangements in which we provide consideration to manufacturers or resellers of equipment necessary for an end customer to receive service from us, including the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income. EITF Issue No. 06 1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2007. We do not expect the adoption of EITF Issue No. 06 1 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices. We may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. We do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our short term investment portfolio and the potential losses arising from changes in interest rates. Our investment objective is to achieve the maximum return compatible with capital preservation and our liquidity requirements. Our strategy is to invest our cash in a manner that preserves capital, maintains sufficient liquidity to meet the cash requirements of the company, maximizes yields consistent with approved credit risk, and limits inappropriate concentrations of investment by sector, credit, or issuer. We classify our cash equivalents and short term investments in accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. We consider investments in instruments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents. We classify our short term investments as available for sale, and short term investments consist of marketable debt or equity securities with original maturities in excess of 90 days. Our cash equivalents and short term investment portfolios consist primarily of money market funds, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, and U.S. government and government sponsored debt securities. Our short term investments do not include equity investments in privately held companies. Our short term investments are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income within Stockholders equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The amortization of premiums and discounts on the investments, realized gains and losses, and declines in value judged to be other than temporary on available for sale securities are included in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We use the specific identification method to determine cost in calculating realized gains and losses upon sale of short term investments. 54 Table of Contents The following table presents the fair value and hypothetical changes in fair values on short term investments sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): Value of Securities Value of Securities Given an Given an Interest Interest Rate Increase of Rate Decrease of X X Basis Points (bps) Fair Value Basis Points (bps) 150 bps 100 bps 50 bps As of (25 bps) (75 bps) March 28, 2008 $ 1,301 $ 1,302 $ 1,304 $ 1,305 $ 1,305 $ 1,306 March 30, 2007 $ 1,770 $ 1,772 $ 1,775 $ 1,778 $ 1,779 $ 1,782 The modeling technique used above measures the change in fair market value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. Market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus 150 bps, plus 100 bps, plus 50 bps, minus 25 bps, and minus 75 bps. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk We conduct business in 36 currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency exposure risk. Foreign currency risks are associated with our cash and cash equivalents, investments, receivables, and payables denominated in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates will result in foreign exchange gains and losses on these foreign currency assets and liabilities and are included in Other income (expense), net. Our objective in managing foreign exchange activity is to preserve stockholder value by minimizing the risk of foreign currency exchange rate changes. Our strategy is to primarily utilize forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures. Under our program, gains and losses in our foreign currency exposures are offset by losses and gains on our forward contracts. Our forward contracts generally have terms of 35 days or less. At the end of the reporting period, open contracts are marked to market with unrealized gains and losses included in Other income (expense), net. The following table presents a sensitivity analysis on our foreign forward exchange contract portfolio using a statistical model to estimate the potential gain or loss in fair value that could arise from hypothetical appreciation or depreciation of foreign currency (in millions): Value of Contracts Given X% Value of Contracts Appreciation of Given X% Depreciation of Foreign Currency Notional Foreign Currency Foreign Forward Exchange Contracts 10% 5% Amount (5)% (10)% Purchased, March 28, 2008 $ 196 $ 189 $ 180 $ 171 $ 160 Sold, March 28, 2008 $ 352 $ 369 $ 387 $ 407 $ 430 Purchased, March 30, 2007 $ 176 $ 169 $ 161 $ 153 $ 143 Sold, March 30, 2007 $ 258 $ 270 $ 284 $ 299 $ 316 Equity Price Risk In June 2006, we issued $1.1 billion principal amount of 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 and $1.0 billion of 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013. Holders may convert their Senior Notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Upon conversion, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of Symantec common stock, up to the principal amount of the note. Amounts in excess of the principal amount, if any, may be paid in cash or in stock at our option. Concurrent with the issuance of the Senior Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and separately, warrant transactions, to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the Senior Notes and to mitigate any negative effect such conversion may have on the price of our common stock. 55 Table of Contents For business and strategic purposes, we also hold equity interests in several privately held companies, many of which can be considered to be in the start up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky and we could lose a substantial part or our entire investment in these companies. These investments are recorded at cost and classified as Other long term assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of March 28, 2008, these investments had an aggregate carrying value of $6 million. 
 
