FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20030605151428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
    
ITEM 9. Information Provided Under Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 12, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 3, 2003, Pall Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended May 3, 2003. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
East Hills, NY (June 03, 2003)Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) today reported sales and earnings results for the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2003, which ended May 3, 2003.
Sales for the third quarter increased 39% to $421.5 million compared with $302.4 million last year. Foreign exchange rates increased sales 12% or $36.6 million. Earnings increased nearly 70% and were $44.6 million, or 36 cents per share, excluding restructuring and other charges, compared to last year's $26.4 million, or 21 cents per share. Reported earnings for the third quarter were $40.4 million, or 33 cents per share.
Sales for the nine months increased 32% to $1.142 billion compared to $861.9 million last year. Foreign exchange rates increased sales 8% or $68.1 million. Earnings were $92.8 million, or 75 cents per share, excluding restructuring and other charges, compared to last year's $64.3 million, or 52 cents per share. Restructuring and other charges of $46.4 million, or 36 cents per share (including the pro forma tax effect), were recorded in the nine months primarily to write-off the in-process research and development from the acquired Filtration and Separations Group ("FSG"). This reduced the reported results for the nine months to earnings of $48.6 million, or 39 cents per share.
Eric Krasnoff, Pall's Chairman and CEO, said, "We are pleased to have produced another solid quarter. Sales increased 39%. Earnings and earnings per share each increased nearly 70%. Our results exceeded analyst consensus estimates. Cash flow for the nine months was strong and net debt has been reduced by $63 million.
The first nine months of the fiscal year have seen substantial progress on our three main goals. Those are to improve profitability, to aggressively reduce debt and to successfully integrate FSG into Pall. We are well ahead of our targets in each of these areas.
The end of April marked our first anniversary as the "new Pall" with FSG now fully integrated into our sales, marketing and technical organizations. We are selling more to shared and new customers than we could have alone. As important, operating margins have improved to 19.8% from 16.9% in the third quarter last year.
Among the highlights for the quarter:
All Industrial business segments experienced double-digit sales growth in the quarter ranging from 25 to 57%. In total, Industrial sales were up 47%. Operating profit improved 114% to $43.7 million. The General Industrial segment, which serves industries including food and beverage, water processing and chemicals, achieved sales growth of 57%. Microelectronics posted its fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit sales growth in a semiconductor market that is slowly recovering. Aerospace also turned in a double-digit increase in sales as Military Aerospace sales increased 55%. Commercial Aerospace held steady in the quarter.
Turning to Life Sciences, BioPharmaceuticals grew 16% compared to last year's third quarter, buoyed by strong biotechnology sales. Medical sales increased 6% sequentially over the second quarter but were flat compared to the same quarter last year. Blood filter sales were down 1% compared to last year as we continue to focus on improving margins. Third quarter Medical profits came in at 19.5%, building on the pattern of sequential operating profit improvement that began with 7.8% in the first quarter.
By region, Europe posted sales growth of 39%, Asia's sales grew by 36% and Western Hemisphere sales were up by 15% compared to last year's third quarter. With sales growth of $33 million in the quarter compared to our second quarter, operating margins in each geography have improved considerably."
Commenting on the quarter's earnings growth compared to last year, Mr. Krasnoff said, "The 15 cent improvement in earnings per share is attributable to organic growth, aided by continuing cost reduction programs, FSG synergies and also includes about 4 cents per share for foreign exchange translation. Our estimate of $7 million in acquisition-related synergies for this quarter indicates that full year synergies continue to run ahead of our goal."
Looking ahead, Mr. Krasnoff continued, "We anticipate earnings per share for the year in the range of $1.14 to $1.19. The midpoint of this range is an increase of 9 cents per share from the midpoint of our prior guidance range and, if achieved, represents a 42% increase from the prior year's 82 cents per share."
Tomorrow, June 4, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. EST, Pall Corporation will host its quarterly earnings conference call. Individuals can access the webcast on the home page of the Company's website, www.pall.com. Listening to the webcast requires speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player audio software. The webcast will be archived for 14 days.
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separations and purification. Pall's business is organized around two broad markets: Life Sciences and Industrial. The Company provides leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, transfusion medicine, semiconductors, municipal drinking water and aerospace. Total revenues in the last twelve months were about $1.5 billion. The Company is headquartered in East Hills, New York. Further information can be found on its Web site www.pall.com.
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; regulatory approval and market acceptance of new technologies; changes in product mix and product pricing and in interest rates and cost of raw materials; the Company's success in enforcing its patents and protecting its proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments; and domestic and international competition in the Company's global markets. Additional information regarding these and other factors is available on the web at www.pall.com and is included in the Company's reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of such reports can be obtained, without charge, at: www.sec.gov.
Financial Tables to Follow...
PALL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Amounts in thousands)
 
PALL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Amounts in thousands except per share data)
(a) Restructuring and other c
harges for the nine months includes $37,600 (30 cents per share) of acquired in-process research and development and $8,735 (6 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) of restructuring costs inclusive of $5,036 (3 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) incurred in the third quarter.
PALL CORPORATION MARKET SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
(a) Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
(a)
PALL CORPORATION MARKET SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
(a) Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
(a) Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Contact:
John Adamovich,
Pall Corporation
Tel: (516) 801-9808


