FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20040304142025.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
ITEM 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
ITEM 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On March 2, 2004, Pall Corporation reported its results of operations for its fiscal second quarter ended January 31, 2004. A copy of the press release issued by the Company in this connection is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
East Hills, NY (March 2, 2004)  Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) today reported sales and earnings results for the second quarter and six months ended January 31, 2004.
Sales for the quarter increased 10% to $428.1 million compared to $388.5 million last year. Earnings on a pro forma basis increased 5.3% to $33.7 million or 26 cents per share as compared to $32.0 million or 26 cents per share last year. The effect of foreign currency translation added $35.1 million to revenues and increased pro forma earnings per share by approximately 2 cents.
Sales for the six months increased 11% to $802.4 million compared to $720.7 million last year. Foreign currency translation increased sales by $60.4 million and pro forma earnings per share by approximately 4 cents. For the six months, earnings on a pro forma basis increased 16.2% to $56.0 million or 44 cents per share as compared to $48.2 million or 39 cents per share last year.
Restructuring and other charges of $13.7 million or 6 cents per share, including the pro forma tax effect, were recorded in the quarter primarily to increase environmental reserves. This reduced the pro forma results for the quarter to reported earnings of $24.9 million or 20 cents per share as compared to $31.4 million or 25 cents per share last year.
Eric Krasnoff, Pall's Chairman and CEO, said, "The second quarter showed particularly strong Asian results and solid organic growth in our revitalized Western Hemisphere businesses. This was offset by the result in Europe.
The non-repeating sales last year in the Aerospace segment attributable to the Iraqi war were largely booked in Europe We also saw European customers reducing their year-end inventories of disposable cartridges in response to the increased trade pressures of the strong Euro. This shifted our product mix to more systems sales which have lower margins than the corporate average.
.
We view these conditions as transient and are confident that Pall's fundamentals are in place to achieve our expectations for the full fiscal year. The company's backlog is at an all-time high. Pall's ambitious CoRe cost reduction program is also on schedule to recoup its investment and contribute to earnings this year.
Looking at sales in local currency:
Our overall Industrial business sales grew 1% in the quarter. Industrial's operating profit margin was 13.7%, with operating profit dollars comparable to last year. Here is more color on the three Industrial reporting segments.
Microelectronics sales increased 14%, with sales in Asia up 26% on the strength of a sustained upturn in the cyclical semiconductor industry. In the quarter operating profit margins were 20.9% compared to 17.7% last year, while operating profit dollars increased 44%.
Aerospace sales were down 11% on the heels of four consecutive quarters of double-digit growth. Military Aerospace sales, affected by the one-time sales mentioned previously, were down 18% in the quarter with the largest portion of the decrease in Europe. Commercial Aerospace sales held steady in the quarter. Aerospace operating profit margins at 25.0% remain the highest in the company.
General Industrial sales grew 2%, building on the first quarter. Within the segment, sales in the Power Generation division were particularly strong, up 23%. Sales in Fuels and Chemicals and Food and Beverage grew 7% and 4%, respectively. Sales in Machinery and Equipment were down 8%, mainly in Europe.
Our Life Sciences business posted a % increase in sales over last year. Operating margins were comparable to last year, while operating profit dollars increased 7.1%.
Sales in Medical increased 1% in the quarter and are up 7% for the six months. Operating margins in the quarter were 16.0%. We are on pace toward our goal of achieving a 20% operating margin in Medical for the full year.
Sales in BioPharmaceuticals were down % in the quarter. Again, weakness in Europe and some delays in large systems orders were the culprits. The smaller BioSciences division was down almost 5% as it continues to be hampered by laboratory research spending cuts. The BioPharmaceuticals operating profit margin of 19.2% approximates last year's margin.
By region, Asia's sales grew 16% in the quarter, with particular strength in Microelectronics, BioPharmaceuticals and the General Industrial segments. The Western Hemisphere grew 4% and Europe's sales declined 7%. Operating margins in the Western Hemisphere and Europe reflect the reduction in Aerospace sales. Asia which has a very small Aerospace component, saw its operating profits soar in tandem with increased sales."
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "Three weeks ago we kicked off the purchase of Pall stock under the $200 million stock repurchase program. While the purpose is to reduce the share count, we also see it as a sound investment in the future."
Tomorrow, March 3, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. EST, Pall Corporation will host its quarterly earnings conference call. Individuals can access the webcast on the home page of the Company's website, . Listening to the webcast requires speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player audio software. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
www.pall.com
About Pall Corporation:
Pall Corporation is the leader in the rapidly growing fields of filtration, separations and purification. Pall's business is organized around two broad markets: Life Sciences and Industrial. The company provides leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, transfusion medicine, semiconductors, municipal drinking water, aerospace and broad industrial markets. Total revenues are $1.6 billion. The Company headquarters are in East Hills, New York with operations in more than 30 countries. Further information is available at .
www.pall.com
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; regulatory approval and market acceptance of new technologies; changes in product mix and product pricing and in interest rates and cost of raw materials; the Company's success in enforcing its patents and protecting its proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments; and domestic and international competition in the Company's global markets. Additional information regarding these and other factors is available on the web at www.pall.com and is included in the Company's reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of such reports can be obtained, without charge, at: www.sec.gov.
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess Pall's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of Pall's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing Pall's financial position and results of operations. Pall has chosen to provide this information to facilitate
meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of on-going operations.
PALL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (Amounts in thousands)
PALL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (Unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Restructuring and other charges include $11,500 (5 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) to increase environmental reserves in the second quarter and $2,168 (1 cent per share, after pro forma tax effect) and $3,741 (2 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) in the
(a)
second quarter and six months, respectively, primarily related to the restructuring of operations in Europe and Japan. Offsetting this was a $5,276 (2 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) adjustment to decrease a pension liability in the first quarter.
Restructuring and other charges for the six months includes $37,600 (30 cents per share) of acquired in-process research and development and restructuring costs of $2,328 (2 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) inclusive of $585 (1 cent per share, after pro forma tax effect) incurred in the second quarter.
(b)
PALL CORPORATION MARKET SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION (Unaudited) (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
PALL CORPORATION MARKET SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION (Unaudited) (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
Contact:
John Adamovich Pall Corporation Tel: (516) 801-9810


