FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20040603160757.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
ITEM 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
ITEM 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On June 1, 2004, Pall Corporation reported its results of operations for its fiscal third quarter ended April 30, 2004. A copy of the press release issued by the Company in this connection is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
East Hills, NY (June 1, 2004)  Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) today reported sales and earnings results for the third quarter and nine months ended April 30, 2004.
Sales for the quarter increased 10% to $463.9 million compared to $421.5 million last year. Earnings on a pro forma basis increased 5.3% to $47.0 million or 37 cents per share as compared to $44.6 million or 36 cents per share last year. The effect of foreign currency translation added $29.7 million to revenues and increased pro forma earnings per share by approximately 2 cents.
Sales for the nine months increased 11% to $1.27 billion compared to $1.14 billion last year. Pro forma earnings for the nine months increased 10.9% to $103.0 million or 81 cents per share as compared to $92.8 million or 75 cents per share last year. Foreign currency translation increased sales by $90.1 million and pro forma earnings per share by approximately 6 cents.
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman and CEO, said, "The third quarter showed a broad resurgence in our non-Aerospace Industrial businesses. Asia posted spectacular results and the Western Hemisphere shared in the industrial recovery.
The overall Industrial business in Europe outside of Aerospace also grew. Non-repeating sales related to the Iraqi conflict contributed to a drop of $7.7 million in Aerospace operating profit or 5 cents per share in the quarter.
The major investment in our CoRe (cost reduction) programs is gaining traction. I am pleased to report that S, G & A as a percentage of sales reduced by 100 basis points compared to last year and by 170 basis points sequentially. This is the last quarter to sustain substantial consulting costs related to these programs. The CoRe efforts are on track to deliver the savings expected for the fourth quarter and should build next year as manufacturing savings become more significant.
Now we will report sales in local currency starting with the Industrial segments. The third quarter showed a broad resurgence in our Industrial business with Microelectronics and the General Industrial segments posting broad gains.
Microelectronics sales increased 24% compared to last year. Sales in Asia and the Western Hemisphere grew 31% and 25%, respectively. In the quarter, operating profit margins were 20.4% and operating profit dollars increased 50%.
General Industrial sales grew 6%. General Industrial's operating profit margin was 14.0% and operating profit dollars increased 23.6% to $24.2 million. Within General Industrial, Water Processing grew 29% and its orders increased 39%. Power Generation's sales increased 13% and Fuels and Chemicals grew 5%. Food and Beverage sales were flat, though orders increased 15% over last year. Machinery and Equipment sales increased 3% in the quarter. Excluding a tools business we sold last quarter, our base Machinery and Equipment sales grew 7%. This is another confirmation of the generally strengthening industrial landscape.
Aerospace was down 20% with nearly all of the reduction caused by non-repeating military sales, primarily in Europe. Military Aerospace sales decreased nearly 37% while Commercial Aerospace posted modest growth. Aerospace operating margins were 20.3% in the quarter.
This adds up to an overall Industrial business sales increase of 3%. Industrial's operating profit margin was 16.3% with operating profit dollars increasing about 2% to $44.5 million.
Turning now to Life Sciences, sales were up 2% with good growth in Medical and the core Blood Business offset by lower sales in BioPharmaceuticals. Life Sciences operating profit margins were 21.6% and operating profit dollars were $41.4 million, up 4.3%.
Sales in Medical increased 7% with blood product sales and profits up strongly. Operating profit margins were 20.6% and operating profit dollars grew 17.8% to $19.3 million. Pall's new eBDS Bacterial Detection System has had a positive market reception and should contribute significantly next year.
Sales in BioPharmaceuticals were down 2% as stagnation in the plasma fractionation segment and the timing of capital equipment sales offset continuing growth in Biotechnology. The BioPharmaceuticals operating profit margin was a healthy 22.6%. Overall sales are expected to improve in the current quarter.
Looking at overall sales by region, Asia continued on a torrid pace. Sales were up 18% in the quarter following a 15% increase last quarter and a 16% increase in the first quarter. Asia's third quarter sales were propelled by a 13% increase in BioPharmaceuticals sales, a 22% increase in General Industrial sales, and a 31% increase in Microelectronics sales. Sales in the Western Hemisphere grew 4% while sales in Europe declined 4% due primarily to Aerospace."
Looking at the company's balance sheet Mr. Krasnoff said, "Our strong cash flow enabled us to reduce net debt by $39 million in the nine months and to repurchase $45 million of our stock in the quarter."
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "Orders are trending well and the company's backlog is at an all-time high. We are confident that our expectations for the full fiscal year will be achieved. "
Tomorrow, June 2, 2004, at 8:30 am ET, Pall Corporation will host its quarterly earnings conference call. Individuals can access the webcast on the home page of the Company's website, www.pall.com. Listening to the webcast requires speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player software. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
About Pall Corporation:
Pall Corporation is the leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separations and purification. Pall's business is organized around two broad markets: Life Sciences and Industrial. The Company provides leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, transfusion medicine, semiconductors, municipal drinking water, aerospace and broad industrial markets. Total revenues are $1.6 billion. The Company headquarters are in East Hills, New York with operations in more than 30 countries. Further information is available at .
www.pall.com
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; regulatory approval and market acceptance of new technologies; changes in product mix and product pricing and in interest rates and cost of raw materials; the Company's success in enforcing its patents and protecting its proprietary products and manufacturing techniques and its ability to achieve the savings anticipated from its cost reduction initiatives; global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments; and domestic and international competition in the Company's global markets. Additional information regarding these and other factors is available on the Web at and is included in the Company's reports filed with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of such reports can be obtained, without charge, at: .
www.pall.com
www.sec.gov
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess Pall's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of Pall's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing Pall's financial position and results of operations. Pall has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of on-going operations.
PALL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (Unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
PALL CORPORATION MARKET SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION (Unaudited) (Dollar Amounts in Thousands)
Contact: John Adamovich Pall Corporation Tel: (516) 801-9808


