FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20041203160537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Back to Contents
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On December 1, 2004, the registrant reported its results of operations for its fiscal first quarter ended October 31, 2004. A copy of the press release issued by the registrant in this connection is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant unless the registrant specifically states that the information is to be considered filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Back to Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Back to Contents

East Hills, NY (December 1, 2004)  Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) today reported sales and earnings results for the first quarter ended October 31, 2004.
Sales for the quarter increased 11% to $414.7 million compared to $374.3 million last year. Reported earnings were $21.7 million or 17 cents per share as compared to $24.7 million or 19 cents per share last year. Excluding restructuring and other charges, earnings on a pro forma basis increased 18% to $26.4 million or 21 cents per share as compared to $22.3 million or 18 cents per share last year. The effect of foreign currency translation added 5% to revenues and increased earnings per share by one cent.
Restructuring and other charges of $5.5 million were recorded in the quarter related to the Company's ongoing cost reduction and business realignment programs and the write-down of a strategic investment. Starting with quarter one, the BioSciences division results were recorded within the Medical segment. Information for the prior period has been restated accordingly.
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman and CEO, said, "We are pleased with the positive results for the quarter. The 11% top-line increase was accompanied by a decrease in both SG&A and Cost of Sales as a percentage of sales. We see this as further confirmation that our strategic business plans are working.
The results by geography, with sales reported in local currency, are:
Sales in Asia increased 24%, supported by 18% growth in Japan. The Asian growth was led by increases of 30% in BioPharmaceuticals, 25% in General Industrial and 27% in Microelectronics.
Sales in the Western Hemisphere grew 7%, driven by double-digit growth in Microelectronics, BioPharmaceuticals and General Industrial. In Europe, sales declined 2% primarily due to reduced sales in Aerospace and the sale of our machine tool business.
 
The results reported in local currency by business are:
Microelectronics, General Industrial and Aerospace combined for an overall Industrial business sales increase of 7%. The Industrial operating profit margin was 10.8% while operating profit dollars were a healthy $26.8 million.
Looking at the Industrial businesses by reporting segment, Microelectronics sales increased 25% compared to last year. Operating profit margins improved to 16.6% from 11.9% last year. New Pall products and increasing sales beyond our core chip manufacturing applications are driving growth.
General Industrial sales grew 8%. Systems sales were particularly robust. The operating profit margin was 8.3% and operating profit dollars increased by 3% to $13.2 million. Within General Industrial, Water Processing grew 27%. Power Generation's sales increased 26% and Fuels and Chemicals grew 19%. Food and Beverage sales were up slightly.
Aerospace sales were down 13% due to the timing of large projects. Military sales were down 26%. Commercial sales were flat, while orders were up 13% in the quarter. Aerospace operating margins were 13.1% in the quarter. Our overall outlook for Aerospace remains positive for the year.
Turning now to Life Sciences, sales increased 5% reflecting strong growth in BioPharmaceuticals. Life Sciences operating profit margins increased to 18.5% and operating profit dollars were up 23%. Sales in the BioPharmaceuticals segment increased 12% with particularly strong demand from the biotechnology sector. The BioPharmaceuticals operating profit margin was 23.9% and operating profit dollars were up 11%.
Within Medical, the blood filtration and hospital product sectors grew 5%. This gain was offset by the termination of IV filter usage by a major OEM customer due to the reformulation of its injectable drug. In our blood filtration business, eBDS (Bacterial Detection System) sales continue to grow and we are on schedule with our prion removal filter development. Medical operating profit margins improved to 14.5% and operating profit dollars were $13.8 million, up 42%.
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "During the quarter, we continued the execution of our CoRe (Cost Reduction) programs and they are showing through to the bottom line. Both Cost of Sales and SG&A as a percentage of sales reduced 10 basis points compared to last year. Our balance sheet also remains strong. We are off to a good start."
Tomorrow, December 2, 2004, at 8:30 am EST, Pall Corporation will host its quarterly earnings conference call. Individuals can access the webcast on the home page of the Company's website, www.pall.com. Listening to the webcast requires speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player software. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
About Pall Corporation:
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separations and purification. Pall's business is organized around two broad markets: Life Sciences and Industrial. The Company provides leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, semiconductor, water purification, aerospace and broad industrial markets. Total revenues are $1.8 billion. The Company headquarters are in East Hills, New York with extensive operations throughout the world. Visit Pall at .
www.pall.com
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; regulatory approval and market acceptance of new technologies; changes in product mix and product pricing and in interest rates and cost of raw materials; the Company's success in enforcing its patents and protecting its proprietary products and manufacturing techniques and its ability to achieve the savings anticipated from its cost reduction initiatives; global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments; and domestic and international competition in the Company's global markets. Additional information regarding these and other factors is available on the Web at and is included in the Company's reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of such reports can be obtained, without charge, at .
www.pall.com
www.sec.gov
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess Pall's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of Pall's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing Pall's financial position and results of operations. Pall has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of on-going operations.
Financial Tables Follow...
 
PALL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (Amounts in thousands)
Back to Contents
PALL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (Unaudited) (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
PALL CORPORATION MARKET SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION (Unaudited) (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
 


