FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20050725144852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
              Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
              Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
              Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
              Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 19, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Pall Corporation (the Registrant) approved amendments to several compensation plans as well as an agreement with Eric Krasnoff, the Registrants chief executive officer. The majority of these amendments were made in order to bring the plans and employment agreement into compliance with new tax deferral rules under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
The Pall Corporation 2005 Stock Compensation Plan was amended to provide that if a change in control (as defined in the Plan) should occur, payment with respect to a directors Annual Award Units will not be made until the director ceases to be a Board member, as provided under the general payment rule contained in the Plan.
The Pall Corporation 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan was amended to provide that any amount payable upon a change in control (as defined in the Plan) will be paid no later than 2 1/2 months following the close of the Registrants fiscal year in which the change in control occurs.
The Pall Corporation Supplementary Profit-Sharing Plan was amended to provide that in the case of a participant whose employment terminates for any reason other than death or disability and who is a key employee immediately before such termination, distribution of the participants Plan account balance will be delayed until six months after the date of his or her termination, or until the participants earlier death.
The Pall Corporation Management Stock Purchase Plan was amended in several respects in order to comply with the deferred compensation rules of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. These amendments covered: a) the time for making base salary unit elections; b) non-deferred payments for vested Plan units; and, c) deferral of payment for vested units. The amendments will not apply to any Plan participant who would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any of the base salary or bonus amounts he or she elects to convert to units under the Plan, or on any payment that is made to him or her under the Plan with respect to those units.
The employment agreement between the Registrant and Eric Krasnoff was amended to eliminate his right to choose whether his severance pay would be paid in installments or in a lump sum. His amended agreement provides that any severance pay payable to Mr. Krasnoff will be paid in a lump sum. Additionally, the interest rate to be used to calculate the net present value of this lump-sum payment will be based upon the yield to maturity on the issue of two-year U.S. Treasury Notes most recently offered by the U.S. Treasury Department for sale to the public prior to the date on which the Term of Employment ends. Mr. Krasnoffs agreement was also amended to provide that payment of his annual contract pension will commence immediately following the end of his term of employment.
Finally, Mr. Krasnoffs agreement was amended to provide that any payments to be made to him under the agreement upon his termination of employment will be delayed to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of section 409A. Any payments so delayed will be made to Mr. Krasnoff in a lump sum, with interest, as soon as permissible under section 409A.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c)     Exhibits.
               See the Exhibit Index on the page following the signature page of this report.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 10.1 PALL CORPORATION 2005 STOCK COMPENSATION PLAN _____ 1. PURPOSE This document sets forth the Pall Corporation 2005 Stock Compensation Plan as adopted by the Board of Directors of Pall Corporation on September 17, 2004, approved by shareholders at the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on November 17, 2004 and amended by the Board of Directors on July 19, 2005. The purpose of the Plan is to attract and retain individuals of outstanding ability to serve as employees in positions of responsibility with the Corporation and its Affiliated Companies, or to serve as non-employee directors of the Corporation, by providing them with the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest (or to increase their proprietary interest) in the Corporation, and to provide them with incentives and awards that will motivate their efforts and contributions towards the success of the Corporation and its Affiliated Companies and the growth of their businesses. 2. DEFINITIONS As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings: "AFFILIATED COMPANIES" shall mean each direct or indirect subsidiary of the Corporation. "ANNUAL AWARD UNITS" shall mean Units awarded to an Eligible Director pursuant to Section 8. "ANNUAL AWARD GRANT DATE" shall mean, with respect to any calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2005, January 5 of such year or, if January 5 of such year is not a Trading Day, the next day following January 5 of such year that is a Trading Day. "AWARD" shall mean the grant of any Option, Share or Unit to any Eligible Employee or Eligible Director under the Plan. "BENEFICIARY" shall mean the person or persons designated by a Participant in accordance with Section 15 to receive any payment that is required to be made under the Plan upon or after the Participant's death. "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation. "CEO" shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
"CHANGE IN CONTROL" means the occurrence of any of the following: (a) the "Distribution Date" as defined in Section 3 of the Rights Agreement dated as of November 17, 1989 between the Corporation and United States Trust Company of New York as Rights Agent, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated April 20, 1999, and as the same may have been further amended or extended to the time in question or in any successor agreement (the "Rights Agreement"); or (b) any event described in Section 11(a)(ii)(B) of the Rights Agreement; or (c) any event described in Section 13 of the Rights Agreement; or (d) the date on which the number of duly elected and qualified directors of the Corporation who were not either elected by the Board of Directors or nominated by the Board of Directors or its Nominating Committee for election by the shareholders shall equal or exceed one-third of the total number of directors of the Corporation as fixed by its by-laws; provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred, and no rights arising upon a Change in Control as provided in Section 12 hereof shall exist (other than the rights provided for in Section 12(b) hereof), to the extent that the Board of Directors so determines by resolution adopted and not rescinded prior to the Change in Control. "CODE" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "COMMITTEE" shall mean (i) the Board of Directors, with respect to any Award that may be granted, or that has been granted, to any Eligible Director; (ii) the Compensation Committee, with respect to any Award that may be granted, or that has been granted, to any Eligible Employee, except as otherwise provided in (iii); or (iii) the CEO, with respect to those specific matters pertaining to Awards to Eligible Employees who are not Elected Officers that are within the scope of the authority granted to the CEO under Section 14(d) or delegated to the CEO by the Compensation Committee under to Section 14(e). "COMMON STOCK" shall mean the common stock ($0.10 par value) of the Corporation. "COMPENSATION COMMITTEE" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. "CORPORATION" shall mean Pall Corporation, a New York Corporation. "COVERED EXECUTIVE" shall mean, with respect to any Award granted hereunder, any individual who at the Date of Grant of such Award is a "Covered Employee" of the Corporation for such year for purposes of section 162(m) of the Code. "DATE OF GRANT" shall mean, with respect to any Award, the date on which the Committee approves the grant of such Award, or such later date as may be specified as the date of grant of such Award in the instrument evidencing the grant of such Award. 2
"DISABILITY" shall mean, with respect to any Eligible Employee, such employee's "permanent and total disability" as defined in section 22(e)(3) of the Code or any successor provision. "DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT UNITS" shall mean additional Units credited with respect to a Participant's Restricted Units, Performance Units, or Annual Award Units pursuant to Section 6(c), Section 7(b) or Section 8(b). "DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE" shall mean each date on which the Corporation pays a dividend on its Common Stock. "ELECTED OFFICER" shall mean any individual who is an Elected Officer under Section 4.01(a)(i) of the By-Laws of the Corporation. "ELIGIBLE DIRECTOR" shall mean any member of the Board of Directors who is not an employee of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies. "ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE" shall mean any employee of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies who, in the judgment of the Committee, is expected to make significant contributions to the success of the Corporation and its Affiliated Companies and to the growth of their businesses. "FAIR MARKET VALUE" shall mean, with respect to any Share or Unit or any fractional Share or fractional Unit as of any date of reference herein, the closing price of a share of Common Stock as reported in the New York Stock Exchange Consolidated Transactions for such date or, if such date is not a Trading Day, on the next Trading Day preceding such date. "INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION" shall mean an Option that is an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code. "NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION" shall mean an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option. "OPTION" shall mean an option to purchase Shares granted pursuant to Section 5 of the Plan or, solely for purposes of Section 5(h)(ii), granted under any other stock option plan maintained by the Corporation. "PARTICIPANT" shall mean any Eligible Employee or Eligible Director who holds an Award granted under the Plan, and any successor, permitted transferee or Beneficiary that succeeds to such individual's interest in such Award. "PERFORMANCE GOALS" shall mean the performance goals established by the Committee in connection with Awards granted to Eligible Employees under Section 7 that must be met in order for payment to be made with respect to such Awards. "PERFORMANCE PERIOD" shall mean the period established by the Committee for measuring whether, and to what extent, any Performance Goals established in connection with any Award granted under Section 7 hereof have been met. 3
"PERFORMANCE SHARES" shall mean Shares that may be issued and delivered at the end of a Performance Period pursuant to an Award made to an Eligible Employee under Section 7, depending on the achievement, or the level of achievement, of one or more Performance Goals within such period, as provided in Section 7. "PERFORMANCE UNITS" shall mean Units credited to an Eligible Employee at the beginning of a Performance Period pursuant to an Award made to such employee under Section 7, and any Dividend Equivalent Units that are credited to the employee with respect to such Units during such Performance Period, payment with respect to which Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units depends on the achievement, or the level of achievement, of one or more Performance Goals within such period, as provided in Section 7. "PLAN" shall mean the Pall Corporation 2005 Stock Compensation Plan, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time. "PRO RATA PORTION" shall mean, with respect to any portion of the Restricted Shares or Restricted Units granted pursuant to an Award made hereunder to an Eligible Employee, or with respect to any Performance Shares or Performance Units included in an Award made hereunder to an Eligible Employee, the percentage determined by dividing (i) the number of months in the period commencing on the first day of the Restricted Period established for such portion of the Restricted Shares or Restricted Units so granted, or the Performance Period established for the Performance Shares or Performance Units so awarded, and ending on the date of the Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment, by (ii) the total number of months in such Restricted Period, or in such Performance Period. "RESTRICTED PERIOD" shall mean the period of time during which Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Units are subject to Restrictions as set forth in Section 6. "RESTRICTED SHARES" shall mean Shares which are granted subject to Restrictions pursuant to Section 6. "RESTRICTED UNITS" shall mean Units credited to an Eligible Employee subject to Restrictions at the beginning of a Restricted Period pursuant to an Award made to such employee under Section 6, and any Dividend Equivalent Units that are credited to the employee with respect to such Units during such Restricted Period as provided in Section 6. "RESTRICTIONS" shall mean the restrictions to which Restricted Shares or Restricted Units are subject under the provisions of Section 6. "RETIREMENT" shall mean the termination of a Participant's employment with the Corporation and all of its Affiliated Companies, if at the time of such termination of employment the Participant has attained age 62 and is eligible to receive a Retirement Benefit under the Pall Corporation Cash Balance Pension Plan or (ii), in the case of any Participant who is not a resident of the U.S., a similar type of benefit under any plan or program maintained by the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies (or to which the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies makes contributions) that provides benefits to Employees upon their retirement. 4
"SHARE" shall mean a share of Common Stock. "TERMINATION OF BOARD MEMBERSHIP" shall mean, with respect to any Eligible Director, his or her ceasing to be a member of the Board of Directors. "TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT" shall mean, with respect to any Eligible Employee, his or her ceasing to be employed by the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies. "TRADING DAY" shall mean any day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading. "UNIT" shall mean a unit of measurement equivalent to one share of Common Stock, with none of the attendant rights of a shareholder of such share, (including among the rights which the holder of a Unit does not have are the right to vote such share and the right to receive dividends thereon), except to the extent otherwise specifically provided herein. 3. AWARDS (a) Form of Awards. Awards under the Plan may be made in the form of Options, Restricted Shares, Restricted Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, and Annual Award Units. An Award in any of the foregoing forms other than Annual Award Units may be granted to any individual Eligible Employee, or to any group of Eligible Employees, upon terms and conditions that differ from the terms and conditions upon which any other Awards in the same form are made to other individual Eligible Employees or groups of Eligible Employees. (b) Written Instrument. Each Award made to an Eligible Employee or Eligible Director under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written instrument in such form as the Committee shall prescribe, setting forth the terms and conditions of the Award. The instrument evidencing the grant of any Award hereunder shall specify that the Award shall be subject to all of the terms and provisions of the Plan as in effect from time to time but subject to the limitation on amendments set forth in Section 16 of the Plan. (c) Surrender and Exchange of Awards. The Committee may in its discretion grant to a Participant who has been granted an Award under the Plan or an award under any other employee compensation or benefit plan maintained by the Corporation or any of its Affiliates (any such Award or award is referred to herein as a "Prior Award"), in exchange for the surrender and cancellation of such Prior Award or any portion thereof, a new Award under the Plan. As the Committee may determine in its discretion, the new Award so granted may be in a form different than that of the Prior Award surrendered, and may be granted subject to terms and conditions that differ from those to which the surrendered Prior Award were subject. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no grant of a new Award in exchange for a Prior Award may be made hereunder unless (i) the aggregate fair value of the new Award does not exceed the aggregate fair value of the Prior Award, determined as of the time the new Award is granted; and (ii) the grant of the new Award would not constitute a "repricing" of any Option or would not otherwise be treated as a "material revision" of the Plan for purposes of the applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange. 5
4. SHARES AVAILABLE FOR AWARDS Shares distributed in respect of Awards made under the Plan may be authorized but unissued Shares, Shares held in the treasury of the Corporation, or Shares purchased by the Corporation on the open market at such time or times and in such manner as it may determine. The Corporation shall be under no obligation to issue or acquire Shares in respect of an Award made under the Plan before the time when delivery of Shares is due under the terms of the Award. The number of Shares available for distribution in respect of Awards made under the Plan shall be subject to the following limitations: (a) The aggregate number of Shares that may be distributed in respect of Awards made under the Plan shall be limited to 5,000,000 Shares. Of that aggregate number, no more than 2,500,000 Shares in the aggregate shall be available for Awards of Restricted Shares, Restricted Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units and Annual Award Units. The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be issued pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall not exceed 2,500,000 Shares. (b) Upon the grant of any Award, the overall aggregate number of Shares available for further Awards under the Plan, and if the Award so granted was in a form subject to a limitation on the aggregate number of shares available for Awards in that form, the aggregate number of Shares available for further Awards under the Plan in that form, shall be reduced by the number of Shares subject to the Award so granted. (c) There shall be added back to the aggregate number of Shares available for the grant of Awards under the Plan, as determined under (a) and (b) above, the following: (i) any Shares as to which an Option granted hereunder has not been exercised at the time of its expiration, cancellation or forfeiture; (ii) any Shares that otherwise would have been issued upon the exercise of an Option granted hereunder that are surrendered in payment of the exercise price of such Option; (iii) any Shares included in any other form of Award granted hereunder, to the extent that the Participant's right to receive such Shares, or any cash payment in settlement of such Award, becomes forfeited; (iv) any Shares that otherwise would have been issued upon the exercise of an Option or in payment with respect to any other form of Award granted hereunder, that are surrendered in payment or partial payment of taxes required to be withheld with respect to the exercise of such option or the making of such payment; (v) any Shares represented by Restricted Units or Performance Units granted hereunder as to which payment is made in cash instead of by the issuance and delivery of Shares; and (vi) any Shares subject to an Option granted hereunder, or covered by any other form of Award made hereunder, to the extent such Option or other Award is surrendered in exchange for any other Award made hereunder, subject to the limitations set forth in the last sentence of Section 3(c) hereof. (d) The limitations provided in this Section 4 shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 13. 5. AWARDS OF OPTIONS. Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 4 and to the other terms and conditions of the Plan, Options may be granted under the Plan to such Eligible Employees for the purchase of such number of Shares, at such times, and upon such terms and conditions, as the Committee in its discretion may determine. Options shall be granted in accordance with the provisions set forth below. 6
(a) Type of Options. Each Option granted hereunder shall be identified in the instrument evidencing such grant as either (i) an Option intended to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option, or (ii) an Option that shall be treated as a Non-Qualified Stock Option. (b) Maximum Number of Shares Subject to Options. The total number of Shares with respect to which Options may be granted to any Eligible Employee during any period of 24 consecutive months shall not exceed 300,000 Shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 13. (c) Term of Options. The term during which an Option may be exercised shall be such period of time as determined by the Committee and specified in the Option, but in no event may the term of any Option exceed ten years from the Date of Grant of the Option. Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan to the contrary, no Option may be exercised after its expiration. (d) Exercise of Options. Each Option granted hereunder shall become exercisable, in whole or in part, at such time or times during its term as the instrument evidencing the grant of such Option shall specify. To the extent that an Option has become exercisable pursuant to the preceding sentence, it may be exercised thereafter at any time or from time to time during its term, as to any or all Shares as to which the Option has become and remains exercisable, subject to the provisions of (e) below. (e) Termination of Employment. Except as the instrument evidencing the grant of an Option may otherwise provide, the portion of any outstanding Option held by an Eligible Employee on the date of his or her Termination of Employment that has not become exercisable prior to such date, and the portion of such Option which was exercisable but had not been exercised prior to such date, shall be forfeited on such date. The instrument evidencing the grant of an Option may provide for the portion of the Option that is exercisable at the time of the Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment to remain exercisable, and for the portion of such Option that is not yet exercisable at such time to become exercisable in accordance with the terms of the Option and remain exercisable thereafter, during such period of time after the date on which the Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment occurs (but not beyond the expiration of the term of the Option), in such circumstances and subject to such terms and conditions, as are specified in such instrument. However, to the extent that any Option granted hereunder to an Eligible Employee as an Incentive Stock Option is exercised more than three months after the date of such employee's Termination of Employment for any reason other than Disability, or more than one year after such date if the employee's Termination of Employment occurred because of Disability, the Option shall be treated as a Non-Qualified Stock Option for purposes of the Plan. 7
(f) Exercise Price and Method of Exercise. The price at which Shares may be purchased upon any exercise of an Option shall be the price per share determined by the Committee and specified in the instrument evidencing the grant of such Option, but in no event shall the exercise price per share be less than (i) the Fair Market Value of a Share determined as of the Date of Grant of the Option, or (ii), if greater, the par value of a Share. An Option shall be exercised by delivery of a written notice of exercise, in a form satisfactory to the Committee, to the Corporation at its principal business office and addressed to the attention of the Corporation's Secretary or such other person as the Corporate Secretary may have designated to receive such notice.. The notice shall specify the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised. The notice shall be accompanied by payment of the exercise price of the Shares for which the Option is being exercised, which payment shall be made under one or more of the methods of payment provided in (g) below. An Option may not be exercised at any one time as to less than 100 Shares, or less than the number of Shares to which the Option is then exercisable if that number is less than 100 Shares. (g) Payment. Payment of the exercise price for Shares purchased upon the exercise of an Option shall be made by one, or by a combination of any, of the following methods: (i) in cash, which may be paid by check or other instrument acceptable to the Corporation, or by wire transfer of funds, in each case in United States dollars; (ii) if permitted by the Committee and subject to any terms and conditions it may impose on the use of such methods, by (A) the delivery to the Corporation of other Shares owned by the Participant, or (B) the surrender to the Corporation of Shares that otherwise would have been delivered to the Participant upon exercise of the Option; (iii) to the extent permissible under applicable law, through any cashless exercise sale and remittance procedure that the Committee in its discretion may from time to time approve; (iv) to the extent permissible under applicable law and permitted by the Committee, by the execution by the Participant and delivery to the Corporation of a promissory note or other instrument evidencing the Participant's agreement to pay part or all of the option exercise price on a deferred or installment payment basis, upon such terms and conditions (including without limitation terms requiring Shares purchased upon the exercise of the Option to be pledged to the Corporation to secure payment of any outstanding balance of the option exercise price ) as the Committee shall require; or (v) any other method of payment as the Committee may from time to time approve. For purposes of determining the portion of the exercise price payable upon the exercise of an Option that will be treated as satisfied by the delivery or surrender of Shares pursuant to clause (ii) (A) or (B) above, Shares so delivered or surrendered shall be valued at their Fair Market Value determined as of the Trading Day next preceding the date on which the Option is exercised. (h) Incentive Stock Options. Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be subject to the following provisions: (i) No Incentive Stock Option may be granted under the Plan after November 16, 2014, unless the shareholders of the Corporation have approved an extension of the period for granting Incentive Stock Options under the Plan beyond that date. 8
(ii) To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan and under all other stock option plans maintained by the Corporation are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year shall exceed $100,000, the Incentive Stock Options so exercisable shall be treated as Non-Qualified Stock Options. For purposes of the foregoing, the Fair Market Value of Shares as to which any Incentive Stock Option may be exercised shall be determined as of the date on which such Option is granted. The determination of whether the limitation set forth in the second preceding sentence shall apply with respect to any Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan shall be made in accordance with applicable provisions of section 422 of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder. (iii) No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to an Eligible Employee if, as of the Date of Grant of such Option, such Eligible Employee owns stock possessing more than ten percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation, unless (A) the exercise price per Share under such Option is at least 110% percent of the Fair Market Value of a Share determined as of the Date of Grant of such Option, and (B) such Option is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the Date of Grant of such Option. (iv) The instrument evidencing the grant of any Incentive Stock Option shall require that if any Shares acquired upon the exercise of such option are disposed of within 2 years from the Date of Grant of such option, or within one year from the date as of which the Shares disposed of were transferred to the Participant pursuant to the exercise of such option, the Participant shall give the Corporation written notice of such disposition, within ten days following the date of such disposition. (i) Other Option Provisions. The instrument evidencing the grant of any Option hereunder may contain such other terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or any applicable law, as the Committee may determine. (j) Rights of a Shareholder. Upon the exercise of an Option or any portion thereof in accordance with the Plan, the provisions of the instrument evidencing the grant of such Option and any applicable rules and regulations established by the Committee, the holder of the Option shall have all of the rights of a shareholder of the Corporation with respect to the Shares issued as a result of such exercise. 6. AWARDS OF RESTRICTED SHARES AND RESTRICTED UNITS Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 4 and to the other terms and conditions of the Plan, Restricted Shares or Restricted Units may be granted to such Eligible Employees, at such times, and in such amounts, as the Committee may determine in its discretion. Restricted Shares and Restricted Units shall be granted in accordance with the provisions set forth below. 9
(a) Restrictions and Restricted Period. At the time of each grant of Restricted Shares or Restricted Units to any Participant, the Committee shall establish a period of time within which the Restricted Shares or Restricted Units covered by such grant (and the Participant's right to receive payment with respect to such restricted Units) may not be sold, assigned, transferred (other than a transfer to the Participant's Beneficiary occurring by reason of the Participant's death), made subject to gift, or otherwise disposed of, mortgaged, pledged or otherwise encumbered, whether voluntarily or by operation of law. The Committee in its discretion may prescribe a separate Restricted Period for any specified portion of the Restricted Shares or Restricted Units granted pursuant to any Award. (b) Rights While Restricted Shares Remain Subject to Restrictions. Restricted Shares granted to a Participant hereunder shall be issued to the Participant as of the Date of Grant as uncertificated shares. Until the Restrictions to which such shares are subject lapse in accordance with the provisions of (d) below or Section 12(c), the Restricted Shares granted to a Participant shall be held in the Participant's name in a bookkeeping account maintained by the Corporation. A separate account shall be maintained for all Restricted Shares granted to a Participant with a Restricted Period ending on the same date. Except for the Restrictions to which such shares are subject, and subject to the forfeiture provisions applicable under (e) below, a Participant shall have, with respect to all Restricted Shares so held for his account, all of the rights of a shareholder of the Corporation, including full voting rights with respect to such shares and the right to receive currently with respect to the Participant's Restricted Shares all dividends and other distributions payable generally on the Corporation's Shares. If any dividends or distributions so payable are paid in Shares, the Shares paid as a dividend or distribution with respect to a Participant's Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same Restrictions and provisions relating to forfeiture as apply to the Restricted Shares with respect to which they were paid. Such stock dividend Shares shall themselves be treated as Restricted Shares, and shall be credited to the same account which the Corporation maintains for those Restricted Shares of the Participant with respect to which such stock dividends or distributions were paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the instrument evidencing the grant of any Restricted Shares to a Participant so provides, all cash dividends and distributions payable generally on the Corporation's Shares that are otherwise payable with respect to the Restricted Shares granted to the Participant shall not be paid currently to the Participant but instead, shall be applied to the purchase of additional Shares for the Participant's account. The additional Shares so purchased shall be subject to the same Restrictions and provisions relating to forfeiture as apply to the Restricted Shares with respect to which they were paid. Such additional Shares shall themselves be treated as Restricted Shares, and shall be credited to the same account which the Corporation maintains for those Restricted Shares of the Participant with respect to which such dividends or distributions were paid. The purchase of any such additional Shares shall be made either (i) through the Corporation's Dividend Reinvestment Plan, or (ii) in accordance with such other procedure as may be specified in the instrument evidencing the grant of the Restricted Shares on which such dividends are paid. (c) Rights While Restricted Units Remain Subject to Restrictions. No Shares shall be issued at the time any award of Restricted Units is made hereunder. Restricted Units granted to a Participant hereunder shall be credited to a bookkeeping account maintained by the Corporation for the Participant. A separate account shall be maintained for all Restricted Units granted to a Participant with a Restricted Period ending on the same date, and for all Dividend Equivalent Units that are to be credited to such account in accordance with the next following paragraph. 10
Until the Restrictions applicable to the Restricted Units credited upon grant to any account maintained for a Participant in accordance with the preceding paragraph shall lapse, additional Restricted Units shall be credited to such account with respect to the Restricted Units so credited, as of each Dividend Payment Date. The number of additional Restricted Units to be credited shall be determined by first multiplying (A) the total number of Restricted Units standing to the Participant's credit in such account on the day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date (including all Dividend Equivalent Units credited to such account on all previous Dividend Payment Dates), by (B) the per-share dollar amount of the dividend paid on such Dividend Payment Date and then, dividing the resulting amount by the Closing Price of one share of Common Stock on such Dividend Payment Date. (d) Lapse of Restrictions and Payment. Upon the expiration of the Restricted Period for any Restricted Shares or Restricted Units granted to a Participant hereunder but subject to the provisions of (e) below, the Restrictions applicable to such Restricted Shares or Restricted Units shall lapse, and payment with respect to such Restricted Shares or Restricted Units (including any related Dividend Equivalent Units) shall be made in accordance with the following provisions: (i) In the case of Restricted Shares, payment shall be made by delivery to the Participant of a stock certificate for the number of such Restricted Shares, free and clear of all Restrictions to which such shares were subject. However, if the Restricted Shares with respect to which the applicable Restrictions have lapsed includes a fractional Share, payment for such fractional Share shall be made in cash, in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional Share determined as of the date on which such Restrictions lapsed. Delivery of such stock certificate and any such cash payment shall be made to the Participant as soon after the lapse of the applicable Restriction as is practicable. (ii) In the case of Restricted Units (including related Dividend Equivalent Units), payment shall be made (A) by the issuance and delivery to the Participant of a stock certificate for a number of Shares equal to the number of whole Restricted Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units with respect to which the applicable Restrictions have lapsed, and (B) by payment in cash for any fractional Restricted Unit payable as a result of the lapse of such Restrictions, in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional Restricted Unit determined as of the date as of which such Restrictions lapsed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment for Restricted Units (including related Dividend Equivalent Units) with respect to which the applicable Restrictions have lapsed shall be made solely in cash, in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of all of such Units and any fractional Unit, determined as of the date on which such Restrictions lapsed, if the instrument evidencing the grant of such Restricted Units so provides. Payment shall be made in such manner and at such time or times as provided in such instrument. If such instrument so permits, payment with respect to any part or all of an Eligible Employee's Restricted Units (including related Dividend Equivalent Units) may be deferred, at the Eligible Employee's election, upon such terms and conditions as are specified in such instrument. 11
(e) Termination of Employment. Upon an Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment for any reason prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period for any Restricted Shares or Restricted Units (and related Dividend Equivalent Units) standing to his or her credit immediately prior to such Termination of Employment, the Eligible Employee's right to receive payment with respect to such Restricted Shares, Restricted Units and Dividend Equivalent Units shall be forfeited and cancelled as of the date of such Termination of Employment, and no payment of any kind shall be made with respect to such Restricted Shares, Restricted Units and Dividend Equivalent Units, except as otherwise provided in the instrument or instruments evidencing the grant of such Shares or Units. If the Committee so determines in its discretion, the instrument evidencing the Award of such Restricted Shares or Restricted Units may provide that if the Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment prior to the end of the Restricted Period established for such Restricted Shares or Restricted Units occurs as a result of the Eligible Employee's death, Disability, Retirement, or for any other reason other than discharge by the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies for "cause" as defined in such instrument, payment shall be made with respect to all or a Pro Rata Portion of such Restricted Shares or Restricted Units and any related Dividend Equivalent Units. In such case, only the Eligible Employee's right to receive payment with respect to any remaining portion of the Restricted Shares or Restricted Units (and related Dividend Equivalent Units) for which such Restricted Period was established shall be cancelled and forfeited. Any payment required to be made with respect to an Eligible Employee's Restricted Shares or Restricted Units (and related Dividend Equivalent Units) pursuant to this paragraph shall be made as soon as practicable after the date of such employee's Termination of Employment, and shall be made in the manner specified in Section 6(d) (f) Notice of Code Section 83(b) Election. A Participant who files an election under section 83(b) of the Code to include in gross income the Fair Market Value of any Restricted Shares granted hereunder while such Shares are still subject to Restrictions shall furnish the Corporation with a copy of the election so filed by the Participant, within ten days of the filing of such election with the Internal Revenue Service. 7. AWARDS OF PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 4 and to the other terms and conditions of the Plan, Performance Shares or Performance Units may be granted to such Eligible Employees, at such times, in such amounts, and upon such terms and conditions, as the Committee may determine in its discretion. Performance Shares and Performance Units shall be granted in accordance with the provisions set forth below. 12
(a) Establishment of Performance Goals and Performance Targets. In connection with each Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units, the Committee shall establish in writing, and the instrument evidencing the grant of such Award shall specify, (i) the Performance Goal or Goals and the Performance Period that will apply with respect to such Award; (ii) the level or levels of achievement of the Performance Goal or Goals that must be met in order for payment to be made with respect to the Award; (iii) the number of Performance Shares that will be issued and delivered to the recipient of the Award, or the percentage of the Performance Units (and any related Dividend Equivalent Units) credited to the recipient in connection with the Award as to which payment will be made, if the Performance Goal or Goals applicable to such Award (A) have been fully achieved, (B) have been exceeded, or (C) have not been fully achieved but have been achieved at or beyond any minimum or intermediate level of achievement specified in the instrument evidencing the grant of such Award, and (iv) such other terms and conditions pertaining to the Award as the Committee in its discretion may determine. In connection with any such Award made to any Covered Executive, the matters described in the preceding sentence shall be established within such period of time as may be permitted by the regulations issued under section 162(m) of the Code. (b) Accounts and Dividend Equivalent Units for Performance Units Awards. No Shares shall be issued at the time any award of Performance Units is made hereunder. Performance Units granted to an Eligible Employee hereunder shall be credited to a bookkeeping account maintained by the Corporation for such employee. A separate account shall be maintained for all Performance Units included in each separate Award of Performance Units made to an Eligible Employee, and for all Dividend Equivalent Units that are to be credited with respect to the Performance Units included in such Award in accordance with the next following sentence. If the instrument evidencing the grant of any Award of Performance Units so provides, Dividend Equivalent Units shall be credited with respect to the Performance Units included in such Award on each Dividend Payment Date occurring within the Performance Period applicable to such Award in the same manner as Dividend Equivalent Units are credited with respect to Restricted Units during the applicable Restricted Period, as set forth in Section 6(c) above. (c) Limit on Award Amounts. The total number of Shares for which any Award of Performance Shares may be made to any Eligible Employee, and the total number of Units for which any Award of Performance Units may be made to any Eligible Employee (exclusive of any Dividend Equivalent Units credited with respect to the Performance Units awarded to such employee), may not exceed 75,000 Shares, or 75,000 Units, for each 12-month period included in the Performance Period established for such Award. The foregoing limits shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 13. (d) Performance Goals for Covered Executives. In the case of any Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units to any Eligible Employee who is a Covered Executive, the Performance Goal or Goals established in connection with such Award shall be based on one or more of the following business criteria, as determined by the Committee in its discretion: (i) the attainment of specified levels of, or increases in, the Corporation's after-tax or pretax return on stockholder's equity, (ii) the attainment of specified levels in the fair market value of the Corporation's Shares; (iii) the attainment of specified levels of growth in the value of an investment in the Corporation's Shares, assuming that all dividends paid on the Corporation's Common Stock are reinvested in additional Shares; (iv) the attainment of specified levels of, or increases in, the Corporation's pre-tax or after-tax earnings, profits, net income, or earnings per share; (v) the attainment of specified levels of, or increases in, the Corporation's earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA); (vi) attainment of specified levels of, or increases in, the Corporation's net sales, gross revenues or cash flow from operations; (vii) the attainment of specified levels of, or increases in, the Corporation's working capital, or in its return on capital employed or invested; (viii) the attainment of specified levels of, or decreases in, the Corporation's operating costs or any one or more components thereof, or in the amount of all or any specified portion of the Corporation's debt or other outstanding financial obligations. 13
Any of the business criteria described in the preceding sentence which the Committee establishes as a Performance Goal may be measured either by the performance of the Corporation and its Affiliated Companies on a consolidated basis, or by the performance of any one or more of the Corporation's subsidiaries, divisions, or other business units, as the Committee in its discretion may determine. In its discretion, the Committee may also establish Performance Goals, based on any of the business criteria described in this Section 7(d), that require the attainment of a specified level of performance of the Corporation, or any of its subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, relative to the performance of other specified corporations, in order for such Goals to be met. The Committee may also, in its discretion, include in any Performance Goal the attainment of which depends on a determination of the net earnings or income of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, provisions which require such determination to be made by eliminating the effects of any decreases in or charges to earnings for (A) the effect of foreign currency exchange rates, (B) any acquisitions, divestitures, discontinuances of business operations, restructurings or other special charges, (C) the cumulative effect of any accounting changes, and (D) any "extraordinary items" as determined under generally accepted accounting principles, to the extent that such decreases or charges referred to in clauses (A) through (D) are separately disclosed in the Corporation's Annual Report for each fiscal year within the applicable Performance Period. (e) Performance Goals for Non-Covered Executives. In the case of Awards of Performance Shares or Performance Units made hereunder to Eligible Employees who are not Covered Executives, the Performance Goal or Goals applicable to such Awards shall be such corporate or individual goals as the Committee in its discretion may determine. (f) Measurement of Performance. At the end of the Performance Period established in connection with any Award, the Committee shall determine the extent to which the Performance Goal or Goals established for such Award have been attained, and shall determine, on that basis, the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units included in such Award that have been earned and as to which payment will be made pursuant to section 7(h) below, subject to the adjustments provide for in Section (7)(g) and the forfeiture provisions of Section 7(i). In the case of any Award granted to a Covered Executive, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which it has determined that the Performance Goal or Goals established by it for such Award have been attained. (g) Adjustment of Award Amounts. The Number of Shares or the amount of cash otherwise payable with respect to an Award on the basis of the level of attainment of the applicable Performance Goals as determined by the Committee under Section 7(f) shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with the following provisions. 14
(i) To the extent not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan and if the instrument evidencing the Award so provides, the number of Shares or the amount of cash otherwise so payable with respect to an Award to an Eligible Employee who is not a Covered Executive may be increased or decreased to the extent determined by the Committee in its discretion, based on the Committee's evaluation of the Eligible Employee's individual performance or to reflect such other events, circumstances or factors as the Committee in its discretion deems appropriate in determining the extent to which payment should be made with respect to the Eligible Employee's Award. (ii) The Committee shall not have any authority to increase the number of Shares or the amount of cash otherwise so payable with respect to any Award to a Covered Executive. However, if the instrument evidencing such Award so provides, the Committee may in its discretion reduce the number of Shares or the amount of cash otherwise so payable with respect to such Award (A) to reflect any decreases in or charges to earnings that were not taken into account pursuant to clause (A), (B), (C), or (D) of Section 7(e) in determining net earnings or income for purposes of any Performance Goal established in connection with such Award; (B) to reflect any credits to earnings for extraordinary items of income or gain that were taken into account in determining net earnings or income for such purposes; (C) to reflect the Committee's evaluation of the Covered Executive's individual performance; or (D) to reflect any other events, circumstances or factors which the Committee believes to be appropriate in determining the extent to which payment should be made with respect to the Covered Executive's Award. (h) Payment of Awards. Payment with respect to that number of Performance Shares or Performance Units subject to any Award which the Committee has determined under Section 7(f) above to have been earned, as adjusted to the extent determined by the Committee under Section 7(g), shall be made in accordance with the following provisions: (i) In the case of any such Performance Shares, payment shall be made by the issuance and delivery to the Participant of a stock certificate for the requisite number of such Shares. If the instrument evidencing the Award of such Shares so provides, a cash payment shall also be made to the Participant, in an amount equal to all of the dividends that would have been paid to the Participant upon such earned and adjusted number of Shares if such Shares had been issued to the Participant as of the Date of Grant of the Award in question. Such Shares shall be issued and delivered, and, if applicable, such cash payment shall be made, to the Participant as soon as practicable after the end of the Performance Period applicable to the Award in question. (ii) In the case of any such Performance Units, (including related Dividend Equivalent Units), payment shall be made (A) by the issuance and delivery to the Participant of a stock certificate for a number of Shares equal to the total number of such whole Performance Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units, and (B) by payment in cash for any fractional Unit in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional Unit determined as of the Trading Day immediately preceding the date as of which payment is to be made. Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment for such Performance Units (including related Dividend Equivalent Units) shall be made solely in cash, in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of all of such Units and any fractional Unit, determined as of the Trading Day immediately preceding the date as of which payment is to be made, if the instrument evidencing the grant of such Performance Units so provides. Payment shall be made in such manner and at such time or times as provided in such instrument. If such instrument so permits, payment with respect to any part or all of an Eligible Employee's Performance Units (including any related Dividend Equivalent Units) may be deferred, at the Eligible Employee's election, upon such terms and conditions as are specified in such instrument. 15
(i) Termination of Employment. Upon an Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment for any reason prior to the end of the Performance Period established for any Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units made to the Eligible Employee hereunder, such Award shall be cancelled as of the date of such Termination of Employment, the Eligible Employee's right to receive payment with respect to any Performance Shares or Performance Units included in such Award and any Dividend Equivalent Units that were credited with respect to such Performance Units, shall be forfeited as of such date, and no payment of any kind shall be made with respect to such Award, except as otherwise provided in the instrument evidencing the grant of such Award. If the Committee so determines in its discretion, the instrument evidencing any Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units may provide that if the Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment prior to the end of the Performance Period established for such Award occurs as a result of the Eligible Employee's death, Disability, Retirement, or for any other reason other than discharge by the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies for "cause" as defined in such instrument, payment shall be made at the end of the Performance Period, in accordance with the provisions of Section 7(h), with respect to all or a Pro Rata Portion of the number of Shares and/or the amount of cash that otherwise would have been payable to the Eligible Employee, as determined in accordance with the provisions of Sections 7(f) and (g), if the Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment had not occurred prior to the end of such Performance Period. In such case, only the Eligible Employee's right to receive payment with respect to any remaining portion of the Performance Shares or Performance Units (and related Dividend Equivalent Units) included in such Award shall be cancelled and forfeited. 8. AWARDS TO ELIGIBLE DIRECTORS Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 4 and to the other terms and conditions of the Plan, Annual Award Units shall be granted to Eligible Directors in accordance with the provisions set forth below: (a) Annual Grants. On each Annual Award Grant Date, each member of the Board of Directors who is an Eligible Director on such date shall automatically be granted 1,000 Annual Award Units. Each person who is elected a director of the Corporation by shareholders at an annual meeting of shareholders for the first time (i.e., disregarding any previous election of such person by the Board of Directors) and thereby becomes an Eligible Director shall automatically be granted 1,000Annual Award Units on the date of such annual meeting of shareholders. 16
(b) Accounts and Dividend Equivalent Units. No Shares shall be issued at the time any Annual Award Units are granted hereunder. Annual Award Units granted to an Eligible Director hereunder shall be credited to a bookkeeping account maintained by the Corporation for the Eligible Director. As of each Dividend Payment Date occurring prior to the date on which payment with respect to an Eligible Director's Annual Award Units is made pursuant to (c) below, Dividend Equivalent Units shall be credited to the Eligible Director's account with respect to all Annual Award Units (and all Dividend Equivalent Units credited to such account on all previous Dividend Payment Dates) standing to the Eligible Director's credit in such account immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date. The number of Dividend Equivalent Units to be so credited shall be determined in the same manner as Dividend Equivalent Units are credited with respect to Restricted Units during the applicable Restricted Period, as set forth in Section 6(c) above. (c) Payment with respect to Annual Award Units. Upon an Eligible Director's Termination of Board Membership for any reason other than removal for cause in accordance with law, the Eligible Director (or if such Termination has occurred by reason of death, his or her Beneficiary) shall be entitled to receive payment with respect to all Annual Award Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units then standing to his or her credit in the account maintained for the Eligible Director pursuant to (b) above. Payment shall be made (i) by the issuance and delivery to the Eligible Director, or to his or her Beneficiary, of a stock certificate for a number of Shares equal to the number of whole Annual Award Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units standing to the Eligible Director's credit immediately prior to such Termination of Board Membership, and (ii) by payment in cash for any fractional Annual Award Unit standing to the Eligible Director's credit at such time. Payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the date on which the Eligible Director's Termination of Board Membership occurs. (d) Forfeiture of Annual Award Units. Upon an Eligible Director's Termination of Board Membership as a result of removal for cause in accordance with law, all Annual Award Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units standing to his or her credit immediately prior to such Termination of Board Membership shall be cancelled as of the date of such Termination of Board Membership, the Eligible Director's right to receive payment with respect to such Annual Award Units and Dividend Equivalent Units shall be forfeited as of such date, and no payment of any kind shall be made with respect to such Annual Award Units and Dividend Equivalent Units. 9. TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS Any Option granted to an Eligible Employee under the Plan shall be nontransferable and may be exercised during the Eligible Employee's lifetime only by the Eligible Employee. A Participant's right to receive payment of Shares or cash with respect to any other Award granted to the Participant under the Plan shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the instrument evidencing the grant of any Award other than an Incentive Stock Option so provides, the recipient of such Award may transfer his or her rights with respect to such Award, or any portion thereof, to any "family member" of the recipient, as that term is defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, subject to such limitations, terms and conditions as may be specified in such instrument. 17
10. LISTING AND QUALIFICATION OF SHARES The Corporation, in its discretion, may postpone the issuance, delivery, or distribution of Shares with respect to any Award until completion of such stock exchange listing or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law, rule or regulation as the Corporation may consider appropriate, and may require any Participant to make such representations and furnish such information as it may consider appropriate in connection with the issuance or delivery of the Shares in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. 11. TAXES Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies may make such provisions and take such steps as it may deem necessary or appropriate for the withholding of all federal, state and local taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to the exercise of any Option or with respect any payments to be made in respect of any other form of Award granted to a Participant under the Plan, including but not limited to (i) deducting the amount of taxes so required to be withheld from any other compensation or other amounts then or thereafter payable to the Participant, and/or (ii) withholding delivery of any Shares or payment of any cash amount otherwise required to be delivered or paid to the Participant with respect to the exercise of such Option, or with respect to such other form of Award, until the amount of taxes so required to be withheld has been paid in full to the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies. With the approval of the Compensation Committee and subject to such terms and conditions as it may require, such amount may be paid in Shares previously owned by the Participant, or by the surrender of a portion of the Shares that otherwise would be delivered or paid to such Participant with respect to his or her Award, or by a combination of payments in cash and Shares. 12. CHANGE IN CONTROL Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan to the contrary (but subject to the "provided, however" clause contained in the definition of "Change in Control" in Section 2), upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the following provisions shall apply. (a) Each Option outstanding under the Plan on the day preceding the date on which the Change in Control occurs shall become immediately and fully exercisable on the date of the Change in Control, and shall remain fully exercisable, irrespective of the Participant's subsequent Termination of Employment for any reason, until the date on which the Option otherwise would expire by the passage of time in accordance with its terms. (b) If a Change in Control would be treated as having occurred but for the adoption by the Board of Directors of a resolution described in the "provided, however" clause in the definition of "Change in Control" in Section 2, and if such resolution so provides and has not been rescinded prior to the Change in Control, the Board of Directors shall have the right in its discretion (i) to direct that all Options then outstanding and held by Participants shall be cancelled as of a date to be fixed by the Board, provided, however, that not 18
less than 30 days written notice of the date so fixed shall be given to each such Participant, and each such Participant shall have the right during such period (irrespective of the Participant's Termination of Employment during such period) to exercise his or her Option as to all or any part of the Shares covered thereby, including any Shares as to which the Option has not yet become exercisable, or (ii) to authorize the substitution for each outstanding Option of a new Option, provided that (A) each such new Option has a value at the time it is granted that is at least equal to the value of the outstanding Option in substitution for which it is granted, and contains terms and conditions no less favorable to the Participant than those contained in his or her outstanding Option, and (B) in the case of any new Incentive Stock Option that is granted in substitution of an outstanding Incentive Stock Option, the requirements of section 424(a) of the Code are met with regard to such substitution. (c) The Restricted Periods applicable to all Restricted Shares and Restricted Units (including any related Dividend Equivalent Units) granted to a Participant hereunder that are still outstanding on the day immediately preceding the date on which such Change in Control occurs shall expire on such date; all Restrictions applicable to such outstanding Restricted Shares, Restricted Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units shall lapse on such date; and the Participant's rights to receive payment with respect to all such outstanding Shares, Restricted Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units shall become nonforfeitable as of such date. Payment with respect to such outstanding Restricted Shares, Restricted Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units shall be made at the time or times, and in the manner, specified in the instrument or instruments evidencing the grant thereof, except as the Committee may otherwise determine in its discretion at any time prior to the Change in Control. (d) The Performance Periods applicable to all Performance Shares and Performance Units (including any related Dividend Equivalent Units) granted to a Participant hereunder that are still outstanding on the day immediately preceding the date on which such Change in Control occurs shall end on such date; all Performance Goals that were established in connection with the Award of such Performance Shares or Performance Units shall be deemed to have been attained as of such date to the fullest extent necessary in order for the Participant to be entitled to receive payment with respect to the maximum number of such Performance Shares, or with respect to the maximum percentage of such Performance Units (and any related Dividend Equivalent Units), as to which payment could be made under the terms of the applicable Awards, as specified in the instrument or instruments evidencing the grant thereof; and the Participant shall acquire on such date a nonforfeitable right to receive payment with respect to such maximum number of Performance Shares (including any cash payment with respect to dividends that would have been paid thereon, if the instrument evidencing the grant of such shares provides for such cash payment), or with respect to such maximum percentage of Performance Units (and any related Dividend Equivalent Units), determined without any adjustment under Section 7(g)(i) or (ii); provided, however, that any Participant who, pursuant to Section 7(i), would have been entitled to receive payment with respect to only a Pro Rata Portion of the number of Shares or the amount of cash otherwise payable with respect to such Performance Shares or Performance Units if no Change in Control had occurred, shall be entitled to receive only a Pro Rata Portion of the payment that otherwise would be made with respect to such Performance Shares or Performance Units under the provisions of this Section 7(d). Payment with respect to such Performance Shares, Performance Units and related Dividend Equivalent Units shall be made at the time or times, and in the manner, specified in the instrument or instruments evidencing the grant thereof, except as the Committee may otherwise determine in its discretion at any time prior to the Change in Control. 19
(e) If any payment that is required to be made hereunder with respect to any outstanding Award as a result of the occurrence of a Change in Control is to be made by the issuance and delivery of Shares to the Participant, the Corporation shall take whatever steps are necessary to cause such Shares to be issued to the Participant, and to be treated as outstanding, at the effective time of the transaction constituting the Change in Control. 13. CERTAIN ADJUSTMENTS TO SHARES In the event of any change in the shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination or exchange of shares, or any rights offering to purchase shares of Common Stock at a price substantially below fair market value, or any similar change affecting the shares of Common Stock, (i) the maximum aggregate number and kind of shares specified herein as available for the grant of Awards, or for the grant of any particular form of Award, under the Plan, (ii) the number and kind of shares that may be issued and delivered to Participants upon the exercise of any Option, or in payment with respect to any Award of Restricted Shares or Performance Shares, that is outstanding at the time of such change, (iii) the number and kind of shares represented by any Restricted Units, Performance Units, Annual Award Units or Dividend Equivalent Units that are outstanding at the time of such change, and (iv) the exercise price per share of any Options granted hereunder that are outstanding at the time of such change, shall be appropriately adjusted consistent with such change in such manner as the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, may deem equitable to prevent substantial dilution or enlargement of the rights granted to, or available for, the Participants hereunder. In the case of any outstanding Incentive Stock Option, any such change shall be made in the manner that satisfies the requirements that must be met under section 424 of the Code in order for such change not to be treated as a "modification" of such Option as defined under section 424 of the Code. The Committee shall give notice to each Participant of any adjustment made pursuant to this Section and, upon such notice, such adjustment shall be effective and binding for all purposes. 14. ADMINISTRATION The Plan shall be administered in accordance with the provisions set forth below. (a) In General. Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Plan, the Plan shall be administered by (i) the Board of Directors, with respect to all matters pertaining to Awards that may be granted or that have been granted hereunder to Eligible Directors; (ii) by the Compensation Committee, with respect to all matters pertaining to Awards that may be made or that have been made to Eligible Employees, except as otherwise provided in (iii); and (iii) by the CEO, with respect to those specific matters pertaining to Awards to Eligible Employees who are not Elected Officers that are within the scope of the authority granted to the CEO under (d) below or delegated by the Compensation Committee to the CEO pursuant to (e) below. 20
(b) The Committee's Authority and Powers. In addition to the responsibilities and powers assigned to the Committee elsewhere in the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority, in its discretion, to establish from time to time guidelines or regulations for the administration of the Plan, to interpret the Plan, and to make all determinations it considers necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. All decisions, actions or interpretations of the Committee under the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any determination made by the Committee after the occurrence of a Change in Control that denies in whole or in part any claim made by any individual for benefits under the Plan shall be subject to judicial review under a "de novo," rather than a deferential, standard. (c) Modification of Awards. To the extent not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan or any provision of applicable law, the Committee in its discretion may waive or modify any of the terms and conditions set forth in the instrument evidencing the grant of any Award made to a Participant hereunder, including without limitation, (i) in the case of any Option, to permit such Option to become exercisable as to any portion of the Shares subject to the Option at any time earlier than the time specified in such instrument, to extend the term of such Option beyond the date specified in such instrument as the expiration date for the term of the Option (but not beyond the day immediately preceding the tenth anniversary of the Date of Grant of the Option), or to permit such Option, to the extent it has become or becomes exercisable, to remain exercisable for any period of time (including any period after the Eligible Employee's Termination of Employment) beyond the period of time specified in such instrument but not beyond the date of expiration of the Option, including any extension thereof permitted under this clause (i); and (ii) in the case of any Award of Restricted Shares or Restricted Units, to cause the Restricted Period applicable to such Restricted Shares or restricted Units to expire, and the Restrictions applicable to such Restricted Shares or Restricted Units to lapse, as of any date earlier than the date provided for in such instrument; Notwithstanding the foregoing, no waiver or amendment may be authorized or directed by the Committee pursuant to this Section 14 (c) without the consent of the Participant if (A) it would adversely affect, to any material extent, any of the rights or obligations of the Participant with respect to such Award, or (B) in the case of any Option granted hereunder that was intended to constitute an Incentive Stock Option, if such waiver or amendment would cause such Option to fail to be treated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of section 422 of the Code. In addition, no such waiver or amendment may be authorized or directed by the Committee pursuant to this Section 14(c) with respect to any Option, Performance Shares or Performance Units awarded to any Covered Executive, if such waiver or amendment would cause the delivery of Shares or the payment of any cash amounts that are made with respect to such Award to fail to be deductible for federal income tax purposes pursuant to the applicable provisions of section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder. (d) The CEO's Authority and Powers. With respect to such number of Shares as the Compensation Committee may in its discretion determine to be available from time to time for the grant of Awards in any form to Eligible Employees who are not Elected Officers, the CEO shall have the authority (i) to determine which of such Eligible Employees shall receive Awards in each form specified by the Compensation Committee; (ii) to determine the time or times when Awards in such form shall be made to such Eligible Employees; (iii) to determine the number of Shares that will be subject to any Option, or the number 21
of Restricted Shares, Restricted Units, Performance Shares or Performance Units, to be included in any Award to any such Eligible Employee; (iv) with respect to any Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units made to any such Eligible Employees, to make all determinations which the Committee is authorized to make with respect to such Award under the provisions of Section 7(a)(i),(ii) and (iii), Section 7(e) and Section 7(g)(i); and (v) with respect to any Awards made to any such Eligible Employees pursuant to the CEO's exercise of the authority granted to him under this Section 14(d), to exercise all of the authority and powers granted to the Committee under (b) above and under the second paragraph of (e) below, but only to the extent that any such exercise by the CEO is not inconsistent with any action taken by the Compensation Committee, or with any determination, decision or interpretation of the Plan made by the Compensation Committee, under (b) above or any delegation made by the Compensation Committee under the second paragraph of (e) below. Except for the matters specified in the foregoing paragraph and any additional matters pertaining to Awards to Eligible Employees who are not Elected Officers with respect to which authority has been granted to the CEO pursuant to (e) below, the CEO shall not have any of the authority or powers otherwise granted to the Committee under any other provisions of the Plan. The Compensation Committee in its discretion may at any time, by resolution duly adopted by it and without any amendment of the Plan, revoke or modify in any manner or respect the authority and powers granted to the CEO under this Section 14(d). (e) Delegation. In addition to the authority and powers granted to the CEO under (d) above, the Compensation Committee in its discretion may, by resolution duly adopted by it, delegate to the CEO authority with respect to such other matters pertaining to Awards to Eligible Employees who are not Elected Officers as the Compensation Committee may specify in such resolution. Any authority so delegated to the CEO may be revoked or modified by the Compensation Committee, in whole or in part, at any time. The Committee may delegate any ministerial or nondiscretionary function pertaining to the administration of the Plan to any one or more officers or other employees of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies. (f) Non-U.S. Participants. In order to comply with any applicable provisions of local law and regulations in any foreign country in which the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies operates, the Committee may in its sole discretion (i) modify the terms and conditions of Awards granted under the Plan to Eligible Employees located in such foreign country, (ii) establish subplans with such modifications to the terms of the Plan as it determines to be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances applicable in such foreign country, or (iii) take any other action that it deems necessary or appropriate in order to comply with, or obtain any exemptions from the applicability of, the local laws and regulations in such foreign country. 22
15. DESIGNATION AND CHANGE OF BENEFICIARY Each Participant shall file with the Committee, or with such employee of the Corporation who has been designated by the Committee to receive same, a written designation of one or more persons as the Beneficiary who shall be entitled to receive any Shares or cash amount payable under the Plan upon or after the Participant's death. A Participant may, from time to time, revoke or change his or her Beneficiary designation without the consent of any previously designated Beneficiary by filing a new designation with the Committee or its designee. The last such designation received by the Committee or its designee shall be controlling; provided, however, that no designation, or change or revocation thereof, shall be effective unless received by the Committee prior to the Participant's death, and in no event shall it be effective as of a date prior to such receipt. If at the date of a Participant's death, there is no designation of a Beneficiary in effect for the Participant pursuant to the provisions of this Section 15, or if no Beneficiary designated by the Participant in accordance with the provisions hereof survives to receive any Shares or cash amount payable under the Plan with respect to the Participant after his or death, the Participant's estate shall be treated as the Participant's Beneficiary for purposes of the Plan. 16. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION The Board of Directors may, with prospective or retroactive effect, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time; provided, however, that (a) no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall adversely affect the rights of any Participant with respect to any Awards previously granted to the Participant without his or her written consent, and (b) no amendment which constitutes a "material revision" of the Plan, as the term material revision is defined in the applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange, shall be effective unless approved by the shareholders of the Corporation in the manner required by such rules and by applicable law. 17. GENERAL PROVISIONS (a) Rights of Participants. A Participant's rights and interests under the Plan shall be subject to the following provisions: (i) A Participant shall have the status of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation with respect to his or her right to receive any payment under the Plan. The Plan shall constitute a mere promise by the Corporation or the applicable Affiliated Company to make payments in the future of the benefits provided for herein. It is intended that the arrangements reflected in the Plan be treated as unfunded for tax purposes, as well as for purposes of any applicable provisions of Title I of ERISA. (ii) Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any Participant any right to be retained in the employment of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies, or shall interfere with the right of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies with whom the Participant is employed to terminate the Participant's employment at any time subject, however, to the Participant's rights under any employment contract in effect between the Participant and the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies. (iii) No Award made to a Participant under the Plan, and no payment made with respect to such Award, shall be considered as compensation under any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies, except as specifically provided in such plan or as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. 23
(b) Successors. The obligations of the Corporation under the Plan shall be binding upon any successor corporation or organization resulting from the merger, consolidation or other reorganization of the Corporation, or upon any successor corporation or organization succeeding to substantially all of the assets and business of the Corporation. The Corporation agrees that it will make appropriate provision for the preservation of Participants' rights under the Plan in any agreement or plan which it may enter into or adopt to effect any such merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets. The provisions of the Plan and the terms and conditions contained in the instrument evidencing any Award made to a Participant hereunder shall be binding upon the Participant, his or her successors and permitted transferees. (c) Governing Law. The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 16. EFFECTIVE DATE The Plan was adopted on September 17, 2004 by the Board of Directors, subject, however, to approval by the shareholders of the Corporation, in accordance with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and applicable law, at the 2004 annual meeting of the Corporation's shareholders including any adjournment thereof. The effective date of the Plan shall be the date of such approval by the Corporation's shareholders, and no Awards may be granted hereunder prior to such date. 24

EXHIBIT 10.2 PALL CORPORATION 2004 EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN _____ 1. PURPOSE This document sets forth the Pall Corporation 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan as adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on October 16, 2003 effective for the fiscal year beginning August 3, 2003 and subsequent fiscal years, approved by shareholders at the Annual Meeting on November 19, 2003 and amended by the Board of Directors, acting by its Compensation Committee, on July 19, 2005. The purpose of the Plan is to encourage greater focus on performance among the key executives of the Corporation by relating a significant portion of their total compensation to the achievement of annual financial objectives. 2. CERTAIN DEFINITIONS As used herein with initial capital letters, the following terms shall have the following meanings: "AVERAGE EQUITY" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the average of stockholders' equity as shown on the fiscal year-end consolidated balance sheet of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as of the end of such Fiscal Year and as of the end of the immediately preceding Fiscal Year except that the amounts shown on said balance sheets as "Accumulated other comprehensive" income or loss, as the case may be, shall be disregarded. "BASE SALARY" shall mean, with respect to any Executive and for any Fiscal Year, the annual rate of base salary in effect for the Executive as of the first day of such year or, if later, as of the first day of the Executive's Term of Employment, as determined under the Executive's Employment Agreement. "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation. "BONUS" shall mean the bonus payable to an Executive under this Plan for any Fiscal Year. "CEO" shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
"CHANGE IN CONTROL" means the occurrence of any of the following: (a) the "Distribution Date" as defined in Section 3 of the Rights Agreement dated as of November 17, 1989 between the Corporation and United States Trust Company of New York as Rights Agent, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated April 20, 1999, and as the same may have been further amended or extended to the time in question or in any successor agreement (the "Rights Agreement"); or (b) any event described in Section 11(a)(ii)(B) of the Rights Agreement; or (c) any event described in Section 13 of the Rights Agreement; or (d) the date on which the number of duly elected and qualified directors of the Corporation who were not either elected by the Board of Directors or nominated by the Board of Directors or its Nominating Committee for election by the shareholders shall equal or exceed one-third of the total number of directors of the Corporation as fixed by its by-laws; provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred, and no rights arising upon a Change in Control as provided in Section 6 shall exist, to the extent that the Board of Directors so determines by resolution adopted prior to the Change in Control. "CODE" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "COMMITTEE" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. "CORPORATION" shall mean Pall Corporation. "COVERED EXECUTIVE" shall mean, with respect to any Fiscal Year, each individual who is a "Covered Employee" of the Corporation for such year for the purpose of section 162(m) of the Code. "EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT" shall mean, with respect to any executive employee of the Corporation, an employment agreement between the Corporation and such employee which provides that the employee shall be eligible to receive annual bonuses under this Plan. "EXECUTIVE" shall mean an executive employee of the Corporation with whom the Corporation has entered into an Employment Agreement. "FISCAL YEAR" shall mean the fiscal year of the Corporation ending on July 31, 2004, and each subsequent fiscal year of the Corporation. "MAXIMUM R.O.E. TARGET" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the Return on Equity that must be achieved or exceeded in order for the Performance Percentage for the year to equal 100%, as determined by the Committee prior to the first day of such year or within such period of time thereafter as may be permitted under the regulations issued under ss.162(m) of the Code. 2
"MINIMUM R.O.E. TARGET" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the Return on Equity that must be exceeded in order for any Bonus to be paid to any Executive for the year, as determined by the Committee prior to the first day of such year or within such period of time thereafter as may be permitted under the regulations issued under ss.162(m) of the Code. "NET EARNINGS" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the after-tax consolidated net earnings of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as certified by the Corporation's independent accountants for inclusion in the annual report to shareholders ("Annual Report"), adjusted so as to eliminate the effects of any decreases in or charges to earnings for (a) the effect of foreign currency exchange rates, (b) any acquisitions, divestitures, discontinuance of business operations, restructuring or any other special charges, (c) the cumulative effect of any accounting changes, and (d) any "extraordinary items" as determined under generally accepted accounting principles, to the extent such decreases or charges referred to in clauses (a) through (d) are separately disclosed in the Corporation's Annual Report for the year. "PLAN" shall mean the Pall Corporation Executive Incentive Bonus Plan, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time. "RETURN ON EQUITY" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the percentage determined by dividing the Net Earnings for the year by the Average Equity for the year. "TARGET BONUS PERCENTAGE" shall mean, with respect to any Executive, the target bonus percentage specified for such Executive in his or her Employment Agreement. 3. DETERMINATION OF BONUS AMOUNTS For each Fiscal Year falling in whole or in part within an Executive's Term of Employment, as defined in his or her Employment Agreement, the Executive shall be entitled to receive a Bonus in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3, subject, however, to the provisions of Section 4. (a) The amount of the Bonus payable to an Executive for each such Fiscal Year shall be equal to (i) the Target Bonus Percentage of the Executive's Base Salary for such year, multiplied by (ii) the Performance Percentage for such year, as determined under (b) below. (b) The Performance Percentage for any Fiscal Year shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions: (i) If the Return on Equity equals or exceeds the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be 100%. (ii) If the Return on Equity equals or is less than the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be zero, and no Bonus shall be payable under the Plan for such year to any Executive. (iii) Except as other provided in (iv) below, if the Return on Equity is less than the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year but exceeds the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be equal to the quotient resulting from dividing (A) the excess of the Return on Equity for the year over the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year, by (B) the excess of the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year over the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year. 3
(iv) At the time it establishes the Minimum and Maximum R.O.E. Targets for any Fiscal Year beginning on or after August 3, 2003, the Committee may also (A) establish one or more R.O.E. targets (each, an "Intermediate R.O.E. Target") for such year that are greater than the Minimum R.O.E. Target but less than the Maximum R.O.E. Target for such year, and (B) determine the Performance Percentage that will apply if the Return on Equity exceeds the Minimum R.O.E. Target, or equals any of the Intermediate R.O.E. Targets established for such year. If one or more Intermediate R.O.E. Targets are established for any such Fiscal Year and the Return on Equity for such year exceeds the Minimum R.O.E Target or any Intermediate R.O.E Target established for the year (the "Achieved Target") but is less than the next highest Intermediate R.O.E Target established for the year (the "Next Highest Target"), the Performance Percentage for such year shall be equal to the Performance Percentage that would apply if the Return on Equity were equal to the Achieved Target, plus the percentage resulting from multiplying (1) the excess of the Performance Percentage that would apply if the Return on Equity were equal to the Next Highest Target, over the Performance Percentage that would apply if the Return on Equity were equal to the Achieved Target, by (2) the percentage resulting from dividing (x) the excess of the Return on Equity over the Achieved Target, by (y) the excess of the Next Highest Target over the Achieved Target. If the Return on Equity for the year exceeds the highest Intermediate R.O.E. Target for the year but is less than the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be determined in the manner described in the preceding sentence but for this purpose, the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year shall be treated as the Next Highest Target for the year. (c) If an Executive's Term of Employment commences after the start of a Fiscal Year, or ends prior to the close of a Fiscal Year, the amount of the Bonus payable to the Executive for the Fiscal Year in which the Executive's Term of Employment commences, or for the Fiscal Year in which the Executive's Term of Employment ends, as determined in accordance with the other applicable provisions of the Plan, shall be prorated on the basis of the number of days of such Fiscal Year that fall within the Executive's Term of Employment; provided, however, that (i) if an Executive's Term of Employment ends within 5 days prior to the close of a Fiscal Year, there shall be no proration and the Executive shall be entitled to receive the entire amount of the Bonus payable to the Executive for such year, as determined in accordance with such other provisions, and (ii) if the Executive's Term of Employment ends within 5 days following the start of a Fiscal Year, the Executive shall not be entitled to receive any Bonus with respect to such Fiscal Year. 4. ADJUSTMENT OF AND LIMITATION ON BONUS AMOUNTS The amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to an Executive for any Fiscal Year in accordance with Section 3 shall be subject to the following adjustments and limitation: 4
(a) The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to any Executive in accordance with Section 3, (i) to reflect any decreases in or charges to earnings that were not taken into account in determining Net Earnings for the year pursuant to clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) contained in the definition of such term in Section 2, (ii) to reflect any credits to earnings for extraordinary items of income or gain that were taken into account in determining Net Earnings for the year, (iii) to reflect the Committee's evaluation of the Executive's individual performance, or (iv) to reflect any other events, circumstances or factors which the Committee believes to be appropriate in determining the amount of the Bonus to be paid to the Executive for the year. (b) The Committee may, in its discretion, increase the amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to any Executive who is not a Covered Executive, as determined under Section 3, to reflect the Committee's evaluation of the Executive's individual performance, or to reflect such other circumstances or factors as the Committee believes to be appropriate in determining the amount of the Bonus to be paid to the Executive for the year. The Committee shall not have any discretion to increase the amount of the Bonus payable to any Covered Executive for the year, as determined under Section 3. (c) Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, the amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to any Executive for any Fiscal Year beginning on or after August 3, 2003, shall not exceed the lesser of (i) $2.0 million and (ii) 150% of the Executive's Base Salary for such Fiscal Year. 5. PAYMENT OF BONUSES The Bonus payable to an Executive for any Fiscal Year shall be paid in accordance with the following provisions: (a) Except as otherwise provided in (b) or (c) below, (i) if the Executive is not a Covered Executive for such year, not less than 50% of the estimated amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the Executive on such date in September next following the close of such year as the Committee in its discretion shall determine (the first "Bonus Payment Date"), and any remaining amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the Executive by no later than January 15 next following the close of such year; (ii) if the Executive is a Covered Executive for such year, not less than 50% of the amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the Executive as soon as practicable after the Committee has certified in writing that all conditions for the payment of such Bonus to the Executive for such year have been satisfied, and any remaining amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the Executive by no later than January 15 next following the close of such year; (iii) each amount payable to an Executive under (i) and (ii) above, reduced by the amount of all federal, state and local taxes required by law to be withheld therefrom, shall be paid to the Executive in the form of a single lump sum cash payment. 5
(b) To the extent that an Executive has elected under the applicable provisions of the Pall Corporation Management Stock Purchase Plan (the "MSPP") to have any part of the Bonus payable to the Executive for any Fiscal Year paid in the form of Restricted Units to be credited to the Executive's account under the MSPP, no cash payments shall be made to the Executive pursuant to (a) above with respect to the part of the Executive Bonus that is subject to such election, and the obligation of the Corporation under this Plan with respect to payment of such part of the Executive's Bonus shall be fully discharged upon the crediting of Restricted Units to the Executive's account under the MSPP in accordance with the applicable provisions of such Plan. (c) To the extent that an Executive has elected under the applicable provisions of the Pall Corporation Profit-Sharing Plan (the "Profit-Sharing Plan") to have any part of the Bonus payable to the Executive for any Fiscal Year reduced, and to have an amount equal to such part of the Executive's Bonus contributed to the Profit-Sharing Plan as a 401(k) Contribution on the Executive's behalf, an amount equal to such part of the Executive's Bonus shall be contributed to the Profit-Sharing Plan on behalf of the Executive, and thereupon, the obligation of the Corporation under this Plan with respect to payment of such part of the Executive's Bonus shall be fully discharged. However, no such contribution shall be made to the extent it would cause any limitation applicable under the 401(k) Plan to be exceeded. 6. CHANGE IN CONTROL Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan to the contrary (but subject to the "provided, however" clause contained in the definition of "Change in Control" in Section 2), upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the following provisions shall apply. (a) The amount of the Bonus payable to any Executive for the Fiscal Year in which a Change in Control occurs shall be at least equal to the Target Bonus Percentage of the Executive's Base Salary for such year or, in the case of any Executive whose Term of Employment commences after the start of such year or ends prior to the close of such year, a pro rata portion thereof determined on the basis of the number of days of such Fiscal Year that fall within the Executive's Term of Employment. (b) Each Executive whose Term of Employment has not ended prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be entitled to receive a Bonus for each Contract Year (as defined in the Executive's Employment Agreement) that falls in whole or in part within the Executive's Term of Employment and that ends after the Fiscal Year in which the Change in Control occurs. The amount of the Bonus payable to the Executive for each such Contract Year shall be at least equal to the Target Bonus Percentage of the Executive's Base Salary for such Contract Year or, in the case of any Executive whose Term of Employment ends after the start of such Contract Year but prior to the close of such year, a pro rata portion thereof determined on the basis of the number of days of such Contract Year that fall within the Executive's Term of Employment. (c) The entire amount of the Bonus payable to an Executive for any Fiscal Year or Contract Year pursuant to (a) or (b) above, reduced by the amount of all federal, state and local taxes required to be withheld therefrom, shall be paid to the Executive in a single cash lump sum as soon as practicable after the close of such Fiscal Year or Contract Year, but in no event later than 2 1/2 months after the close of such Fiscal Year or Contract Year. 6
7. RIGHTS OF EXECUTIVES An Executive's rights and interests under the Plan shall be subject to the following provisions: (a) An Executive's rights to payments under the Plan shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by creditors of the Executive. (b) Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any Executive any right to be retained in the employment of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. 8. ADMINISTRATION The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. The Committee may act at a meeting, including a telephone meeting, by action of a majority of the members present, or without a meeting by unanimous written consent. In addition to the responsibilities and powers assigned to the Committee elsewhere in the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority, in its discretion, to establish from time to time guidelines or regulations for the administration of the Plan, interpret the Plan, and make all determinations considered necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may delegate any ministerial or nondiscretionary function pertaining to the administration of the Plan to any one or more officers of the Corporation. All decisions, actions or interpretations of the Committee under the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any determination made by the Committee after the occurrence of a Change in Control that denies in whole or in part any claim made by any individual for benefits under the Plan shall be subject to judicial review, under a "de novo", rather than a deferential standard. 9. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION The Board of Directors may, (acting by the Committee if the by-laws of the Corporation so provide), with prospective or retroactive effect, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time; provided, however, that (a) no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall adversely affect the rights of any Executive with respect to any Bonus that has become payable to the Executive under the Plan, without his or her written consent, and (b) following a Change in Control, no amendment to Section 6, and no termination of the Plan, shall be effective if such amendment or termination adversely affects the rights of any Executive under the Plan. 7
10. SUCCESSOR CORPORATION The obligations of the Corporation under the Plan shall be binding upon any successor corporation or organization resulting from the merger, consolidation or other reorganization of the Corporation, or upon any successor corporation or organization succeeding to substantially all of the assets and business of the Corporation. The Corporation agrees that it will make appropriate provision for the preservation of Executives' rights under the Plan in any agreement or plan which it may enter into or adopt to effect any such merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets. 11. GOVERNING LAW The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 12. EFFECTIVE DATE The Plan was adopted by the Committee, on October 16, 2003 effective for the Fiscal Year beginning August 3, 2003, subject, however, to approval by the shareholders of the Corporation at the 2003 annual meeting of the shareholders, including any adjournment thereof. 8

EXHIBIT 10.3 PALL CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTARY PROFIT-SHARING PLAN (As amended and restated on July 19, 2005 effective as of January 1, 2005)
PALL CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTARY PROFIT-SHARING PLAN This document sets forth the Pall Corporation Supplementary Profit-Sharing Plan, as amended and restated by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on July 19, 2005 effective as of January 1, 2005. The rights and entitlement to a benefit under the Plan of any person who terminated employment with any Employer prior to the effective date of a particular amendment to the Plan shall be determined solely under the terms of the Plan as in effect on the date of such termination of employment, without regard to such amendment. SECTION 1 PURPOSE The purpose of this Plan is to provide participants in the Pall Corporation Profit-Sharing Plan (the "Profit-Sharing Plan") with an employer profit-sharing benefit that is the equivalent of the total Company contribution provided under the Profit-Sharing Plan, with respect to that portion of their annual compensation which may not be taken into account under the Profit-Sharing Plan because of the limitation on compensation contained in section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded plan of deferred compensation for "a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). SECTION 2 DEFINITIONS When used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings: Section 2.1 "Account" means the account established for a Participant hereunder. Section 2.2 "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company. Section 2.3 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. Section 2.4 "Committee" means the Administrative Committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan. Section 2.5 "Company" means Pall Corporation, a New York corporation.
Section 2.6 "Compensation" means "Compensation", as defined in the Profit-Sharing Plan for purposes of Section 3.4 of the Profit Sharing Plan. Section 2.7 "Corresponding PSP Plan Year" means, with respect to any Plan Year, the plan year of the Profit-Sharing Plan that corresponds to such Plan Year. Section 2.8 "Corresponding Valuation Period" means, with respect to any Valuation Date, the period of time which starts on the day after the immediately preceding Valuation Date and ends on such Valuation Date. Section 2.9 "Employer" means the Company or any subsidiary of the Company that has adopted the Profit-Sharing Plan. Section 2.10 "Employer Contribution" means "Employer Contribution", as defined in the Profit-Sharing Plan. Section 2.11 "Employer Contribution Account" means the "Employer Contribution Account", as defined in the Profit-Sharing Plan, maintained for a participant under the Profit-Sharing Plan. Section 2.12 "Excess Compensation" means, for any Plan Year, the amount of a Participant's Compensation for the taxable year of the Employer which ends in such Plan Year that is in excess of the limitation on Compensation in effect for such Plan Year under section 401(a)(17) of the Code. It is provided, however, that for the Short Plan Year, "Excess Compensation" shall be the amount of a Participant's Compensation paid to the Participant during such Plan Year in excess of the limitation on Compensation in effect for such Plan Year under section 401(a)(17) of the Code. Section 2.13 "Participant" means any person (i) who, on or after August 1, 1993, is employed by an Employer and is a participant in the Profit-Sharing Plan, and (ii) who has had Excess Compensation for any Plan Year beginning on or after August 1, 1993. Section 2.14 "Plan" means the Pall Corporation Supplementary Profit-Sharing Plan, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time. Section 2.15 "Plan Year" means, after July 31, 1993, the 5-consecutive month period beginning on August 1, 1993 and ending on December 31, 1993 (the "Short Plan Year"), and, thereafter, each calendar year. Section 2.16 "Profit-Sharing Plan" means the Pall Corporation Profit-Sharing Plan, as amended from time to time. 2
Section 2.17 "Termination of Service" means the termination of a Participant's employment with all Employers. Section 2.18 "Valuation Date" means (i) for the Short Plan Year, the last business day of October and December of such year and (ii) after December 31, 1993, the last business day of the third, sixth, ninth and twelfth months during a Plan Year. SECTION 3 SUPPLEMENTARY PROFIT-SHARING BENEFIT 3.1 The Benefit. As of the last day of each Plan Year beginning on or after August 1, 1993, each Participant's Account shall be credited with an amount equal to (a) the Participant's Excess Compensation for such year, multiplied by (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is the aggregate amount of Employer Contributions allocated to all Employer Contribution Accounts with respect to the Corresponding PSP Plan Year, and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of Compensation taken into account in making such allocation. For the purpose of the preceding sentence, the aggregate amount of Employer Contributions so allocated shall be determined without regard to any reduction made from the Employer Contributions for amounts described in clause (b)(3) and on or after January 1, 1999, clause (b)(4) of the second paragraph of Section 3.4 of the Profit-Sharing Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amount shall be allocated to the Account of a Participant for the Plan Year in which the Participant's Termination of Service occurs, unless the Participant is entitled to have a portion of the Employer Contributions made to the Profit-Sharing Plan for the Corresponding PSP Plan Year allocated to his or her Profit-Sharing Plan Account for such year. SECTION 4 ACCOUNTS, EARNINGS AND VESTING 4.1 Accounts. The Committee shall establish and maintain, or cause to be established and maintained, a separate memorandum Account for each Participant. A Participant's Account shall be adjusted from time to time to reflect the amounts to be credited to such Account under Section 3.1, the amounts to be credited or charged to such Account under Section 4.2, and amounts distributed to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary under Section 5.1. 4.2 Earnings. As of each Valuation Date occurring after August 1, 1993, each Participant's Account shall be credited, or charged, with an amount determined by multiplying (a) the balance of such Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date, by (b) the Earnings Adjustment Factor for such Valuation Date. The Earnings Adjustment Factor for any Valuation Date shall be a fraction. The numerator of such fraction shall be the amount of the earnings or losses that would have resulted during the Corresponding Valuation Period for such Valuation Date if, on the first day of such period, an amount equal to the balance of the Participant's Employer Contribution Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date had been invested in the Fidelity Asset Manager fund. The denominator of such fraction shall be the balance of the Participant's Employer Contribution Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date. If the numerator of the Earnings Adjustment Factor for any Valuation Date is a negative amount, the adjustment to be made to the Participant's Account pursuant to this Section 4.2 as of such Valuation Date shall be a charge to such Account. 3
In the case of any Participant who had a balance to his credit in his Account as of July 31, 1993, such date shall be treated as the Valuation Date immediately preceding the Valuation Date occurring in October of 1993, for purposes of determining the amount to be credited or charged to such Participant's Account under this Section 4.2 as of the October, 1993 Valuation Date. 4.3 Vesting. As of any date of reference or upon the occurrence of any event, a Participant shall have a vested interest in the same percentage of his or her Account as the vested percentage the Participant has in his or her Employer Contribution Account on such date or by reason of the occurrence of such event. Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, if a Participant does not have a 100% vested interest in his or her Account at the time of the Participant's Termination of Service (and does not acquire a 100% vested interest in his or her Account by reason of the circumstances of his or her Termination of Service), the nonvested portion of the Participant's Account shall be forfeited, and shall not be distributed to the Participant pursuant to Section 5. SECTION 5 PLAN DISTRIBUTIONS 5.1 Distributions. A Participant's Account balance shall become distributable to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, as the case may be, upon the Participant's Termination of Service, for any reason. Distribution shall be made in accordance with the following rules: (a) Commencement of Distributions. Distribution with respect to a Participant's Account balance shall be made in accordance with the following provisions: (i) Except as otherwise required pursuant to (ii) below, distribution with respect to a Participant's Account balance shall be made within 30 days after the date of the Participant's Termination of Service. (ii) In the case of any Participant (x) who immediately prior to his or her Termination of Service was a "specified employee" within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, and (y) whose Termination of Service occurs on or after January 1, 2005 for any reason other than death or as a result of having become "disabled" within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code, distribution with respect to such Participant's Account balance shall be made (A) on the day which is six months after the date on which the Participant's Termination of Service occurs (the Participant's "Delayed Distribution Date"), or (B) if the Participant dies before his or her Delayed Distribution Date, by no later than seven business days after the Company receives written notice of the Participant's death. 4
(iii) In the case of any Participant described in (ii) above whose Termination of Service occurs at any time during 2005, distribution with respect to the Participant's Account balance shall not be subject to delay in accordance with the provisions of (ii) above if the Participant's Account balance is distributed to the Participant on or before December 31, 2005. Distribution so made to the Participant shall be treated as having been made upon the Participant's termination of participation in this Plan for purposes of Q & A 20 of IRS Notice 2005-1. (b) Form and Amount of Distributions. Distributions hereunder shall be made in the form of a single lump-sum payment, in an amount equal to the Participant's vested percentage of the balance of his or her Account as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the date as of which the distribution is to be made. (c) Participant's Death. If the Participant dies prior to his or her Termination of Service, or following his or her Termination Service but prior to the distribution of his or her Account, the Participant's Account shall be distributed to the Participant's Beneficiary. The Participant's "Beneficiary" shall be the person(s) designated by the Participant to receive any amount distributable hereunder by reason of his or her death, as indicated in the last written designation of a Beneficiary filed by such Participant with the Committee prior to such Participant's death. If a Participant has failed to designate a Beneficiary, or if no Beneficiary designated by the Participant survives to receive any amount distributable hereunder upon the Participant's death, the following will be deemed to be such Participant's Beneficiary with priority in the order named: (1) his or her spouse; and (2) his or her estate. (d) Special Rule for Amounts Credited to a Participant's Account After a Distribution. If a distribution is made to or on behalf of any Participant by the Plan pursuant to this Section 5, and if any amount is credited to such Participant's Account after such distribution has been made, then the portion of the amount so credited in which the Participant is vested shall be paid to the Participant, or, if the Participant has died, to his Beneficiary (as determined in subsection (c)), in a single lump-sum payment, within 30 days of the later of (1) the date as of which the amount is so credited, or (2) the date on which the Committee determines that such amount is to be so credited. SECTION 6 SOURCE OF PAYMENT All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general assets of the Company, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure such payments. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or as creating in any Participant or Beneficiary any right, title or beneficial ownership interest in or to any assets of the Company. The Plan constitutes a mere promise by the Company to make benefit payments in the future. It is the intention of the Company that the Plan be treated as unfunded for Federal income tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company. 5
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may establish a bookkeeping reserve to reflect its obligations hereunder, or may establish a "grantor" trust, within the meaning of sections 671 through 679 of the Code, to assist it in making the payments provided for hereunder; provided, however, that any bookkeeping reserve, and the assets of any trust, so established shall not be deemed to constitute assets of this Plan, and the assets of any trust so established shall at all times prior to payment to Participants or their beneficiaries remain a part of the general assets of the Company and subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors. SECTION 7 ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have full power and authority to interpret and construe the Plan, to make all determinations considered necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan and the calculation of the amounts creditable and payable thereunder, and to review claims for benefits under the Plan. The Committee's interpretations and constructions of the Plan and its decisions or actions thereunder shall be binding and conclusive on all persons for all purposes. No member of the Committee shall be personally liable by reason of any contract or other instrument executed by such member or on his or her behalf in his or her capacity as a member of the Committee nor for any mistake of judgment made in good faith, and the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Committee and each other employee, officer, or director of the Company to whom any duty or power relating to the administration or interpretation of the Plan may be allocated or delegated, against any cost or expense (including counsel fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim) arising out of any act or omission to act in connection with the Plan unless arising out of such person's own fraud or bad faith. SECTION 8 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated, in whole or in part, by the Board without the consent of any Participant or any other person. The Committee may adopt any amendment that may be necessary or appropriate to facilitate the administration, management and interpretation of the Plan or to conform the Plan thereto, provided any such amendment does not have a material effect on the currently estimated cost to the Company of maintaining the Plan. No such amendment, suspension or termination shall retroactively impair or otherwise adversely affect the rights of any Participant or other person to benefits under the Plan that have accrued prior to the date of such action as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. 6
SECTION 9 GENERAL PROVISIONS The following additional provisions shall be applicable with respect to the Plan. 9.1 Successors and Assigns. The Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns, and Participants, beneficiaries, and their estates. The Plan shall also be binding upon any successor corporation or organization succeeding to substantially all of the assets and business of the Company, but nothing in the Plan shall preclude the Company from merging or consolidating into or with, or transferring all or substantially all of its assets to, another corporation or organization that assumes the Plan and all obligations of the Company hereunder. The Company agrees that it will make appropriate provision for the preservation of Participants' rights under the Plan in any agreement or plan that it may enter into to effect any merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets. Upon such a merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets and assumption, the term "Company" shall refer to such other corporation or organization and the Plan shall continue in full force and effect. 9.2 No Right to Continued Employment. Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving to any Participant the right to be retained in the employ of any Employer or as affecting the right of any Employer to dismiss any Participant. 9.3 Payment of Taxes. The Company shall withhold from all amounts otherwise payable under the Plan all Federal, state, local or other taxes required pursuant to law to be withheld with respect to such payments. 9.4 Prohibition Against Alienation of Benefits. The rights or interests of any Participant under the Plan are not subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by the Participant's creditors or beneficiary. 9.5 Governing Law. The Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York from time to time in effect. 7

EXHIBIT 10.4 PALL CORPORATION MANAGEMENT STOCK PURCHASE PLAN _____ 1. PURPOSE. This document sets forth the Pall Corporation Management Stock Purchase Plan as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005. The purpose of the Plan is to encourage key employees of the Corporation and its Affiliated Companies to increase their ownership of shares of the Corporation's Common Stock by providing such employees with an opportunity to elect to have portions of their total annual compensation paid in the form of Restricted Units, and to have additional matching Restricted Units credited with respect thereto. The Plan also provides certain employees with an opportunity to elect to defer payment with respect to the Restricted Units credited to them that become vested. With respect to these provisions, the Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded plan of deferred compensation for "a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). 2. DEFINITIONS. As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings: "ACCOUNT" and "SUBACCOUNT" shall mean, respectively, the account, and each Subaccount within such Account, that is established for a Participant pursuant to Section 8. "AFFILIATED COMPANIES" shall mean each direct or indirect subsidiary of the Corporation. "BENEFICIARY" shall mean the person or persons designated by a Participant in accordance with Section 12 to receive any payment that is required to be made under the Plan upon the Participant's death. "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation. "BONUS" shall mean, with respect to any Eligible Employee for any Plan Year, the Bonus payable to such Eligible Employee during such year under the Corporation's Executive Incentive Bonus Plan, or, if applicable, under the terms of the Eligible Employee's employment agreement with the Corporation, or under any other plan, program or arrangement of annual incentive compensation maintained by the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies. 9
"BONUS PAYMENT DATE" shall mean each date on which Bonus payments are made under the Corporation's Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. "BUSINESS DAY" shall mean any day on which the Corporation's principal office in the U.S. is open for business. "CEO" shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. "CHANGE IN CONTROL" means the occurrence of any of the following: (a) the "Distribution Date" as defined in Section 3 of the Rights Agreement dated as of November 17, 1989 between the Corporation and United States Trust Company of New York, as Rights Agent as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 20, 1999 and as the same may have been further amended or extended to the time in question or in any successor agreement (the "Rights Agreement"); or (b) any event described in Section 11(a)(ii)(B) of the Rights Agreement; or (c) any event described in Section 13 of the Rights Agreement; or (d) the date on which the number of duly elected and qualified directors of the Corporation who were not either elected by the Board of Directors or nominated by the Board of Directors or its Nominating Committee for election by the shareholders shall equal or exceed one-third of the total number of directors of the Corporation as fixed by its by-laws; provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred, and no rights arising upon a Change in Control as provided in Section 6 shall exist, to the extent that the Board of Directors so determines by resolution adopted prior to the Change in Control. "CLOSING PRICE" shall mean, as of any date, the closing price of a share of Common Stock as reported in the New York Stock Exchange Consolidated Transactions for such date. "CODE" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "COMMITTEE" shall mean the CEO and such other officers of the Corporation as the CEO in his discretion may appoint from time to time. The CEO shall have the power to remove any other member of the Committee at any time. "COMMON STOCK" shall mean the shares of common stock ($0.10 par value) of the Corporation. "COMPENSATION COMMITTEE" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. -2-
"CORPORATION" shall mean Pall Corporation. "CREDITING DATE" shall mean, with respect to any Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount, Purchased Restricted Unit Subaccount or Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount maintained for a Participant under Section 8, the date as of which Restricted Units, or Matching Restricted Units, were first credited to such Subaccount pursuant to Section 5(a), (b), (c), (d), or (e). "DEFERRED VESTED UNITS" shall mean Vested Units with respect to which the Participant has elected to defer payment in accordance with the provisions of Section 7(d) hereof. "DELAYED PAYMENT DATE" shall mean the date on which payment with respect to a Participant's Post-2004 Bonus and Base Salary Units is to be made pursuant to Section 7(f)(i) or Section 7(f)(ii)(B), or the date on which payment with respect to a Participant's Deferred Vested Units is to be made pursuant to Section 7(f)(iii). "DISABLED" shall mean, with respect to any Participant on or after January 1, 2005, that the Participant (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months; or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under any accident and health plan maintained by the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies for its employees. "DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT UNITS" shall mean additional Restricted Units or additional Deferred Vested Units credited to a Participant's Account pursuant to Section 5(f), Section 7(d)(vi) or Section 7(f)(vi). "DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE" shall mean each date on which the Corporation pays a dividend on its Common Stock. "ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE" shall mean, with respect to any Plan Year, any Employee who has been designated under Section 4 as eligible to be credited with Restricted Units for such Plan Year. "EMPLOYEE" shall mean any person employed by the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies. "INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION" shall mean a Participant's Termination of Employment initiated by the Corporation, or by any of its Affiliated Companies, for any reason other than for disability or becoming Disabled or for cause. "MATCHING RESTRICTED UNITS" shall mean Restricted Units that are credited to a Participant's Account pursuant to Section 5(e), to match Restricted Units that are credited to the Participant's Account under Section 5(b), (c) or (d). -3-
"PARTICIPANT" shall mean any Employee for whom an Account has been established, and is being maintained, pursuant to Section 8 hereof. "PLAN" shall mean the Pall Corporation Management Stock Purchase Plan as set forth herein and as amended from time to time. "PLAN YEAR" shall mean the period beginning on August 1 of each calendar year and ending on July 31 of the following calendar year. "POST-2004 BONUS AND BASE SALARY UNITS" shall mean, with respect to any Participant, (i) all Restricted Units credited to the Participant after January 31, 2005 pursuant to elections made by the Participant under Section 5(b), (ii) all Restricted Units credited to the Participant after January 31, 2005 pursuant to elections made by the Participant under Section 5(c), and (iii) all Dividend Equivalent Units credited to the Participant with respect to the Restricted Units described in clauses (i) and (ii) of this paragraph. "RESTRICTED UNIT" shall mean a Unit credited to a Participant pursuant to Section 5 that has not yet become vested in accordance with the provisions of Section 6. "RETIREMENT" shall mean a Participant's Termination of Employment for any reason other than death, if at the time of such Termination of Employment the Participant has attained age 62 and is eligible to receive (i) a Retirement Benefit under the Pall Corporation Cash Balance Pension Plan or (ii), in the case of any Participant who is not a resident of the U.S., a similar type of benefit under any plan or program maintained by the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies (or to which the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies makes contributions) that provides benefits to Employees upon their retirement. "TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT" shall mean the cessation of a Participant's employment with the Corporation and all of its Affiliated Companies irrespective of the reason therefor and irrespective of whether initiated by the Corporation, an Affiliated Company, the Participant or otherwise. "TRADING DAY" shall mean any day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading. "UNIT" shall mean a unit of measurement equivalent to one share of Common Stock, with none of the attendant rights of a shareholder of such share, including, without limitation, the right to vote such share and the right to receive dividends thereon, except to the extent otherwise specifically provided herein. "VESTED UNIT" shall mean a Unit credited to a Participant pursuant to Section 5 that has become vested in accordance with the provisions of Section 6. "VESTING DATE" shall mean, with respect to any Restricted Units credited to a Participant's Account, the date on which such Restricted Units become vested in accordance with the provisions of Section 6. -4-
3. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK AVAILABLE. The number of shares of Common Stock that may be distributed with respect to Restricted Units and Deferred Vested Units credited to Participants under the Plan, (including Dividend Equivalent Units credited with respect to such Units) shall be limited to 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock. If any Restricted Units initially credited to a Participant shall be forfeited, the number of shares of Common Stock no longer payable with respect to the Restricted Units so forfeited shall thereupon be released and shall thereafter be available for the crediting of new Restricted Units under the Plan. The limitation provided under this Section 3 shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 9. The shares of Common Stock distributed under the Plan may be authorized and unissued shares, shares held in the treasury of the Corporation, or shares purchased on the open market by the Corporation at such time or times and in such manner as it may determine. The Corporation shall be under no obligations to acquire shares of Common Stock for distribution to Participants before payment in Common Stock is due. 4. ELIGIBILITY. An Employee shall be eligible to be credited with Restricted Units under Section 5 during any Plan Year only if he or she has been designated by the Compensation Committee as an Eligible Employee with respect to such year. Upon the recommendation of the CEO, the Compensation Committee may select as an Eligible Employee for any Plan Year any Employee who is expected to make significant contributions during the course of such year to the success of the Corporation and its Affiliated Companies and to the growth of their businesses. Any person who has been selected as an Eligible Employee for any Plan Year shall continue to be an Eligible Employee in the Plan for each subsequent Plan Year during the period of his or her employment, subject, however, to the Compensation Committee's right to terminate such individual's eligibility effective beginning as of the first base salary payment date or, if earlier, the first Bonus Payment Date occurring after the date on which the Compensation Committee makes its determination to terminate such individual's eligibility. 5. CREDITING OF RESTRICTED UNITS. For each Plan Year, Eligible Employees shall be credited with Restricted Units in accordance with the following provisions: (a) INITIAL AWARD UNITS. To the extent that the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion so determines, any Employee who is designated as an Eligible Employee for the first time at any time after August 1, 1999 shall be credited, as of the date specified by the Compensation Committee in such determination, with such number of Restricted Units as the Compensation Committee may determine for such Employee, or the Compensation Committee may determine not to grant any Initial Award Units to such Eligible Employee. -5-
(b) BONUS UNITS. Each Employee who is an Eligible Employee for any Plan Year beginning on or after August 1, 1999 may elect to have any part or all of any Bonus that may become payable to the Participant during such year paid in the form of Restricted Units that will be credited to his or her Account hereunder and distributed in accordance with the provisions of this Plan, instead of being paid to the Eligible Employee in cash. If an Eligible Employee has so elected, the Eligible Employee's Account shall be credited on the first Bonus Payment Date during such year with a number of Restricted Units determined by dividing (i) the total amount of the portion of the Eligible Employee's Bonus payable during such year which the Eligible Employee elected to have paid in the form of Restricted Units, by (ii) the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on such Bonus Payment Date or, if such date is not a Trading Day, on the next following day that is a Trading Day. In the event that an Eligible Employee's Bonus is payable in a unit of currency other than U.S. dollars, the portion of the bonus which the Eligible Employee has elected to have paid in the form of Restricted Units shall be converted to U.S. dollars on the Crediting Date (the first Bonus Payment Date during the Plan Year in which such Bonus is payable) at a rate equal to the exchange rate of such currency and U.S. dollars on such Crediting Date as reported in The Wall Street Journal in its issue following the Crediting Date. (c) BASE SALARY UNITS. Each Employee who is an Eligible Employee for any Plan Year beginning on or after August 1, 1999 may elect to have up to 50% of the amount of the base salary otherwise payable to the Eligible Employee on each payday during such year paid in the form of Restricted Units that will be credited to his or her Account hereunder and distributed in accordance with the provisions of this Plan, instead of being paid to the Eligible Employee in cash. If an Eligible Employee has so elected, the amount specified in such election shall be withheld from the payment of base salary otherwise required to be made to the Eligible Employee on each payday during such year, and the Eligible Employee's Account shall be credited on January 31 and on July 31 of such year, with a number of Restricted Units determined by dividing (i) the aggregate amount so withheld from the start of such year, in the case of the Restricted Units to be credited on January 31, or from January 31, in the case of the Restricted Units to be credited on July 31, by (ii) the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on the applicable crediting date or, if such date is not a Trading Day, on the next following day that is a Trading Day. In the event that an Eligible Employee's base salary is payable in a unit of currency other than U.S. dollars, the aggregate amount withheld shall be converted to U.S. dollars on the January 31 or July 31 Crediting Date, as the case may be, at a rate equal to the exchange rate of such currency and U.S. dollars on such Crediting Date as reported in The Wall Street Journal in its issue following the Crediting Date. (d) CASH PAYMENT UNITS. Each Employee who is an Eligible Employee for any Plan Year beginning on or after August 1, 1999 may make a direct cash payment to the Corporation at least seven days prior to (i) the first Bonus Payment Date during such Plan Year and/or (ii) January 31 of such Plan Year. The Crediting Dates with respect to such direct cash payments shall be (i) the first Bonus Payment Date of the Plan Year with respect to cash payments made at least -6-
seven days prior to such Bonus Payment Date and (ii) January 31 with respect to cash payments made at least seven days prior to that date. In consideration of any such cash payment, the Eligible Employee shall have his or her Account credited, on the relevant Crediting Date, with a number of Restricted Units determined by dividing (i) the amount of such cash payment by (ii) the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on such Crediting Date or, if such date is not a Trading Day, on the next following day that is a Trading Day. In the event that an Eligible Employee's direct cash payment is made in a unit of currency other than U.S. dollars, the amount of such payment shall be converted to U.S. dollars on the relevant Crediting Date, at a rate equal to the exchange rate of such currency and U.S. dollars on such Crediting Date as reported in The Wall Street Journal in its issue following the Crediting Date. The aggregate amount of the direct cash payments that an Eligible Employee may make under this Section 5(d) during any Plan Year (the "Cash Purchase Year") shall not exceed the sum of (x) the amount by which 50% of the Eligible Employee's base salary for the Plan Year immediately preceding the Cash Purchase Year exceeds the portion thereof which the Eligible Employee has elected under Section 5(c) to have paid in the form of Restricted Units, plus (y) the amount by which the Bonus payable to the Eligible Employee during the Cash Purchase Year (based on results of operations for the immediately preceding Plan Year) exceeds the portion thereof which the Eligible Employee elected under Section 5(b) to have paid in the form of Restricted Units. (e) MATCHING UNITS. On each date on which any Restricted Units are credited to an Eligible Employee's Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of this Section 5, there shall also be credited to the Eligible Employee's Account on that date a number of Matching Restricted Units equal to (i) 50% of the number of Base Salary Units credited on January 31, 2005 and August 1, 2005 and (ii) 100% of the number of Cash Payment Units purchased after September 10, 2004 and credited on January 31, 2005 and 100% of the number of Restricted Units of all kinds (other than Dividend Equivalent Units) credited after August 1, 2005. (f) DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS. Until the Vesting Date for the Restricted Units that have been credited to a Participant's Account pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Section 5, additional Restricted Units shall be credited to the Participant's Account, with respect to the Restricted Units so credited, as of each Dividend Payment Date. The number of additional Restricted Units to be so credited shall be determined separately for each Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount, for each Purchased Restricted Unit Subaccount, and for each Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount, maintained for a Participant pursuant to Section 8. The number of additional Restricted Units to be credited to each such Subaccount shall be determined by first multiplying (A) the total number of Restricted Units standing to the Participant's credit in such Subaccount on the day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date (including all Dividend Equivalent Units credited to such Subaccount on all previous Dividend Payment Dates), by (B) the per-share dollar amount of the dividend paid on such Dividend Payment Date and then, dividing the resulting amount by the Closing Price of one share of Common Stock on such Dividend Payment Date. -7-
(g) ELECTION PROCEDURES. Any election made by an Eligible Employee under paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section 5 shall be made in accordance with, and shall be subject to, the provisions set forth below. (i) any such election shall be made in writing, on a form furnished to the Eligible Employee for such purpose by the Committee and filed by the Eligible Employee with the Committee. (ii) An election under Section 5(b) with respect to the Bonus payable to an Eligible Employee during the Plan Year beginning August 1, 2005 (based on the application of the bonus formula to the fiscal year ending July 31, 2005) shall be made no later than December 31, 2004. An election under Section 5(b) with respect to the Bonus payable to an Eligible Employee during any Plan Year beginning on or after August 1, 2006 shall be made no less than one year before the beginning of such Plan Year (e.g., an election with respect to the Bonus payable during the Plan Year beginning August 1, 2006 (based on the application of the bonus formula to the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006), must be made by the last Business Day of July 2005). (iii) An election under Section 5(c) with respect to base salary payable to an Eligible Employee during any Plan Year shall be made on or prior to the last Business Day preceding the start of such Plan Year, except as otherwise provided under subparagraph (iv) or (v) below. (iv) In the case of any Eligible Employee who, in the absence of any election under Section 5(c) with respect thereto, would be required to include in his or her gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the base salary payable to the Eligible Employee during any Plan Year beginning on or after August 1, 2005, an election under Section 5(c) with respect to the Eligible Employee's base salary for any such Plan Year shall be made in accordance with the following provisions: (A) For the Plan Year beginning on August 1, 2005, any such election with respect to base salary payable to the Eligible Employee during the period from August 1 through December 31 of such Plan Year shall be made on or prior to March 15, 2005, and any such election with respect to base salary payable to the Eligible Employee during the period from January 1 through July 31 of such Plan Year shall be made on or prior to the last Business Day preceding the start of such Plan Year. (B) For each Plan Year beginning on or after August 1, 2006, any such election with respect to base salary payable to the Eligible Employee during the period from August 1 through December 31 of such Plan Year shall be made on or prior to the close of the calendar year immediately preceding the start of such Plan Year, and any such election with respect to base salary payable to the Eligible Employee during the period from January 1 through July 31 of such Plan Year shall be made on or prior to the last Business Day preceding the start of such Plan Year. -8-
(C) If prior to the start of any Plan Year beginning on or after August 1, 2006, regulations, rulings or other IRS guidance are issued under section 409A of the Code ("section 409A Guidance") that permit base salary payable with respect to services performed by an employee during his or her employer's fiscal year to be deferred pursuant to an election made by no later than the close of the employer's preceding fiscal year, clause (B) above shall not apply with respect to any such Plan Year starting after the date on which such section 409A Guidance is issued. Instead, an election under Section 5(c) with respect to base salary payable to the Eligible Employee during any portion of such Plan Year shall be made on or prior to the last Business Day of the Plan Year immediately preceding such Plan Year. However, if, prior to the date on which such section 409A Guidance is issued, an Eligible Employee made an election under Section 5(c) in accordance with clause (B) above with respect to base salary payable to the Eligible Employee during the period from August 1 through December 31 of such Plan Year, the election so made shall remain in effect except to the extent the Committee, in its discretion, permits such election to be modified prior to the start of such Plan Year. (v) Any Employee who is hired after the start of a Plan Year but who is designated under Section 4 as an Eligible Employee for such year may make election under Section 5(c) with respect to his or her base salary for such year at any time during the 30-day period commencing on his or her date of hire; provided, however, that any election so made shall be effective only with respect to base salary payable to the Eligible Employee for periods of service beginning after the date on which he or she files such election with the Committee. (vi) In his or her election form, the Eligible Employee shall specify, by dollar amount (which shall be an even multiple of $100) or by percentage (which shall be an even multiple of 1%), the portion of his or her Bonus and/or base salary that the Eligible Employee wishes to have paid in the form of Restricted Units credited to his or her Account, instead of in cash. The dollar amount or percentage so specified shall be at least equal to any minimum amount or percentage which the Committee in its discretion may have determined to be applicable to elections under Section 5(b) and/or Section 5(c) for the Plan Year. (vii) Except as otherwise provided in the last sentence of paragraph (iv)(C) above, any election made under Section 5(b) or (c) for any Plan Year shall be irrevocable. (h) OTHER ELECTION RULES. Elections made under Section 5(b) or (c) shall be subject to the following rules: -9-
(i) If an Eligible Employee who has made an election under Section 5(b) with respect to the Bonus payable to the Eligible Employee during any Plan Year terminates employment with the Company and all of its Affiliated Companies for any reason prior to any Bonus Payment Date for such Bonus but is nevertheless entitled to receive a Bonus payment on such date, the portion of such payment that is otherwise required to be paid by means of the crediting of Restricted Units to the Eligible Employee's Account pursuant to his or her election under Section 5(b) shall not be paid in such form, but shall be paid instead in the form of a single lump sum cash payment. Such payment shall be made within 30 days after such Bonus Payment Date. (ii) If an Eligible Employee who has made an election under Section 5(c) with respect to the base salary payable to the Eligible Employee during any Plan Year terminates employment with the Company and all of its Affiliated Companies for any reason prior to any date on which Restricted Units are to be credited to his or her Account with respect to amounts withheld from his or her base salary pursuant to such election, no Restricted Units shall be so credited on such date but instead, the aggregate amount so withheld as of the date of the Eligible Employee's termination of employment shall be paid to the Eligible Employee, without interest thereon, in a single lump sum cash payment. Payment shall be made within 30 days after such termination date. (iii) Any election made by an Eligible Employee under Section 5(b) or (c) shall not be given effect if, at any time during the 12-month period ending on the date as of which any Restricted Units are otherwise required to be credited to his or her Account pursuant to such election, the Eligible Employee received a hardship withdrawal under Section 7.2 of the Pall Corporation Profit-Sharing Plan. 6. VESTING OF UNITS. Restricted Units credited to a Participant's Account, and Dividend Equivalent Units credited with respect thereto, shall become vested in accordance with the provisions set forth below. (a) All Restricted Units standing to a Participant's credit in any Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount, Purchased Restricted Unit Subaccount or Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount maintained for the Participant under Section 8 (including, in each case, all such Units that are Dividend Equivalent Units) shall become vested on the earliest to occur of the following dates: (i) the third anniversary of the Crediting Date for any such Subaccount with a Crediting Date on or before July 31, 2003, (ii) the fourth anniversary of the Crediting Date for any such Subaccount with a Crediting Date after July 31, 2003, -10-
(iii) the date of the Participant's death, (iv) the date as of which the Participant first incurs a disability that entitles the Participant to a Social Security certificate of disability award under the Federal Social Security Act, or, on and after January 1, 2005, the date on which the Participant becomes Disabled, (v) the date on which a Change in Control occurs. (b) If a Participant's Termination of Employment occurs as a result of Retirement or Involuntary Termination prior to the third anniversary of a Crediting Date occurring on or before July 31, 2003, or prior to the fourth anniversary of a Crediting Date occurring after July 31, 2003, for any Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount, Purchased Restricted Unit Subaccount or Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount maintained for the Participant under Section 8 and prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, as of the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment: (i) all Units in any such Purchased Restricted Unit Subaccount (including all such Units that are Dividend Equivalent Units), shall become vested; (ii) the Earned Portion (as defined below) of all Units in any such Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount and in any such Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount (including all such Units that are Dividend Equivalent Units), shall become vested; and (iii) the Unearned Portion (as defined below) of all Units in any such Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount and in any such Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount (including all such Units that are Dividend Equivalent Units) shall be forfeited, and the Participant shall have no further rights with respect thereto. For purposes of the foregoing, the "Earned Portion" of the Units in any Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount and in any Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount maintained for a Participant shall mean the percentage of such Units determined (A) by dividing by 36 the number of months in the period beginning on the Crediting Date for such Subaccount (if such Crediting Date is on or before July 31, 2003) and ending on the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment, or (B) by dividing by 48 the number of months in the period beginning on the Crediting Date for such Subaccount (if such Crediting Date is after July 31, 2003) and ending on the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment, in either case (A) or (B) with any fraction of a month included in such period treated as a full month; and the "Unearned Portion" of the Units in any such Subaccount shall mean the percentage of such Units determined by subtracting from 100% the Earned Portion of such Units, as determined under the preceding clause. -11-
(c) If a Participant's Termination of Employment occurs for any reason other than death, disability or becoming Disabled, Retirement or Involuntary Termination prior to the third anniversary of a Crediting Date occurring on or before July 31, 2003, or prior to the fourth anniversary of a Crediting Date occurring after July 31, 2003, for any Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount, Purchased Restricted Unit Subaccount or Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount maintained for the Participant under Section 8 and prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, as of the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment: (i) all Units in any such Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount and in any such Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount (including all such Units that are Dividend Equivalent Units), shall be forfeited, and the Participant shall have no further rights with respect thereto; and (ii) all Units in any such Purchased Restricted Unit Subaccount (including all such Units that are Dividend Equivalent Units) shall become vested. 7. PAYMENT FOR VESTED UNITS. Payment with respect to a Participant's Vested Units shall be made in accordance with the provisions set forth below. (a) TIME FOR PAYMENT. Payment with respect to a Participant's Vested Units shall be made to the Participant or, in the event of the Participant's death, to his or her Beneficiary, within 30 days after the Vesting Date for such Units, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d), (f)(i) or (f)(ii)(B) below. (b) FORM AND AMOUNT OF PAYMENT. Except as provided in paragraph (c) below, payment to be made with respect to any of a Participant's Vested Units at the time specified in paragraph (a) above, or at the time specified in paragraph (f)(i) below, shall be made in the form of a single lump sum payment consisting of (i) a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the total number of whole Vested Units payment for which is to be made at such time (including, in the case of any Vested Units payment for which is to be made under paragraph (f)(i), all Dividend Equivalent Units credited with respect to such Vested Units pursuant to paragraph (f)(vi) below), and (ii) a cash payment for any fractional part of a Unit payment for which is to be made at such time. The amount of such cash payment shall be determined by multiplying such fractional part by the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on the first Trading Day preceding the date of payment. (c) PAYMENT ON ACCOUNT OF TERMINATION. Payment to be made at the time specified in paragraph (a) above, or at the time specified in paragraph (f)(ii)(B) below, with respect to a Participant's Units that become vested pursuant to Section 6(c)(ii) shall be made, in either case, by the issuance of a number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the lesser of (x) the aggregate value of the number of such Units payment for which is to be made at such time, determined by multiplying such number of Units by the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on the date or dates as of which such Units were credited to the Participant's Account, or (y) the aggregate value of the number of such Units payment for which is to be made at such time, determined by -12-
multiplying such number of Units by the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on the Vesting Date for such Units, by (z) the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on such Vesting Date or, if such Vesting Date was not a Trading Day, the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on the first Trading Day preceding such Vesting Date. If payment for any of such Units is to be made at the time specified in paragraph (f)(ii)(B) below, payment with respect to such Units shall consist of the number of shares of Common Stock determined in accordance with the preceding sentence, plus the number of Dividend Equivalent Units credited with respect to such Units pursuant to paragraph (f)(vi) below. If the total number of shares of Common Stock determined in accordance with the provisions of either of the two preceding sentences includes a fractional part of a share, payment with respect to such fractional part shall be made in cash, in an amount determined by multiplying such fractional part by the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on the first Trading Day preceding the date of payment. (d) DEFERRED PAYMENT. Subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) below, payment with respect to part or all of a Participant's Restricted Units that become vested on any Vesting Date pursuant to Section 6(a)(i) or (ii) shall be deferred, and shall be made at the time and in the manner hereinafter set forth, if the Participant so elects in accordance with the following provisions: (i) An election by the Participant hereunder with respect to any Restricted Units that become vested on any Vesting Date shall be made in writing, on a form furnished to the Participant for such purpose by the Committee. The form shall be filed with the Committee at least one year prior to such Vesting Date. (ii) In the Participant's election form, the Participant shall specify the number of such Restricted Units with respect to which the Participant wishes to defer payment, and the date on which payment with respect to such Units shall be made (the "Payment Date"). (iii) The Participant may select, as the Payment Date for such Units, (A)(1) the first Business Day of the third calendar year following the calendar year in which the Vesting Date for such Units occurs, or any later calendar month, or (2) in the case of any such Units that become vested on or after January 31, 2006, the first Business Day of any calendar year or month after the fifth anniversary of the Vesting Date for such Units; (B)(1) the first Business Day of the calendar year following the date on which the Participant's Termination of Employment occurs for any reason, or (2) in the case of any such Units that become vested on or after January 31, 2006, the later of (x) the first Business Day referred to in clause (B)(1) or (y) the first Business Day of the calendar month following the fifth anniversary of the Vesting Date for such Units; or (C) the earlier of (1) the first Business Day of any calendar year or month selected by the Participant which is a year or month permitted to be selected under clause (A) of this sentence, or (2) the first Business Day of the calendar year or month referred to in clause (B) of this sentence. -13-
(iv) Any election made hereunder by the Participant shall be irrevocable. (v) As of the Vesting Date for any Restricted Units covered by a deferral election made by a Participant hereunder, the number of such Units shall be transferred from the Restricted Unit Subaccount or Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount in which such Units were recorded to the appropriate Deferred Vested Unit Subaccount established for the Participant under Section 8. (vi) Until payment has been made with respect to all of the Units in any Deferred Vested Unit Subaccount maintained for the Participant under Section 8, there shall be credited to each such Subaccount, as of each Dividend Payment Date, a number of additional Deferred Vested Units determined by first multiplying (A) the total number of Deferred Vested Units standing to the Participant's credit in such Subaccount on the day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date (including all Dividend Equivalent Units credited to such Subaccount on all previous Dividend Payment Dates), by (B) the per-share dollar amount of the dividend paid on such Dividend Payment Date and then, dividing the resulting amount by the Closing Price of one share of Common Stock on such Dividend Payment Date. (vii) Except as provided in subparagraph (viii) below, payment with respect to the Deferred Vested Units in any Deferred Vested Unit Subaccount maintained for the Participant shall be made on the Payment Date specified by the Participant in his or her deferral election with respect to such Units or, if applicable, on the Delayed Payment Date for such Units provided in paragraph (f)(iii) below. Payment with respect to the Deferred Vested Units payable on any Payment Date or Delayed Payment Date shall be made (A) by the issuance of one share of Common Stock for each whole Deferred Vested Unit payable on such Payment Date or Delayed Payment Date, and (B) by a cash payment for any fractional part of a Deferred Vested Unit payable on such Payment Date or Delayed Payment Date. The amount of such cash payment shall be determined by multiplying such fractional part by the Closing Price of a share of Common Stock on the first Trading Day preceding the date of payment. (viii) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section 7 to the contrary, payment with respect to any part or all of any Deferred Vested Unit Subaccount maintained for a Participant may be made to the Participant on any date earlier than the Payment Date specified by the Participant in his deferral election for such Units if (A) the Participant requests such early payment and (B) the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines that such early payment is necessary to help the Participant meet an "unforeseeable emergency" within the meaning of Section 1.457-6(c)(2) of the federal income tax regulations or, in the case of any request for early payment made after January 1, 2005, within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(ii)(I) of the Code. The amount that may be so paid may not exceed the amount necessary to meet such emergency or, for any early payment requested after January 1, 2005, the amount permitted to be paid under section 409A(a)(2)(B)(ii)(II) of the Code. -14-
(e) LIMITATIONS ON DEFERRALS. A deferral election otherwise permitted to be made under paragraph (d) above shall be subject to the following limitations: (i) The Committee may deny any Participant the right to make such election if it determines, in its sole discretion, that such deferral election by the Participant might cause the Plan to fail to be treated as a plan of deferred compensation "for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" for purposes of ERISA. (ii) If a Change in Control should occur after the date on which the Participant's election form is filed with the Committee but before the date that otherwise would have been the Vesting Date under Section 6(a)(i) or (ii) for the Units designated in such form, the Participant's deferral election shall not be given effect, and payment with respect to such Units shall be made in accordance with the other applicable provisions of this Section 7. (iii) No deferral election shall be effective hereunder if, at any time during the 12-month period ending on the Vesting Date, the Participant received a hardship withdrawal under Section 7.2 of the Pall Corporation Profit-Sharing Plan. (iv) No amount may be deferred with respect to the Participant's Vested Units pursuant to a Participant's deferral election hereunder to the extent that any tax is required to be withheld with respect to such amount pursuant to applicable federal, state or local law. (f) DELAY IN TIME FOR PAYMENT. To the extent provided in subparagraph (i), (ii) or (iii) below, payment otherwise required to be made with respect to any of a Participant's Vested Units at the time specified in paragraph (a) above, and payment otherwise required to be made with respect to any of Participant's Deferred Vested Units on the Payment Date for such Units determined under clause (B)(2) or clauses (B)(2) and (C)(2) of paragraph (d)(iii) above, shall not be made at such times but shall be made, instead, at the times provided in subparagraph (i), (ii) or (iii) below. (i) Payment with respect to any of a Participant's Post-2004 Bonus and Base Salary Units that become vested pursuant to Section 6(a)(v) by reason of the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be made within 30 days after, (A) the earliest date on which such Units otherwise would become vested under Section 6(a) in the absence of the occurrence of a Change in Control, or (B), if earlier, the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment for any reason other than death or as a result of the Participant's having become Disabled; provided, however, that if the Participant was a Key Employee (as defined in subparagraph (iv) below) immediately prior to such Termination of Employment, payment pursuant to this clause (B) shall be made on the day that is 6 months after the date of such Termination of Employment or, if the Participant dies before that day, by no later than 7 Business Days after the Corporation receives written notice of the Participant's death. -15-
(ii) In the case of a Participant whose Termination of Employment occurs after January 31, 2005 for any reason other than the Participant's death or as a result of the Participant having become Disabled, and who was a Key Employee immediately prior to his or her Termination of Employment, payment with respect to any of the Participant's Post-2004 Bonus and Base Salary Units that become vested pursuant to Section 6(b) or (c) by reason of the Participant's Termination of Employment shall be made at the times provided below: (A) Payment with respect to any such Units that become vested by reason of the Participant's Termination of Employment at any time during calendar year 2005 shall be made at the time specified in paragraph (a) above, provided that such payment is made on or prior to December 31, 2005. Such payment shall be treated as having been made to the Participant upon his or her termination of participation in the Plan, for purposes of Q & A 20 of IRS Notice 2005-1. (B) Payment with respect to any such Units that become vested by reason of the Participant's Termination of Employment at any time after December 31, 2005 (or which become vested by reason of the Participant's Termination of Employment before that date but payment with respect to which is not made to the Participant on or before that date) shall be made on the day which is 6 months after the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment or, if the Participant dies before such day, by no later than 7 Business Days after the Corporation receives written notice of the Participant's death. (iii) In any case where (A) any of a Participant's Deferred Vested Units that became vested on or after January 31, 2006 have a Payment Date determined by reference to the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment pursuant to clause (B)(2) or clauses (B)(2) and (C)(2) under paragraph (d)(iii) above, (B) the Payment Date for such Units, as so determined, is earlier than 6 months after the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment, (C) the Participant's Termination of Employment occurs for any reason other than death or as a result of the Participant having becoming Disabled, and (D) the Participant is a Key Employee immediately prior to the Participant's Termination of Employment, payment with respect to such Deferred Vested Units shall be made on the day which is 6 months after the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment or, if the Participant dies before such day, by no later than 7 business days after the Corporation receives written notice of the Participant's death. -16-
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (f), the term "Key Employee" shall mean a Participant who, as of any date of reference, is a "specified employee" within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code. (v) The provisions of subparagraph (i) and (ii) above shall not apply to the payment required to be made under this Section 7 with respect to a Participant's Units that become vested upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, or to the payment required to be made under this Section 7 with respect to a Participant's Units that become vested upon the Participant's Termination of Employment, if in either case the Participant would not be required to include such payment in his or her gross income for federal income tax purposes if such payment were made to the Participant at the time specified in paragraph (a) above. The provisions of subparagraph (iii) above shall not apply to the payment required to be made under this Section 7 with respect to any of a Participant's Deferred Vested Units if the Participant would not be required to include such payment in his or her gross income for federal income tax purposes if such payment were made to the Participant on the Payment Date for such Units determined under paragraph (d)(iii) above. (vi) If payment with respect to any of a Participant's Post-2004 Bonus and Base Salary Units is delayed pursuant to subparagraph (i) or subparagraph (ii)(B) above, Dividend Equivalent Units shall be credited to the Participant's Account with respect to such Units, in the same manner as provided in paragraph (d)(vi) above, on each Dividend Payment Date occurring during the period from the Vesting Date for such Units to the Delayed Payment Date for such Units. 8. ACCOUNTS. There shall be established on the books and records of the Corporation, for bookkeeping purposes only, a separate Account for each Participant, to reflect the Participant's interest under the Plan. Within each Account so established for each Participant there shall be established and maintained the following Subaccounts: an "Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount" to reflect all Restricted Units to be credited to the Participant's Account on any Crediting Date pursuant to Section 5(a); a "Purchased Restricted Unit Subaccount" to reflect all Restricted Units to be credited to the Participant's account on any Crediting Date pursuant to Section 5(b), (c) or (d); a "Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount" to reflect all Matching Restricted Units to be credited to the Participant's Account on any Crediting Date pursuant to Section 5(e); and a "Deferred Vested Unit Subaccount" to reflect all Vested Units with respect to which a Participant has elected to defer payment, and for which the Participant has selected the same Payment Date, pursuant to Section 7(d). -17-
A Participant's Account and Subaccounts shall be adjusted from time to time to reflect all Dividend Equivalent Units to be credited thereto pursuant to Section 5(f) and Section 7(d)(vi), all payments made with respect to the Units reflected therein pursuant to Section 7, and, in the case of any Initial Award Restricted Unit Subaccount, Purchased Restricted Unit Subaccount or Matching Restricted Unit Subaccount maintained for a Participant, any forfeitures of Units reflected therein pursuant to Section 6. A Participant's interest in any Deferred Vested Unit Subaccount maintained for the Participant shall be fully vested and nonforfeitable at all times. 9. CERTAIN ADJUSTMENTS TO PLAN SHARES. In the event of any change in the shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination or exchange of shares, or any rights offering to purchase shares of Common Stock at a price substantially below fair market value, or any similar change affecting the shares of Common Stock, the number and kind of shares represented by Units credited to Participants' Accounts shall be appropriately adjusted consistent with such change in such manner as the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, may deem equitable to prevent substantial dilution or enlargement of the rights granted to, or available for, the Participants hereunder. The Committee shall give notice to each Participant of any adjustment made pursuant to this Section and, upon such notice, such adjustment shall be effective and binding for all purposes. 10. LISTING AND QUALIFICATION OF COMMON STOCK. The Corporation, in its discretion, may postpone the issuance, delivery, or distribution of shares of Common Stock with respect to any Vested Units until completion of such stock exchange listing or other qualification of such shares under any state or federal law, rule or regulation as the Corporation may consider appropriate, and may require any Participant or Beneficiary to make such representations and furnish such information as it may consider appropriate in connection with the issuance or delivery of the shares in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. 11. TAXES. The Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies may make such provisions and take such steps as it may deem necessary or appropriate for the withholding of all federal, state and local taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to any payments to be made under the Plan including, but not limited to (i) deducting the amount so required to be withheld from any other amount then or thereafter payable to a Participant or Beneficiary, and/or (ii) requiring a Participant or Beneficiary to pay to the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies the amount so required to be withheld as a condition of the issuance, delivery, or distribution of any shares of Common Stock. With the approval of the Compensation Committee, the Committee may permit such amount to be paid in shares of Common Stock previously owned by the Participant, or a portion of the shares of Common Stock that otherwise would be distributed to such Participant in respect to his or her Vested Units, or a combination of cash and shares of Common Shares. -18-
12. DESIGNATION AND CHANGE OF BENEFICIARY. Each Participant shall file with the Committee a written designation of one or more persons as the Beneficiary who shall be entitled to receive any amount, or any shares of Common Stock, payable under the Plan upon his or her death. A Participant may, from time to time, revoke or change his or her Beneficiary designation without the consent of any previously designated Beneficiary by filing a new designation with the Committee. The last such designation received by the Committee shall be controlling; provided, however, that no designation, or change or revocation thereof, shall be effective unless received by the Committee prior to the Participant's death, and in no event shall it be effective as of a date prior to such receipt. If at the date of a Participant's death, there is no designation of a Beneficiary in effect for the Participant pursuant to the provisions of this Section 12, or if no Beneficiary designated by the Participant in accordance with the provisions hereof survives to receive any amount, or any shares of Common Stock, payable under the Plan by reason of the Participant's death, the Participant's estate shall be treated as the Participant's Beneficiary for purposes of the Plan. 13. RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS. A Participant's rights and interests under the Plan shall be subject to the following provisions: (a) A Participant shall have the status of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation with respect to his or her right to receive any payment under the Plan. The Plan shall constitute a mere promise by the Corporation or the applicable Affiliated Company to make payments in the future of the benefits provided for herein. It is intended that the arrangements reflected in the Plan be treated as unfunded for tax purposes, as well as for purposes of any applicable provisions of Title I of ERISA. (b) A Participant's rights to payments under the Plan shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or his or her Beneficiary. (c) Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any Participant any right to be retained in the employment of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies. (d) No Participant shall have the right, by virtue of having been selected as an Eligible Employee with respect to any Plan Year, to be automatically treated as an Eligible Employee with respect to any subsequent Plan Year. -19-
(e) No Restricted Units credited to a Participant's Account, and no payments made with respect to such Units upon or after they become vested, shall be considered as compensation under any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies, except as specifically provided in any such plan or as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. 14. ADMINISTRATION. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. The Committee may act at a meeting, including a telephone meeting, by action of a majority of the members present, or without a meeting by unanimous written consent. In addition to the responsibilities and powers assigned to the Committee elsewhere in the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority, in its discretion, to establish from time to time guidelines or regulations for the administration of the Plan, interpret the Plan, and make all determinations considered necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan; provided, however, that any questions as to the rights under the Plan of any person who is an Elected Officer under Section 4.01(a) of the By-Laws of the Corporation, as amended on July 15, 2003 or thereafter, shall be determined by the Compensation Committee instead of by the Committee. The Committee may delegate any ministerial or nondiscretionary function pertaining to the administration of the Plan to any one or more officers of the Corporation. All decisions, actions or interpretations of the Committee or the Compensation Committee under the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any determination made by the Committee or the Compensation Committee after the occurrence of a Change in Control that denies in whole or in part any claim made by any individual for benefits under the Plan shall be subject to judicial review, under a "de novo", rather than a deferential standard. 15. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION. The Board of Directors may, with prospective or retroactive effect, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time; provided, however, that (a) no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall adversely affect the rights of any Participant with respect to any Units previously credited to the Participant's Account, without his or her written consent and (b) no amendment which constitutes a "material revision" of the Plan, as the term material revision is defined in the applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange, shall be effective unless approved by the shareholders in the manner required by such rules and by applicable law. 16. SUCCESSOR CORPORATION. The obligations of the Corporation under the Plan shall be binding upon any successor corporation or organization resulting from the merger, consolidation or other reorganization of the Corporation, or upon any successor corporation or organization succeeding to substantially all of the assets and business of the Corporation. The Corporation agrees that it will make appropriate provision for the preservation of Participants' rights under the Plan in any agreement or plan which it may enter into or adopt to effect any such merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets. -20-
17. GOVERNING LAW. The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 18. EFFECTIVE DATE. The Plan was adopted effective as of June 29, 1999 by the Board of Directors, acting by the Compensation Committee, and approved by the shareholders of the Corporation by a majority of the votes cast in person or by proxy at the 1999 annual meeting of the Corporation's shareholders. The effectiveness of the amendment to Section 5(e) made by the Compensation Committee on September 10, 2004 was conditioned on approval of the Pall Corporation 2005 Stock Compensation Plan by shareholders at the 2004 Annual Meeting, which approval was granted at the Annual Meeting on November 17, 2004. [As adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on June 29, 1999, amended by that Committee by Consent dated October 1, 1999, approved by shareholders at the annual meeting on November 17, 1999 and further amended by the Compensation Committee by Consents dated January 19, 2000 and March 28, 2001 and at a meeting held July 16, 2002, by the Executive Committee by Consent dated January 30, 2003 and by the Compensation Committee at meeting held October 16, 2003, the last-mentioned amendment having been approved by shareholders at the Annual Meeting on November 19, 2003, and further amended by the Compensation Committee at meetings held January 21, 2004, September 10, 2004, January 19, 2005 and July 19, 2005.] -21-

EXHIBIT 10.5 AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT dated July 20, 2005, between PALL CORPORATION, a New York corporation (the "Company"), and ERIC KRASNOFF ("Executive"). WHEREAS, the parties hereto are parties to an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated January 21, 2004, (the "Existing Agreement"), and WHEREAS, the parties hereto wish to amend the Existing Agreement to comply with the requirements of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and to make certain other changes in the Existing Agreement, NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree that the Existing Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: ss.1. Employment and Term. ------------------- The Company hereby employs Executive, and Executive hereby agrees to serve, as an executive employee of the Company, with the duties set forth in ss.2, for a term (hereinafteR called the "Term of Employment") which began August 1, 2003 (the "Term Commencement Date") and ending, unless sooner terminated under ss.2 or ss.4, on the effective date specified in a notice OF termination given by either party to the other except that such effective date shall not be earlier than the second anniversary of the date on which such notice is given. ss.2. Duties. ------ (a) As used herein, the term "chief executive officer" means the person who has the title of chief executive officer of the Company and also has such authority and duties as are customarily possessed by and assigned to a chief executive officer. If at any time during the Term of Employment--
(i) the Board of Directors shall fail to elect Executive to, or shall remove him from, the office which, in accordance with the by-laws as then in effect or any resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, carries with it the title, authority and duties of chief executive officer, or (ii) the by-laws are amended in such a way that, or the Board of Directors takes any action the effect of which is that, Executive no longer has the title of and the authority and duties which are customarily possessed by and assigned to a chief executive officer, then in either such event Executive shall have the right at his option to terminate the Term of Employment by not less than 30 days' notice to the Secretary of the Company given at any time thereafter. During any period of time when Executive has the right to terminate under this paragraph but elects not to do so, he shall hold such office or offices in the Company, and perform such duties and assignments relating to the business of the Company, as the Board of Directors and/or the chief executive officer shall direct except that Executive shall not be required to hold any office or perform any duties or assignment inconsistent with his experience and qualifications or not customarily performed by a senior executive corporate officer. So long as Executive is performing or stands ready to perform duties and assignments in accordance with the preceding sentence, the Term of Employment shall continue until it thereafter terminates or is terminated pursuant to any applicable provision hereof (including but not limited to termination at Executive's option under this paragraph). (b) During the Term of Employment, Executive shall, except during customary vacation periods and periods of illness, devote substantially all of his business time and attention to the performance of his duties hereunder and to the business and affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries and to promoting the best interests of the Company and its subsidiaries, and he shall not, either during or outside of such normal business hours, engage in any activity inimical to such best interests. ss.3. Compensation and Benefits During Term of Employment. -2-
(a) Base Salary. With respect to the period beginning on the Term Commencement Date and ending on July 31, 2004, the Company shall pay to Executive a Base Salary (in addition to the compensation provided for elsewhere in this Agreement) at the rate of $760,000 per annum (hereinafter called the "Original Base Salary"). With respect to each Contract Year beginning with the Contract Year which starts August 1, 2004, the Company shall pay Executive a Base Salary at such rate as the Board of Directors may determine but not less than the Original Base Salary adjusted as follows: The term "Contract Year" as used herein means the period from August 1 of each year through July 31 of the following year. For each Contract Year during the Term of Employment beginning with the Contract Year which starts August 1, 2004, the minimum compensation payable to Executive under this ss.3(a) (hereinafter called the "Minimum Base Salary") shall be determined by increasing (or decreasing) the Original Base Salary by the percentage increase (or decrease) of the Consumer Price Index (as hereinafter defined) for the month of June immediately preceding the start of the Contract Year in question over (or below) the Consumer Price Index for June 2003. The term "Consumer Price Index" as used herein means the "Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers" compiled and published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor for "New York - Northern N. J. - Long Island, NY-NJ-CT-PA". To illustrate the operation of the foregoing provisions of this ss.3(a): Executive's Base Salary for the Contract Year August 1, 2004 through July 31, 2005 shall be not less than the Original Base Salary adjusted by the percentage increase (or decrease) of the Consumer Price Index for June 2004 over (or below) said Index for June 2003. Further adjustment in the Minimum Base Salary shall be made for each ensuing Contract Year, in each case (i) using the Consumer Price Index for June 2003 as the base except as provided in the immediately following paragraph hereof and (ii) applying the percentage increase (or decrease) in the Consumer Price Index since said base month to the Original Base Salary to determine the Minimum Base Salary. The Base Salary shall be paid in such periodic installments as the Company may determine but not less often than monthly. If with respect to any Contract Year (including the Contract Year beginning August 1, 2004) the Board of Directors fixes the Base Salary at an amount higher than the Minimum Base Salary, then (unless a -3-
resolution adopted simultaneously with the resolution fixing such higher Base Salary for such Contract Year provides otherwise), for the purpose of determining the Minimum Base Salary for subsequent Contract Years: (i) the amount of the higher Base Salary so fixed shall be deemed substituted for the Original Base Salary wherever the Original Base Salary is referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph hereof, and (ii) the base month for determining the Consumer Price Index adjustment shall be June of the calendar year in which the Contract Year to which such higher Base Salary is applicable begins (e.g., if the Board fixes a Base Salary for the Contract Year beginning August 1, 2004 which is higher than the Minimum Base Salary, then June 2004 would become the base month for the purposes of making the CPI adjustment to determine the Minimum Base Salary for subsequent Contract Years). (b) Bonus Compensation. With respect to each Fiscal Year of the Company falling in whole or in part within the Term of Employment beginning with the Fiscal Year ending July 31, 2004, Executive shall be eligible to receive a Bonus (in addition to his Base Salary) in accordance with the terms of the Pall Corporation 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company on October 16, 2003, approved by shareholders at the annual meeting of shareholders on November 19, 2003, and amended by the Board of Directors, acting by its Compensation Committee, on July 19, 2005, a copy of which is annexed hereto and incorporated herein by reference (the "Bonus Plan"). Words and terms used herein with initial capital letters and not defined herein are used herein as defined in the Bonus Plan. For purposes of determining the amount of the Bonus payable to Executive for any Fiscal Year under the Bonus Plan (the "Plan Bonus"), Executive's Target Bonus Percentage shall be 150% of his Base Salary for such Fiscal Year. (c) Fringe Benefits and Perquisites. During the Term of Employment, Executive shall enjoy the customary perquisites of office, including but not limited to office space and furnishings, secretarial services, expense reimbursements, and any similar emoluments customarily afforded to senior executive officers of the Company. Executive shall also be entitled to receive or participate in all "fringe benefits" and employee benefit plans provided or made available by the Company to its executives or management personnel generally, such as, but not limited to, group hospitalization, medical, life and disability insurance, and pension, retirement, profit-sharing and stock option or purchase plans. -4-
(d) Vacation. Executive shall be entitled each year to a vacation or vacations in accordance with the policies of the Company as determined by the Board or by an authorized senior officer of the Company from time to time. The Company shall not pay Executive any additional compensation for any vacation time not used by Executive. (e) Relocation Expenses. If at any time during the Term of Employment Executive changes the location of his principal office, either at the request of the Company or because it is in the best interests of the Company for him to do so, to a location more than one hour's commuting time from the present principal office of the Company in East Hills, Long Island, New York, the Company shall reimburse Executive for all costs and expenses reasonably related to or arising from such relocation, including but not limited to the cost of suitable housing at the new location, the cost of continuing to maintain his residence at the old location if he so elects, moving expenses, and the amounts necessary to equalize Executive's taxes and cost of living between the old and new locations so that Executive will not have suffered any financial disadvantage from having relocated. ss.4. Termination by Reason of Disability, Death, Retirement or Change in Control. (a) Disability or Death. If, during the Term of Employment, Executive, by reason of physical or mental disability, has been incapable of performing his principal duties hereunder for an aggregate of 130 working days out of any period of 12 consecutive months, the Company at its option may terminate the Term of Employment effective immediately by notice to Executive given within 90 days after the end of such 12-month period. If Executive shall die during the Term of Employment or if the Company terminates the Term of Employment pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence by reason of Executive's disability, the Company shall pay to Executive, or to Executive's legal representatives, or in accordance with a direction given by Executive to the Company in writing, (i) Executive's Base Salary to the end of the month in which such death or termination for disability occurs and (ii) any Plan Bonus or pro rata portion thereof that Executive is entitled to receive in accordance with the terms of the Bonus Plan. -5-
(b) Retirement. (i) The Term of Employment shall end automatically, without action by either party, on Executive's 65th birthday unless prior to such birthday Executive and the Company have agreed in writing that the Term of Employment shall continue past such 65th birthday. In the latter event, unless the parties have agreed otherwise, the Term of Employment shall be automatically renewed and extended each year, as of Executive's birthday, for an additional one-year term, unless either party has given a Non-Renewal Notice. A Non-Renewal Notice shall be effective as of Executive's ensuing birthday only if given not less than 60 days before such birthday and shall state that the party giving such notice elects that this Agreement shall not automatically renew itself further, with the result that the Term of Employment shall end on Executive's ensuing birthday. (ii) If the Term of Employment ends pursuant to this ss.4(b) by reason of a notice given by either party as herein permitted or automatically at age 65 or any subsequent birthday, the Company shall pay to Executive, or to another payee specified by Executive to the Company in writing, (i) Executive's Base Salary prorated to the date on which the Term of Employment ends and (ii) any Plan Bonus or pro rata portion thereof that Executive is entitled to receive in accordance with the terms of the Bonus Plan. (iii) Anything hereinabove to the contrary notwithstanding, if any provision of this ss.4(b) violates federal or applicable state law relating to discrimination on account of age, such provision shall be deemed modified or suspended to the extent necessary to eliminate such violation of law. If at a later date, by reason of changed circumstances or otherwise, the enforcement of such provision as set forth herein would no longer constitute a violation of law, then it shall be enforced in accordance with its terms as set forth herein. -6-
(c) Change in Control. In event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Bonus Plan), Executive shall have the right to terminate the Term of Employment, by notice to the Company given at any time after such Change in Control, effective on the date specified in such notice, which date shall not be more than (but can be less than) one year after the giving of such notice. ss.5. Severance. In the event that the Term of Employment is terminated by the Company under ss.1 hereof or by Executive under ss.2 or ss.4(c) hereof, Executive shall be entitled to receive from the Company, as severance pay, a single lump sum cash payment in an amount equal to the present value, determined as of the date on which the Term of Employment ends by reason of such termination, of (i) the Base Salary that would have been paid to Executive during or with respect to the 24-month period following the end of the Term of Employment if Base Salary had continued to be payable to Executive during or with respect to such period at the same annual rate at which Executive's Base Salary was payable immediately prior to the end of the Term of Employment (the "Base Salary Severance Component") and (ii) an amount equal to 150% of the Base Salary Severance Component (representing the maximum Bonus payable to Executive under the Bonus Plan). In determining such present value, it shall be assumed (i) that the Base Salary Severance Component is payable in equal periodic installments, at the same times that Executive's Base Salary would have been payable if the Term of Employment had not ended and (ii) that the 150%-of-Base-Salary bonus component of the severance pay, provided for in clause "(ii)" of the preceding sentence, is payable in two equal installments, at the end of the 12th month and the 24th month of such 24-month period. In determining such present value, the discount rate to be used shall be equal to the yield to maturity on the issue of two-year U.S. Treasury Notes most recently offered by the U.S. Treasury Department for sale to the public prior to the date on which the Term of Employment ends. The severance payment provided for herein shall be made within 20 days after the end of the Term of Employment. -7-
ss.6. Annual Contract Pension and Medical Coverage After Term of Employment. (a) For a period of 120 consecutive months beginning with the month following the end of the Term of Employment, the Company shall pay (i) to Executive during his lifetime, and (ii) if Executive is not living at the time any such payment is due, then to such payee or payees (including a trust or trusts) as Executive may at any time (whether during or after the Term of Employment) designate by written notice to the Company or in his last will and testament or, if no such designation is made, then to the legal representatives of Executive's estate (any such designated payee or estate being hereinafter called "Executive's Successor") an "Annual Contract Pension" computed as follows: The term "Final Pay" as used herein means one-third of the aggregate of Executive's total cash compensation (i.e., Base Salary plus incentive compensation and any other bonus payments) for those three full fiscal years out of the last five full fiscal years of the Term of Employment with respect to which three fiscal years Executive received the highest total cash compensation. The Annual Contract Pension payable to Executive for each "Retirement Year" (as hereinafter defined) shall be an amount determined by (I) adjusting Executive's Final Pay for changes in the Consumer Price Index in the manner set forth in ss.3(a) except that for purposes of the adjustment under this ss.6, the base month, instead of being June 2003, shall be the month preceding the month in which payment of the Annual Contract Pension commences and the comparison month shall be the same month in each succeeding year and (II) multiplying the Final Pay as so adjusted by 60% and subtracting therefrom the amount which, as of the last day of the Term of Employment (i.e., the effective date of termination of the Term of -8-
Employment under any of the provisions of ss.ss. 1, 2 or 4 hereof), is the maximum annual benefit payable, in accordance with ss.415(b)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code (or successor section), as adjusted by the Secretary of the Treasury to such last day under ss. 415(d) of the Code (or successor section), under a pension plan which qualifies under ss. 401(a) of the Code (or successor section). Such maximum annual benefit is hereinafter called the "Maximum Qualified Plan Pension". Each 12-month period beginning on the first day of the month in which the Annual Contract Pension first becomes payable hereunder and on the first day of the same month during each of the succeeding years in which the Annual Contract Pension is payable hereunder is herein called a "Retirement Year." There shall be no adjustment of the Final Pay based on the Consumer Price Index for the purpose of determining the Annual Contract Pension for the first Retirement Year so that during such first Retirement Year the Annual Contract Pension shall be 60% of Final Pay minus the Maximum Qualified Plan Pension; there shall be such adjustment of Final Pay for the purpose of determining the Annual Contract Pension for the second and each succeeding Retirement Year. (b) The Company hereby represents to and agrees with Executive, in order to induce Executive to enter into this Employment Agreement, as follows: For purposes of the Company's Supplementary Pension Plan, the amount of the offset pursuant to ss. 3.1(b)(i) thereof shall be the amount of the pension in fact payable to Executive under the Pall Corporation Cash Balance Pension Plan, after giving effect to any distribution theretofore made under said Plan pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order. The immediately preceding sentence shall not, however, be deemed to modify the penultimate sentence of said ss. 3.1, which reads and provides as follows: "For purposes of this Section, the amount of the pension payable to the Member under any Other Retirement Program shall be deemed to be the amount payable thereunder to the Member in the form of a single life annuity for the Member's life, whether or not the Member receives payment of such pension in such form; provided, however, that the amount of such pension shall be taken into account under (b)(i) above only on and after the date on which payment of the Member's pension under such Other Retirement Program commences or is paid." -9-
(c) The Annual Contract Pension shall be paid in equal monthly installments on the last business day of each month during the period with respect to which the Annual Contract Pension is payable. (d) So long as Executive is living it shall be a condition of the payment of the Annual Contract Pension that, to the extent permitted by Executive's health, he shall be available for advisory services requested by the Board of Directors of the Company, the Executive Committee of said Board or the chief executive officer of the Company, provided that such advisory services shall not require more than 15 hours in any month. The Company shall reimburse Executive for all travel and other expenses which he incurs in connection with such advisory services. (e) At the option of the Board of Directors of the Company, payment of the Annual Contract Pension shall cease and the right of Executive and Executive's Successor to all future such payments shall be forfeited if Executive shall, without the written consent of the chief executive officer of the Company, render services to any corporation or other entity engaged in any activity, or himself engage in any activity, which is competitive to any material extent with the business in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall be engaged at the end of the Term of Employment and in which the Company or any such subsidiary shall still be engaged at the date such services or activity is rendered or engaged in by Executive, provided, however, that if the Company terminates under ss.1 following a Change in Control (as defined in the Bonus Plan), the provisions of this ss.6(e) shall be deemed deleted from this Agreement and shall have no force or effect. (f) Beginning at the end of the Term of Employment, the Company at its sole expense shall provide, in accordance with the provisions set forth below, medical coverage for Executive and his Dependents (as hereinafter defined) during his lifetime and following Executive's death, for Executive's surviving Dependents during their respective lifetimes. As used herein, the term "Dependents" shall mean Executive's spouse and each child or stepchild of Executive. -10-
(i) Subject to (ii) and (iii) below, the medical coverage to be provided hereunder shall consist of the same coverages and benefits as provided under the terms of the hospitalization, medical and dental plans maintained by the Company for its U.S. employees who are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement (the "Company's Medical Plans"), as in effect immediately prior to the end of the Term of Employment. (ii) If prior to the end of the Term of Employment any of the Company's Medical Plans is amended following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in the Bonus Plan) to eliminate any coverage or benefit previously provided under such Plan, or to make any coverage or benefit so provided available on terms less favorable to Executive than those in effect prior to such amendment, such coverage or benefit, as provided under the terms of the Plan in effect immediately prior to such amendment, shall be included in the medical coverage to be provided under this Section 6 (f). (iii) If at any time after the end of the Term of Employment any of the Company's Medical Plans is amended to add any coverage or benefit that was not provided under such Plan immediately prior to the end of the Term of Employment, or to provide any coverage or benefit on terms more favorable than those applicable to Executive, or to any of his surviving Dependents, under the Plan as in effect immediately prior to the end of the Term of Employment, the coverage or benefit so added or so modified shall be included in the medical coverage to be provided under this Section 6 (f), commencing as of the effective date of such amendment. As soon as practicable after any amendment is made to any of the Company's Medical Plans after the end of the Term of Employment, the Company shall furnish to Executive (or, in the case of any such amendment that is made after the Executive's death, to each of his surviving Dependents), a revised Summary Plan Description for such Plan and copies of any other written notices that the Company furnishes to its employees explaining the changes made to the Plan pursuant to such amendment. -11-
(iv) The coverages and benefits to be provided hereunder shall be provided upon the same terms and conditions (including required deductibles, co-payments and annual and lifetime maximum benefits) as would have applied to Executive, or to his surviving Dependents, if such coverages and benefits had been provided under the Company's Medical Plans as in effect on the date or dates applicable hereunder, other than any provision therein requiring an employee or his spouse or other dependents to make payments to the Company, by payroll deduction or otherwise, towards the cost of their coverage under such Plan. (v) At the Company's option, the coverages and benefits to be provided hereunder may be provided through insurance, or by the Company directly paying, or reimbursing Executive or any of his Dependents for his or her payment of, expenses covered under this Section 6 (f). (vi) The Company's obligation to provide any coverage or benefit otherwise required under this Section 6(f) shall be reduced to the extent that such coverage or benefit has been or will be provided under (A) any policy of insurance maintained by Executive or any of his Dependents, (B) any plan, program or insurance policy maintained by a subsequent employer of Executive or by an employer of any of Executive's Dependents, or (C) the provisions of any federal or state law. However, neither Executive nor any of his Dependents shall be required to obtain any hospitalization, medical or dental coverage from any source referred to in clause (A), (B) or (C) of the preceding sentence as a condition for eligibility for the medical coverage to be provided under this Section 6(f). -12-
(vii) Notwithstanding any other provision herein, medical coverage provided pursuant to this Section 6 (f) for any Dependent who is a child of Executive shall cease (A) as of the end of the calendar year in which such child attains age 18, or (B), if such child is a "student", as defined in section 151(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or any successor provision thereto) during the calendar year referred to in clause (A), as of the end of the earlier of (x) the calendar year in which such child attains age 23, or (y) the calendar year in which such child ceases to be a "student", as so defined. ss.7. Code Sections 409A and 4999. (a) Delay in Payment. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, any payment otherwise required to be made hereunder to Executive at any date as a result of the termination of the Term of Employment shall be delayed for such period of time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code. On the earliest date on which such payments can be made without violating the requirements of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code (the "Delayed Payment Date"), there shall be paid to Executive (or if Executive has died, to "Executive's Successor") (as the quoted term is defined in Section 6 (a) hereof), in a single cash lump sum, an amount equal to the aggregate amount of all payments delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence, plus interest thereon at the Delayed Payment Interest Rate (as defined below) computed from the date on which each such delayed payment otherwise would have been made to Executive until the Delayed Payment Date. For purposes of the foregoing, the "Delayed Payment Interest Rate" shall mean the national average annual rate of interest payable on jumbo six month bank certificates of deposit, as quoted in the business section of the most recently published Sunday edition of the New York Times preceding the date on which the Term of Employment ends. -13-
(b) Section 4999 Excise Tax. If any payments to Executive, whether under this Agreement or otherwise, would be subject to excise tax under section 4999 of the Code, then payments hereunder shall be reduced or deferred to the extent required (and only to the extent required) to avoid the application of section 4999; provided, however, that no such reduction or deferral shall be made unless as a result thereof Executive's after-tax economic position (taking into account not only payments under this Agreement and the taxes thereon, but also the taxes that would otherwise be imposed on any payments to which Executive is otherwise entitled) would be improved. In making the determination whether Executive's after-tax economic position would be so improved, the judgment of a certified public accountant or attorney chosen by Executive shall be final. In the event of a reduction or deferral of payments pursuant to this paragraph, Executive shall be entitled to specify which payments shall be reduced or deferred. ss.8. Acceleration of Stock Options. On the date which is 30 days before the date on which the Term of Employment will end by reason of a notice of termination given by either party hereto under any of the provisions hereof, all employee stock options held by Executive shall become exercisable in full (i.e., to the extent that any such option or portion thereof is not yet exercisable, the right to exercise the same in full shall be accelerated) and such option shall thereafter be fully vested and exercisable in full (to the extent not theretofore exercised) until it expires by its terms. ss.9. Covenant Not to Compete. For a period of 18 months after the end of the Term of Employment if the Term of Employment is terminated by notice to the Company given by Executive under ss.1, ss.2 or ss.4 hereof, or for a period of 12 months after the end of the Term of Employment if the Term of Employment is terminated by notice to Executive given by the Company under ss.1 or ss.4 hereof or terminates under ss.4 by reason of Executive's attaining the age of 65, Executive shall not render services to any corporation or other entity engaged in any activity, or himself engage directly or indirectly in any activity, which is competitive to any material extent with the business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, provided, however, that if the Company terminates under ss.1 following a Change in Control (as defined in the Bonus Plan), the foregoing covenant not to compete shall not apply. ss.10. Company's Right to Injunctive Relief. -14-
Executive acknowledges that his services to the Company are of a unique character, which gives them a peculiar value to the Company, the loss of which cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated in damages in an action at law, and that therefore, in addition to any other remedy which the Company may have at law or in equity, the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief for a breach of this Agreement by Executive. ss.11. Inventions and Patents. All inventions, ideas, concepts, processes, discoveries, improvements and trademarks (hereinafter collectively referred to as intangible rights), whether patentable or registrable or not, which are conceived, made, invented or suggested either by Executive alone or by Executive in collaboration with others during the Term of Employment, and whether or not during regular working hours, shall be disclosed to the Company and shall be the sole and exclusive property of the Company. If the Company deems that any of such intangible rights are patentable or otherwise registrable under any federal, state or foreign law, Executive, at the expense of the Company, shall execute all documents and do all things necessary or proper to obtain patents and/or registrations and to vest the Company with full title thereto. ss.12. Trade Secrets and Confidential Information. Executive shall not, either directly or indirectly, except as required in the course of his employment by the Company, disclose or use at any time, whether during or subsequent to the Term of Employment, any information of a proprietary nature owned by the Company, including but not limited to records, data, formulae, documents, specifications, inventions, processes, methods and intangible rights which are acquired by him in the performance of his duties for the Company and which are of a confidential information or trade-secret nature. All records, files, drawings, documents, equipment and the like, relating to the Company's business, which Executive shall prepare, use, construct or observe, shall be and remain the Company's sole property. Upon the termination of his employment or at any time prior thereto upon request by the Company, Executive shall return to the possession of the Company any materials or copies thereof involving any confidential information or trade secrets and shall not take any material or copies thereof from the possession of the Company. -15-
ss.13. Mergers and Consolidations; Assignability. In the event that the Company, or any entity resulting from any merger or consolidation referred to in this ss.13 or which shall be a purchaser or transferee so referred to, shall at any time be merged or consolidated into or with any other entity or entities, or in the event that substantially all of the assets of the Company or any such entity shall be sold or otherwise transferred to another entity, the provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the continuing entity in or the entity resulting from such merger or consolidation or the entity to which such assets shall be sold or transferred. Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence of this ss.13, this Agreement shall not be assignable by the Company or by any entity referred to in such immediately preceding sentence. This Agreement shall not be assignable by Executive, but in the event of his death it shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of his legal representatives to the extent required to effectuate the terms hereof. ss.14. Captions. The captions in this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof, are merely for the purpose of reference and shall have no force or effect for any purpose whatsoever, including the construction of the provisions of this Agreement, and if any caption is inconsistent with any provisions of this Agreement, said provisions shall govern. ss.15. Choice of Law. This Agreement is made in, and shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of, the State of New York. ss.16. Entire Contract. This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties on the subject matter hereof except that the rights of the Company hereunder shall be deemed to be in addition to and not in substitution for its rights under the Company's standard printed form of "Employee's Secrecy and Invention Agreement" or "Employee Agreement" if heretofore or hereafter entered into between the parties hereto so that the making of this Agreement shall not be construed as depriving the Company of any of its rights or remedies under any such Secrecy and Invention Agreement or Employee Agreement. This Agreement may not be changed orally, but only by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any waiver, change, modification, extension or discharge is sought. -16-
ss.17. Notices. All notices given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be sent by registered or certified mail or overnight delivery service such as Federal Express or delivered by hand, and, if intended for the Company, shall be addressed to it (if sent by mail or overnight delivery service) or delivered to it (if delivered by hand) at its principal office for the attention of the Secretary of the Company, or at such other address and for the attention of such other person of which the Company shall have given notice to Executive in the manner herein provided, and, if intended for Executive, shall be delivered to him personally or shall be addressed to him (if sent by mail or overnight delivery service) at his most recent residence address shown in the Company's employment records or at such other address or to such designee of which Executive shall have given notice to the Company in the manner herein provided. Each such notice shall be deemed to be given on the date on which it is mailed or received by the overnight delivery service or, if delivered personally, on the date so delivered. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amended and Restated Employment Agreement as of the day and year first above written. PALL CORPORATION By: ________________________________ Marcus Wilson, President EXECUTIVE ____________________________________ Eric Krasnoff -17-
[ATTACHMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT DATED JULY 20, 2005 BETWEEN PALL CORPORATION AND ERIC KRASNOFF] PALL CORPORATION 2004 EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN _____ 1. PURPOSE This document sets forth the Pall Corporation 2004 Executive Incentive Bonus Plan as adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on October 16, 2003 effective for the fiscal year beginning August 3, 2003 and subsequent fiscal years, approved by shareholders at the Annual Meeting on November 19, 2003 and amended by the Board of Directors, acting by its Compensation Committee, on July 19, 2005. The purpose of the Plan is to encourage greater focus on performance among the key executives of the Corporation by relating a significant portion of their total compensation to the achievement of annual financial objectives. 2. CERTAIN DEFINITIONS As used herein with initial capital letters, the following terms shall have the following meanings: "AVERAGE EQUITY" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the average of stockholders' equity as shown on the fiscal year-end consolidated balance sheet of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as of the end of such Fiscal Year and as of the end of the immediately preceding Fiscal Year except that the amounts shown on said balance sheets as "Accumulated other comprehensive" income or loss, as the case may be, shall be disregarded. "BASE SALARY" shall mean, with respect to any Executive and for any Fiscal Year, the annual rate of base salary in effect for the Executive as of the first day of such year or, if later, as of the first day of the Executive's Term of Employment, as determined under the Executive's Employment Agreement. "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation. "BONUS" shall mean the bonus payable to an Executive under this Plan for any Fiscal Year. "CEO" shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. "CHANGE IN CONTROL" means the occurrence of any of the following:
(a) the "Distribution Date" as defined in Section 3 of the Rights Agreement dated as of November 17, 1989 between the Corporation and United States Trust Company of New York as Rights Agent, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated April 20, 1999, and as the same may have been further amended or extended to the time in question or in any successor agreement (the "Rights Agreement"); or (b) any event described in Section 11(a)(ii)(B) of the Rights Agreement; or (c) any event described in Section 13 of the Rights Agreement; or (d) the date on which the number of duly elected and qualified directors of the Corporation who were not either elected by the Board of Directors or nominated by the Board of Directors or its Nominating Committee for election by the shareholders shall equal or exceed one-third of the total number of directors of the Corporation as fixed by its by-laws; provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred, and no rights arising upon a Change in Control as provided in Section 6 shall exist, to the extent that the Board of Directors so determines by resolution adopted prior to the Change in Control. "CODE" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "COMMITTEE" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. "CORPORATION" shall mean Pall Corporation. "COVERED EXECUTIVE" shall mean, with respect to any Fiscal Year, each individual who is a "Covered Employee" of the Corporation for such year for the purpose of section 162(m) of the Code. "EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT" shall mean, with respect to any executive employee of the Corporation, an employment agreement between the Corporation and such employee which provides that the employee shall be eligible to receive annual bonuses under this Plan. "EXECUTIVE" shall mean an executive employee of the Corporation with whom the Corporation has entered into an Employment Agreement. "FISCAL YEAR" shall mean the fiscal year of the Corporation ending on July 31, 2004, and each subsequent fiscal year of the Corporation. "MAXIMUM R.O.E. TARGET" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the Return on Equity that must be achieved or exceeded in order for the Performance Percentage for the year to equal 100%, as determined by the Committee prior to the first day of such year or within such period of time thereafter as may be permitted under the regulations issued under ss.162(m) of the Code. "MINIMUM R.O.E. TARGET" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the Return on Equity that must be exceeded in order for any Bonus to be paid to any Executive for the year, as determined by the Committee prior to the first day of such year or within such period of time thereafter as may be permitted under the regulations issued under ss.162(m) of the Code. -2-
"NET EARNINGS" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the after-tax consolidated net earnings of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as certified by the Corporation's independent accountants for inclusion in the annual report to shareholders ("Annual Report"), adjusted so as to eliminate the effects of any decreases in or charges to earnings for (a) the effect of foreign currency exchange rates, (b) any acquisitions, divestitures, discontinuance of business operations, restructuring or any other special charges, (c) the cumulative effect of any accounting changes, and (d) any "extraordinary items" as determined under generally accepted accounting principles, to the extent such decreases or charges referred to in clauses (a) through (d) are separately disclosed in the Corporation's Annual Report for the year. "PLAN" shall mean the Pall Corporation Executive Incentive Bonus Plan, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time. "RETURN ON EQUITY" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, the percentage determined by dividing the Net Earnings for the year by the Average Equity for the year. "TARGET BONUS PERCENTAGE" shall mean, with respect to any Executive, the target bonus percentage specified for such Executive in his or her Employment Agreement. 3. DETERMINATION OF BONUS AMOUNTS For each Fiscal Year falling in whole or in part within an Executive's Term of Employment, as defined in his or her Employment Agreement, the Executive shall be entitled to receive a Bonus in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3, subject, however, to the provisions of Section 4. (a) (a) The amount of the Bonus payable to an Executive for each such Fiscal Year shall be equal to (i) the Target Bonus Percentage of the Executive's Base Salary for such year, multiplied by (ii) the Performance Percentage for such year, as determined under (b) below. (b) The Performance Percentage for any Fiscal Year shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions: (i) If the Return on Equity equals or exceeds the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be 100%. (ii) If the Return on Equity equals or is less than the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be zero, and no Bonus shall be payable under the Plan for such year to any Executive. -3-
(iii) Except as other provided in (iv) below, if the Return on Equity is less than the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year but exceeds the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be equal to the quotient resulting from dividing (A) the excess of the Return on Equity for the year over the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year, by (B) the excess of the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year over the Minimum R.O.E. Target for the year. (iv) At the time it establishes the Minimum and Maximum R.O.E. Targets for any Fiscal Year beginning on or after August 3, 2003, the Committee may also (A) establish one or more R.O.E. targets (each, an "Intermediate R.O.E. Target") for such year that are greater than the Minimum R.O.E. Target but less than the Maximum R.O.E. Target for such year, and (B) determine the Performance Percentage that will apply if the Return on Equity exceeds the Minimum R.O.E. Target, or equals any of the Intermediate R.O.E. Targets established for such year. If one or more Intermediate R.O.E. Targets are established for any such Fiscal Year and the Return on Equity for such year exceeds the Minimum R.O.E Target or any Intermediate R.O.E Target established for the year (the "Achieved Target") but is less than the next highest Intermediate R.O.E Target established for the year (the "Next Highest Target"), the Performance Percentage for such year shall be equal to the Performance Percentage that would apply if the Return on Equity were equal to the Achieved Target, plus the percentage resulting from multiplying (1) the excess of the Performance Percentage that would apply if the Return on Equity were equal to the Next Highest Target, over the Performance Percentage that would apply if the Return on Equity were equal to the Achieved Target, by (2) the percentage resulting from dividing (x) the excess of the Return on Equity over the Achieved Target, by (y) the excess of the Next Highest Target over the Achieved Target. If the Return on Equity for the year exceeds the highest Intermediate R.O.E. Target for the year but is less than the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year, the Performance Percentage for the year shall be determined in the manner described in the preceding sentence but for this purpose, the Maximum R.O.E. Target for the year shall be treated as the Next Highest Target for the year. (c) If an Executive's Term of Employment commences after the start of a Fiscal Year, or ends prior to the close of a Fiscal Year, the amount of the Bonus payable to the Executive for the Fiscal Year in which the Executive's Term of Employment commences, or for the Fiscal Year in which the Executive's Term of Employment ends, as determined in accordance with the other applicable provisions of the Plan, shall be prorated on the basis of the number of days of such Fiscal Year that fall within the Executive's Term of Employment; provided, however, that (i) if an Executive's Term of Employment ends within 5 days prior to the close of a Fiscal Year, there shall be no proration and the Executive shall be entitled to receive the entire amount of the Bonus payable to the Executive for such year, as determined in accordance with such other provisions, and (ii) if the Executive's Term of Employment ends within 5 days following the start of a Fiscal Year, the Executive shall not be entitled to receive any Bonus with respect to such Fiscal Year. -4-
4. ADJUSTMENT OF AND LIMITATION ON BONUS AMOUNTS The amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to an Executive for any Fiscal Year in accordance with Section 3 shall be subject to the following adjustments and limitation: (a) The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to any Executive in accordance with Section 3, (i) to reflect any decreases in or charges to earnings that were not taken into account in determining Net Earnings for the year pursuant to clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) contained in the definition of such term in Section 2, (ii) to reflect any credits to earnings for extraordinary items of income or gain that were taken into account in determining Net Earnings for the year, (iii) to reflect the Committee's evaluation of the Executive's individual performance, or (iv) to reflect any other events, circumstances or factors which the Committee believes to be appropriate in determining the amount of the Bonus to be paid to the Executive for the year. (b) The Committee may, in its discretion, increase the amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to any Executive who is not a Covered Executive, as determined under Section 3, to reflect the Committee's evaluation of the Executive's individual performance, or to reflect such other circumstances or factors as the Committee believes to be appropriate in determining the amount of the Bonus to be paid to the Executive for the year. The Committee shall not have any discretion to increase the amount of the Bonus payable to any Covered Executive for the year, as determined under Section 3. (c) Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, the amount of the Bonus otherwise payable to any Executive for any Fiscal Year beginning on or after August 3, 2003, shall not exceed the lesser of (i) $2.0 million and (ii) 150% of the Executive's Base Salary for such Fiscal Year. 5. PAYMENT OF BONUSES The Bonus payable to an Executive for any Fiscal Year shall be paid in accordance with the following provisions: (a) Except as otherwise provided in (b) or (c) below, (i) if the Executive is not a Covered Executive for such year, not less than 50% of the estimated amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the Executive on such date in September next following the close of such year as the Committee in its discretion shall determine (the first "Bonus Payment Date"), and any remaining amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the Executive by no later than January 15 next following the close of such year; -5-
(ii) if the Executive is a Covered Executive for such year, not less than 50% of the amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the Executive as soon as practicable after the Committee has certified in writing that all conditions for the payment of such Bonus to the Executive for such year have been satisfied, and any remaining amount of the Executive's Bonus shall be paid to the Executive by no later than January 15 next following the close of such year; (iii) each amount payable to an Executive under (i) and (ii) above, reduced by the amount of all federal, state and local taxes required by law to be withheld therefrom, shall be paid to the Executive in the form of a single lump sum cash payment. (b) To the extent that an Executive has elected under the applicable provisions of the Pall Corporation Management Stock Purchase Plan (the "MSPP") to have any part of the Bonus payable to the Executive for any Fiscal Year paid in the form of Restricted Units to be credited to the Executive's account under the MSPP, no cash payments shall be made to the Executive pursuant to (a) above with respect to the part of the Executive Bonus that is subject to such election, and the obligation of the Corporation under this Plan with respect to payment of such part of the Executive's Bonus shall be fully discharged upon the crediting of Restricted Units to the Executive's account under the MSPP in accordance with the applicable provisions of such Plan. (c) To the extent that an Executive has elected under the applicable provisions of the Pall Corporation Profit-Sharing Plan (the "Profit-Sharing Plan") to have any part of the Bonus payable to the Executive for any Fiscal Year reduced, and to have an amount equal to such part of the Executive's Bonus contributed to the Profit-Sharing Plan as a 401(k) Contribution on the Executive's behalf, an amount equal to such part of the Executive's Bonus shall be contributed to the Profit-Sharing Plan on behalf of the Executive, and thereupon, the obligation of the Corporation under this Plan with respect to payment of such part of the Executive's Bonus shall be fully discharged. However, no such contribution shall be made to the extent it would cause any limitation applicable under the 401(k) Plan to be exceeded. 6. CHANGE IN CONTROL Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan to the contrary (but subject to the "provided, however" clause contained in the definition of "Change in Control" in Section 2), upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the following provisions shall apply: (a) The amount of the Bonus payable to any Executive for the Fiscal Year in which a Change in Control occurs shall be at least equal to the Target Bonus Percentage of the Executive's Base Salary for such year or, in the case of any Executive whose Term of Employment commences after the start of such year or ends prior to the close of such year, a pro rata portion thereof determined on the basis of the number of days of such Fiscal Year that fall within the Executive's Term of Employment. -6-
(b) Each Executive whose Term of Employment has not ended prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be entitled to receive a Bonus for each Contract Year (as defined in the Executive's Employment Agreement) that falls in whole or in part within the Executive's Term of Employment and that ends after the Fiscal Year in which the Change in Control occurs. The amount of the Bonus payable to the Executive for each such Contract Year shall be at least equal to the Target Bonus Percentage of the Executive's Base Salary for such Contract Year or, in the case of any Executive whose Term of Employment ends after the start of such Contract Year but prior to the close of such year, a pro rata portion thereof determined on the basis of the number of days of such Contract Year that fall within the Executive's Term of Employment. (c) The entire amount of the Bonus payable to an Executive for any Fiscal Year or Contract Year pursuant to (a) or (b) above, reduced by the amount of all federal, state and local taxes required to be withheld therefrom, shall be paid to the Executive in a single cash lump sum as soon as practicable after the close of such Fiscal Year or Contract Year, but in no event later than 2 1/2 months after the close of such Fiscal Year or Contract Year. 7. RIGHTS OF EXECUTIVES An Executive's rights and interests under the Plan shall be subject to the following provisions: (a) An Executive's rights to payments under the Plan shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by creditors of the Executive. (b) Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any Executive any right to be retained in the employment of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. 8. ADMINISTRATION The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. The Committee may act at a meeting, including a telephone meeting, by action of a majority of the members present, or without a meeting by unanimous written consent. In addition to the responsibilities and powers assigned to the Committee elsewhere in the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority, in its discretion, to establish from time to time guidelines or regulations for the administration of the Plan, interpret the Plan, and make all determinations considered necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may delegate any ministerial or nondiscretionary function pertaining to the administration of the Plan to any one or more officers of the Corporation. All decisions, actions or interpretations of the Committee under the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any determination made by the Committee after the occurrence of a Change in Control that denies in whole or in part any claim made by any individual for benefits under the Plan shall be subject to judicial review, under a "de novo", rather than a deferential standard. -7-
9. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION The Board of Directors may, (acting by the Committee if the by-laws of the Corporation so provide), with prospective or retroactive effect, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time; provided, however, that (a) no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall adversely affect the rights of any Executive with respect to any Bonus that has become payable to the Executive under the Plan, without his or her written consent, and (b) following a Change in Control, no amendment to Section 6, and no termination of the Plan, shall be effective if such amendment or termination adversely affects the rights of any Executive under the Plan. 10. SUCCESSOR CORPORATION The obligations of the Corporation under the Plan shall be binding upon any successor corporation or organization resulting from the merger, consolidation or other reorganization of the Corporation, or upon any successor corporation or organization succeeding to substantially all of the assets and business of the Corporation. The Corporation agrees that it will make appropriate provision for the preservation of Executives' rights under the Plan in any agreement or plan which it may enter into or adopt to effect any such merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of assets. 11. GOVERNING LAW The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 12. EFFECTIVE DATE The Plan was adopted by the Committee, on October 16, 2003 effective for the Fiscal Year beginning August 3, 2003, subject, however, to approval by the shareholders of the Corporation at the 2003 annual meeting of the shareholders, including any adjournment thereof. -8-


