FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20061208160805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
       Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On December 4, 2006, Pall Corporation (the "Registrant") released its results of operations for its first quarter ended October 31, 2006. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
     The information contained in this Item 2.02 and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant unless the registrant specifically states that the information is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
     
Back to Contents
    

Exhibit 99
Pall Corporation Reports Strong First Quarter Sales and Operating Profit Growth
EAST HILLS, N.Y. Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL  News) today reported sales and earnings results for the first quarter ended October 31, 2006.
First Quarter Results
Sales for the quarter were $499.3 million, up 16% compared with the same quarter last year. Net earnings were $24.4 million, or $0.20 per share. Earnings on a pro forma basis, excluding charges principally related to the Company's cost reduction initiatives, were $0.29 per share as compared to $0.20 per share in the same quarter last year. Foreign currency translation increased sales by 2% with minimal impact on earnings.
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman and CEO, said, "Pall's Total Fluid Management(sm) approach to the market continues to drive sales in the Life Sciences and Industrial segments. Our base consumables and systems businesses are both on track. Orders remained strong and we have again entered the next quarter with a record backlog.
The realignment of Pall Corporation into two integrated businesses, Industrial and Life Sciences, is now complete. Our new financial presentation format reflects this and provides greater visibility into Pall for investors."
Mr. Krasnoff added, "We are investing in sales and marketing, customer support and product development programs. At the same time we are working assiduously to reduce cost. Selling, general and administrative expenses continued to decrease as a percentage of sales, reaching 31.5% in the quarter. Gross margins present a tougher challenge. Cost of Sales is the major target of our cost reduction programs and facilities rationalization initiative. These activities are proceeding to plan and we are confident of success."
Consolidated  First Quarter Financial Summary
1
Mr. Krasnoff continued, "BioPharmaceuticals sales increased 18.6% with 16% growth in consumables. This reflects a high level of drug production, along with investment in new capacity by the biotechnology sector. Medical sales increased 7.4%, with growth in the Blood Filtration and Hospital portions of the business in the Western Hemisphere and Europe.
Gross margin improved to 49.3% compared with 48.8% last year. Selling, general and administrative expenses improved to 30.3%. Operating profit increased 29.3% and operating margin improved to 15.1% from 13.4% last year."
Industrial  First Quarter Summary
"Pall Industrial produced strong top-line sales growth," Mr. Krasnoff commented. "Within the segment, General Industrial sales grew 11.4% driven by strong system sales growth into energy related markets. Microelectronics sales were up 31.7%. New product sales into the consumer electronics market are making an impact. Aerospace and Transportation sales increased 7.4% driven by Military Aerospace sales in the Western Hemisphere.
Gross margins were reduced due to product mix, including the very strong sales performance of the systems business. Selling, general and administrative expenses improved by 3.9% as a percentage of sales to 29.1% reflecting top line leverage and cost reduction initiatives. Operating profit increased 24.3% and operating margin improved to 10.9% from 10.2% last year."
Conference Calls
Tomorrow, December 5, 2006, at 8:30 am ET, Pall Corporation will host its quarterly earnings conference call.
In addition, a conference call providing a detailed discussion of changes to the Company's financial reporting structure will follow the earnings call, at 11:00 am ET.
The calls will be webcast and individuals can access these webcasts from the home page of the Company's website, at . Listening to the webcasts requires speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player software. The webcast of the quarterly earnings call will be archived for 30 days and the webcast of the call discussing the changes to the Company's financial reporting structure will be archived for 90 days.
www.pall.com/investor
2
About Pall Corporation:
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separation and purification. Pall is organized into two businesses: Life Sciences and Industrial. These businesses provide leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, energy, electronics, municipal and industrial water purification, aerospace, transportation and broad industrial markets. Total revenues for fiscal year 2006 were $2.0 billion. The Company headquarters is in East Hills, New York with extensive operations throughout the world. For more information visit Pall at .
www.pall.com
Forward Looking Statements:
Results for first quarter ended October 31, 2006 are preliminary until the Company's Form 10-Q is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, events or developments are forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: changes in product mix and product pricing particularly as we expand our systems business in which we experience significantly longer sales cycles and less predictable revenue with no certainty of future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services; increases in costs of manufacturing and operating costs including energy and raw materials; the Company's ability to achieve the savings anticipated from cost reduction and margin improvement initiatives including the timing of completion of the facilities rationalization initiative; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; regulatory approval and market acceptance of new technologies; changes in business relationships with key customers and suppliers including delays or cancellations in shipments; success in enforcing patents and protecting proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; successful completion or integration of acquisitions; domestic and international competition in the Company's global markets; and global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them.
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess Pall's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of Pall's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing Pall's financial position and results of operations. Pall has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of ongoing operations.
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Pall Corporation Lisa McDermott, 516-801-9808
Contact:
10


