FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20060307095321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On March 1, 2006, Pall Corporation (the Registrant) released its results of operations for its fiscal second quarter ended January 31, 2006. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant unless the registrant specifically states that the information is to be considered filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
East Hills, NY (March 1, 2006)  Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) today reported sales and earnings results for the second quarter and six months ended January 31, 2006.
Reported sales for the quarter increased 2% to $478.4 million and earnings were $32.4 million and 26 cents per share as compared to $32 million and 26 cents per share last year. Local currency sales increased a strong 7% with growth in all reporting segments. Foreign currency translation reduced sales by 5% and earnings per share by 1 cent in the quarter.
On a pro forma basis, earnings were $35 million or 28 cents per share excluding restructuring and other charges, net of related tax effect, as compared to $35.8 million or 29 cents per share last year. The impact of stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment", reduced earnings per share in the quarter by 2 cents.
Reported sales for the six months increased 3% to $909.6 million and earnings were $57.5 million or 46 cents per share as compared to $53.7 million and 43 cents per share last year. Local currency sales for the half year were up 6%. The effect of foreign currency translation reduced sales by 3% and earnings per share by 1 cent.
On a pro forma basis, earnings were $60.3 million or 48 cents per share excluding restructuring and other charges, net of related tax effect, as compared to $62.2 million or 50 cents per share last year. The impact of stock compensation and the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment", reduced earnings per share in the six months by 4 cents.
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman and CEO, said, "In the quarter and six months, we saw local currency sales growth across all of our segments and in all geographies. Pall's top line growth rate has been progressing steadily and has more than doubled in the past three years. Orders have been strong all of this year, increasing 17% in the second quarter and backlog is at an all time high.
We continue to focus on costs. SG&A improved 30 basis points in the quarter. Excluding the impact of stock compensation expense, SG&A would have improved 70 basis points in the quarter. This reflects the effectiveness of our CoRe cost reduction programs and the integration of our business structure along broad business lines beginning in late 2004. Gross margin should improve even as systems shipments increase in the second half of this year. We are also seeing the benefits of our focus on working capital in the five day reduction in DSO and a reduction in net debt of $52 million."
 
Q2 Highlights Industrial 
General Industrial sales increased 5% in the quarter. Orders were up a healthy 15% and backlog has increased by $47.5 million. Operating profit margin declined to 8.4% compared with 9.3% last year. Operating profit dollars declined to $15.3 million reflecting the decline in margin partly offset by the impact of higher sales. Within General Industrial:
Microelectronics sales were up 17%, benefiting from new fab construction and continuing strength in the display and storage market. Operating profit margin improved to 22.8% and operating profit dollars increased 40% to $14.1 million.
Aerospace sales increased 12% primarily driven by incremental, but discounted, sales attributable to our expanded agreement/relationship with Satair and OEM sales. The overall Aerospace operating margin was 12.5% compared with 17.4% last year, while operating profit dollars were $5.7 million.
Q2 Highlights Life Sciences 
BioPharmaceuticals sales increased 10% driven by strong growth in consumables in all geographies. The growth in consumables was across most market sectors, with products for biotechnology, vaccine and plasma production all strong. Operating profit margin improved to 26.2% and operating profit dollars increased 13% to $21.1 million.
Medical segment sales were up 1%. Sales in the BioSciences submarket increased 4% driven by double-digit growth in the Laboratory portion of the business. Operating profit margin declined to 10.9% reflecting reduced pricing related to new long-term contracts with major blood bank customers and the integration of certain Corporate functions into the business. Operating profit dollars were $11.7 million.
Q2 Highlights by Geography (with sales growth in local currency) 
Sales in Asia increased 8% driven by growth in all segments with the exception of General Industrial. Operating profit improved to 16%, while operating profit dollars increased by $1.8 million, or 11%.
In Europe, sales increased 8% reflecting growth in all segments, with particularly strong growth in Aerospace and Microelectronics. Operating profit was 8.6% of sales as compared to 9.2% last year partly attributable to the impact of stock compensation. On a sequential quarter basis, operating profit margin improved 210 basis points. Operating profit dollars were $19.1 million.
Western Hemisphere sales increased 6% with all segments up except Medical. Operating profit declined to 11.2% reflecting reduced pricing in the Blood Filtration business as well as the impact of stock compensation and the integration of certain Corporate functions into the business. Operating profit dollars were $26.6 million.
Of particular note is the comprehensive strength in orders growth with the Western Hemisphere up 25%, Europe 10% and Asia 17%.
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "Overall, we are pleased with the progress to date. Despite the strengthened dollar, Pall is well on track and we are comfortable reiterating the earnings guidance issued at the beginning of our fiscal year".
Tomorrow, March 2, 2006, at 8:30 am EST, Pall Corporation will host its quarterly earnings conference call. Individuals can access the webcast from the home page of the Company's website, www.pall.com. Listening to the webcast requires speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player software. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
About Pall Corporation:
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separations and purification. Pall's business is organized around two broad markets: Life Sciences and Industrial. The Company provides leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, semiconductor, water purification, aerospace and broad industrial markets. Total revenues for fiscal 2005 were $1.9 billion. The Company headquarters is in East Hills, New York with extensive operations throughout the world. Visit Pall at .
www.pall.com
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; regulatory approval and market acceptance of new technologies; changes in product mix and product pricing and in interest rates and cost of raw materials; the Company's success in enforcing its patents and protecting its proprietary products and manufacturing techniques and its ability to achieve the savings anticipated from its cost reduction initiatives; global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments; and domestic and international competition in the Company's global markets. Additional information regarding these and other factors is available on the Web at and is included in the Company's reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of such reports can be obtained, without charge, at .
www.pall.com
www.sec.gov
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess Pall's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of Pall's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing Pall's financial position and results of operations. Pall has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of on-going operations.
Back to Contents
PALL CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (Amounts in thousands)
More...
Back to Contents
PALL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (Unaudited) (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Included in cost of sales is a charge of $195 and $506 in the quarter and six months, respectively, related to a purchase accounting adjustment recorded in fiscal year 2005 to step up the value of inventory acquired from BioSepra by $2,431, in accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations". Restructuring and other charges, net, includes severance and other costs of $4,130 (2 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) in the quarter and $5,886 (3 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) in the six months primarily related to our on-going cost reduction programs and business realignment, partly offset by a gain of $394 in the quarter and $2,200 (1 cent per share, after pro forma tax effect) in the six months.
(a)
(b)
Includes expense of $3,019 (2 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) in the quarter and $5,717 (4 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) in the six months related to stock compensation expense and the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment".
(c)
Restructuring and other charges, net, includes $5,438 (3 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) and $8,086 (5 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) in the second quarter and six months, respectively, primarily comprised of severance and other costs related to the restructuring of operations into globally integrated businesses and, in the six months, $2,875 (2 cents per share, after pro forma tax effect) related to the impairment of an investment.
          
More...
PALL CORPORATION MARKET SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION (Unaudited) (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
More...
     
More...
Back to Contents
PALL CORPORATION MARKET SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION (Unaudited) (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
More...
Back to Contents
Contact:
Lisa McDermott
Pall Corporation
Tel: (516) 801-9808
###


