FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20070719163609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
     On July 19, 2007, Pall Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors has commenced an inquiry into the possibly material understatement of U.S. income tax payments and of its provision for income taxes in certain prior periods beginning with its fiscal year ended July 31, 1999. The matter relates to the taxation of certain indebtedness of the Company to a foreign subsidiary of the Company. The Company has notified the Internal Revenue Service and the Securities and Exchange Commission of this matter and of the Audit Committee's pending inquiry. This matter may also have resulted in the Company's failure to comply with certain terms of its debt or other agreements. The Company may need to seek waivers under those agreements, including to effectuate its intention to declare a quarterly dividend for the quarter ending July 31, 2007. The Company intends to report on the Audit Committee's inquiry as soon as practicable
     The Company's press release with respect to this matter is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
     99 Press Release, dated July 19, 2007 (filed pursuant to Item 8.01).
 
     This current report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements. Representatives of the Company may also make forward-looking statements orally from time to time. Statements in this current report on Form 8-K that are not historical facts, including statements about management's beliefs and expectations, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors, including those outlined in our other SEC filings. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
     Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include those we have identified in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but also include the following:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99
July 19, 2007 (EAST HILLS, NY)  Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) today announced that the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors has commenced an inquiry into the possibly material understatement of U.S. income tax payments and of its provision for income taxes in certain prior periods beginning with its fiscal year ended July 31, 1999. The matter relates to the taxation of certain indebtedness of the Company to a foreign subsidiary of the Company. The Company has notified the Internal Revenue Service and the Securities and Exchange Commission of this matter and of the Audit Committee's pending inquiry. This matter may also have resulted in the Company's failure to comply with certain terms of its debt or other agreements. The Company may need to seek waivers under those agreements, including to effectuate its intention to declare a quarterly dividend for the quarter ending July 31, 2007. The Company intends to report on the Audit Committee's inquiry as soon as practicable.
About Pall Corporation
     Pall Corporation is the global leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separation and purification. Pall is organized into two businesses: Life Sciences and Industrial. These businesses provide leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, energy, electronics, municipal and industrial water purification, aerospace, transportation and broad industrial markets. Total revenues for fiscal year 2006 were $2.0 billion. The Company's headquarters are in East Hills, New York, with extensive operations throughout the world. For more information visit Pall at .
http://www.pall.com/
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements
     This release contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include those we have identified in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but also include the following:
Pat Iannucci V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications 516-801-9848 piannucci@pall.com
Contacts
Or
Denise DesChenes / Victoria Hofstad Sard Verbinnen & Co. Telephone: 212-687-8080


