FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20071011162908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     Pursuant to a consent solicitation conducted from September 26, 2007 to October 10, 2007, Pall Corporation (the "Company") entered into a First Supplemental Indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture") with The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee"), and the guarantors named therein, which amends the indenture entered into by and among the Company, the Trustee and the guarantors named therein, dated as of August 1, 2002 (the "Indenture"), providing for the issuance of $280,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Notes"). A copy of the Supplemental Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
     The Supplemental Indenture provides that the failure of the Company to comply with Section 4.03, Section 4.04 or Section 4.05 of the Indenture during the period beginning on October 10, 2007 and ending at 5:30 p.m., New York City time on the Covenant Reversion Date (as defined therein) shall not constitute a default under the Indenture; , that any foregoing failure to comply with Section 4.03, Section 4.04 or Section 4.05 of the Indenture shall constitute a default as of the Covenant Reversion Date if, as of 5:30 p.m., New York City time on the Covenant Reversion Date, the Company shall have failed to (i) comply with Section 4.03 and Section 4.04 of the Indenture or (ii) file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2007 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended October 31, 2007, and other information, documents and reports which the Company may be required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act in a form that causes the Company to be current in all material respects in its filing obligations under the Exchange Act; , that the foregoing shall not relieve the Company from the requirement to comply with Section 4.04 of the Indenture with respect to the fiscal year ended July 31, 2007.
provided, however
provided, further, however
     In consideration for the consents from the holders of the Notes to the proposed amendments and waiver through December 31, 2007, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the consent solicitation statement dated September 26, 2007, the Company has agreed to pay to each record holder $2.50 for each $1,000 in principal amount of the Notes as to which the Company has received consents on or prior to the expiration of the consent solicitation from such record holder. This initial consent payment will be made no later than the third business day following the expiration of the consent solicitation. In the event that the Company becomes current in its SEC reporting obligations after December 31, 2007, it would pay additional consent fees as set forth more fully in the consent solicitation statement.
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
     On October 10, 2007, the Company issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein, announcing that it had successfully obtained the requisite consents with respect to its previously announced solicitation of consents from holders of its outstanding $280 million aggregate principal amount of 6% Senior Notes due 2012 (CUSIP No. 696429AB5).
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
          FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of 5:15 p.m., October 9, 2007 (the ""), by and among PALL CORPORATION, a New York corporation (the ""), the Guarantors named herein, as Guarantors, and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "").
Effective Time
Company
Trustee
          WHEREAS, the Company has duly issued 6% Senior Notes due 2012 in the aggregate principal amount of $280,000,000 (the "") pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of August 1, 2002, by and among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee (the ""), and the Securities are outstanding on the date hereof;
Securities
Indenture
          WHEREAS, the Company has received the written consent from Holders (as defined in the Indenture) of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities to certain amendments to the Indenture upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Company's Consent Solicitation Statement dated September 26, 2007 and the accompanying Consent Form;
          WHEREAS, Section 9.02 of the Indenture provides that, with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities, the Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture supplemental to the Indenture for the purpose of amending, modifying or changing the Indenture;
          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has authorized the execution and delivery of this first supplemental indenture (the ""); and
Supplemental Indenture
          WHEREAS, Section 9.04 of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture becomes effective on receipt by the Trustee of consents from the Holders of the requisite percentage principal amount of the outstanding Securities, and thereafter shall bind every Holder of Notes, with certain exceptions not contemplated herein;
          NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          SECTION 1.01. . This Supplemental Indenture with respect to the Securities is effective as of the Effective Time.
Effective Time
          SECTION 1.02. . For all purposes of the Indenture relating to the Securities amended hereby, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the subject matter or context otherwise requires:
Definitions
     (1) any reference to an "Article" or a "Section" refers to an Article or Section, as the case may be, of this Supplemental Indenture;
     (2) the terms defined in Article 2 have the meanings assigned to them in that Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
 
     (3) each capitalized term that is used in this Supplemental Indenture but not defined herein shall have the meaning specified in the Indenture;
     (4) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP;
     (5) the word "including" (and with correlative meaning "include") means including, without limiting the generality of, any description preceding such term; and
     (6) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
     Section 1.01 of the Indenture with respect to the Securities is hereby amended by inserting the following terms:
     "" means the payments defined as such in the Solicitation Documents.
Additional Consent Fees
     "" means the earlier of 5:30 p.m., New York City time, on (i) the Business Day following the Company's failure to pay the Initial Consent Fee, if due, in accordance with the Solicitation Documents, (ii) the Business Day following the Company's failure to pay any Additional Consent Fee, if due, in accordance with the Solicitation Documents and (iii) March 31, 2008.
Covenant Reversion Date
     "" means the payment defined as such in the Solicitation Documents.
First Additional Consent Fee
     "" means the payment defined as such in the Solicitation Documents.
Initial Consent Fee
     "" means the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2007 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended October 31, 2007, and other information, documents and reports which the Company may be required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
SEC Reports
     "" means the payment defined as such in the Solicitation Documents.
Second Additional Consent Fee
     "" means the Company's Consent Solicitation Statement, dated September 26, 2007, and the related Consent Form, each as amended and supplemented from time to time.
Solicitation Documents
     "" means the payment defined as such in the Solicitation Documents.
Third Additional Consent Fee
 
     Section 6.01 of the Indenture with respect to the Securities is hereby amended by inserting the following sentence after the last paragraph of such Section:
     "Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the failure of the Company to comply with Section 4.03, Section 4.04 or Section 4.05 of this Indenture during the period beginning on October 10, 2007 and ending at 5:30 p.m., New York City time on the Covenant Reversion Date shall not constitute a Default under clause (c) above; , that any foregoing failure to comply with Section 4.03, Section 4.04 or Section 4.05 of this Indenture shall constitute a Default as of the Covenant Reversion Date if, as of 5:30 p.m., New York City time on the Covenant Reversion Date, the Company shall have failed to (i) comply with Section 4.03 and Section 4.04 of this Indenture or (ii) file the SEC Reports with the SEC in a form that causes the Company to be current in all material respects in its filing obligations under the Exchange Act; , that the foregoing shall not relieve the Company from the requirement to comply with Section 4.04 of this Indenture with respect to the fiscal year ended July 31, 2007."
provided, however
provided, further, however
          SECTION 4.01. . This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Integral Part
          SECTION 4.02. . Except insofar as herein otherwise expressly provided, all the definitions, provisions, terms and conditions of the Indenture shall remain in full force and effect. The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
          SECTION 4.03. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. One signed copy is enough to prove this Supplemental Indenture.
Duplicate Originals
          SECTION 4.04. . This Supplemental Indenture may be signed in one or more counterparts. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterpart Originals
          SECTION 4.05. . THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
Governing Law
          SECTION 4.06. . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
          SECTION 4.07. . In case any provision in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability of Provisions
          SECTION 4.08. . All agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, by the parties hereto shall bind their respective successors and assigns and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
          SECTION 4.09. . Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Registrar, any Paying Agent, and their successors, and the Holders of the Securities, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim hereunder or under the Indenture.
Benefit of Indenture
          SECTION 4.10. . The Trustee accepts the amendments to the Indenture effected by this Supplemental Indenture and agrees to execute the trusts created by the Indenture as hereby amended, but only upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals contained herein, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company and, except as provided in the Indenture, the Trustee shall not be responsible or accountable in any way whatsoever for or with respect to the validity or execution or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or the Solicitation Documents, and the Trustee makes no representation with respect thereto. All rights, protections, privileges, indemnities and benefits granted or afforded to the Trustee under the Indenture shall be deemed incorporated herein by this reference and shall be deemed applicable to all actions taken, suffered or omitted by the Trustee under this Supplemental Indenture.
Acceptance by Trustee
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
East Hills, NY (October 10, 2007)  Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) (the "Company") today announced that it successfully obtained the requisite consents with respect to its previously announced solicitation of consents from holders of its outstanding $280 million aggregate principal amount of 6% Senior Notes due 2012 (CUSIP No. 696429AB5) (the "Notes"). The solicitation had requested the consent of holders of the Notes to amendments of certain reporting requirements in the indenture for the Notes (the "Indenture") in connection with the Company's expected delay in filing its fiscal year 2007 Form 10-K, as previously announced, and the potential delay in its filing of its Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ending October 31, 2007 and other required SEC reports. The solicitation also sought Noteholders' consent to a waiver of any defaults under certain other provisions of the Indenture.
As of 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on October 9, 2007, the Company had received consents from the holders in excess of a majority of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Notes.
The Company and the Bank of New York, as the trustee under the Indenture, have entered into a Supplemental Indenture, along with the guarantors named therein, giving effect to the proposed amendments as of 5:15 p.m. on October 9, 2007. The amendments will be binding on all holders, including non-consenting holders.
Under the terms of the consent solicitation statement, in consideration for the consents from the Noteholders to the proposed amendments and waiver through December 31, 2007, the Company will, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the consent solicitation, pay to each record holder $2.50 for each $1,000 in principal amount of the Notes as to which the Company has received consents on or prior to the expiration of the consent solicitation from such record holder. This initial consent payment will be made no later than the third business day following the expiration of the consent solicitation. The consent solicitation will expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on October 10, 2007.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. served as the solicitation agent for the consent solicitation. Questions regarding the consent solicitation may be directed to J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at (866) 834-4666 (toll-free) or (212) 834-4077 (collect). The information and tabulation agent for the consent solicitation was Global Bondholder Services Corporation.
This announcement is not an offer to purchase, a solicitation of an offer to purchase or a solicitation of consents with respect to the Notes nor is this announcement an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase new securities. The consent solicitation was made solely by means of the consent solicitation statement and the related consent form.
 
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separation and purification. Pall is organized into two businesses: Life Sciences and Industrial. These businesses provide leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, energy, electronics, municipal and industrial water purification, aerospace, transportation and broad industrial markets. Total revenues for fiscal year 2007 were $2.2 billion. The Company's headquarters are in East Hills, New York, with extensive operations throughout the world. For more information, visit Pall at .
About Pall Corporation
http://www.pall.com/
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, events or developments are forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: changes in product mix and product pricing particularly as we expand our systems business in which we experience significantly longer sales cycles and less predictable revenue with no certainty of future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services; increases in costs of manufacturing and operating costs including energy and raw materials; the Company's ability to achieve the savings anticipated from cost reduction and margin improvement initiatives including the timing of completion of the facilities rationalization initiative; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; regulatory approval and market acceptance of new technologies; changes in business relationships with key customers and suppliers including delays or cancellations in shipments; success in enforcing patents and protecting proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; successful completion or integration of acquisitions; domestic and international competition in the Company's global markets; risks arising from potential material weaknesses in our control environment; potential adverse effects to our financial condition, results of operations or prospects as a result of any restatement of prior period financial statements; risks associated with our inability to satisfy covenants under our syndicated credit facility or to obtain waivers of compliance with those covenants or waivers of defaults under our debt and other agreements; potential adverse effects if we are required to recognize adverse tax- or accounting-related developments other than those previously disclosed; risks relating to litigation or regulatory inquiries associated with the restatement of prior period financial statements or other related matters; and global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them.
Forward-Looking Statement
###
Contact
Pall Corporation Patricia Iannucci V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: (516) 801-9848 Email: piannucci@pall.com


