FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20070605172822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 31, 2007, Pall Corporation (the "Registrant") released its results of operations for its third quarter ended April 30, 2007. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
     The information contained in this Item 2.02 and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant unless the registrant specifically states that the information is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99
May 31, 2007 (EAST HILLS, NY)  Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL  News) today reported sales and earnings results for the third quarter ended April 30, 2007.
Sales for the quarter were $559.3 million, up 9.7% compared with the third quarter last year. Diluted earnings per share ("EPS") were $0.54, up from $0.20 a year ago. Net earnings were $67.1 million compared to $25.2 million a year ago. EPS on a pro forma basis were $0.53 per share as compared to $0.37 per share in the same quarter last year.
For the nine months ended April 30, 2007, sales were $1.6 billion, an increase of 13% over the prior year. Net earnings were $147.3 million, or $1.18 per share compared to $0.66 last year. EPS on a pro forma basis, excluding items principally related to the Company's cost reduction initiatives and favorable income tax related adjustments, were $1.24 per share as compared to $0.85 per share in the same period last year.
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman and CEO, stated, "Execution of our strategic plan is driving improvements to the top and bottom line. Pall's Total Fluid Management(sm) value proposition is resonating with customers. The benefits from pricing, productivity improvement and cost reduction initiatives have driven operating profit growth of 35%."
Income Statement Discussion
At constant exchange rates, sales increased $27.0 million, or 5.3%, in the quarter and $130.2 million, or 9.2%, during the nine months. The impact of foreign currency translation increased the reported sales growth to $49.4 million, or 9.7%, for the quarter, and $184.0 million, or 13.0%, for the nine months. The impact of foreign currency translation increased EPS by $0.01 in the quarter and $0.02 for the nine months.
Referring to the quarter, Mr. Krasnoff added, "Pall's broad cost reduction initiatives were a major contributor to the gross margin expansion to 49.5%. Continued improvement in the profitability of systems played a key role. We are on track to achieve further gross margin expansion in fiscal 2008 as our cost reduction and facilities rationalization initiatives continue to gain traction. Selling, general and administrative ("S,G&A") expenses again decreased as a percentage of sales falling to 30%."
 
Life Sciences  Third Quarter Summary
BioPharmaceuticals sales growth was driven by strong consumables sales into the fast-growing biotechnology and vaccine industries. Medical sales increased driven by new blood center customers and new products and applications for the blood business; and growth in Hospital and Laboratory product sales, particularly in the Western Hemisphere.
The Life Sciences operating profit increase primarily reflects gross margin improvement attributable to manufacturing efficiencies and price increases.
Industrial  Third Quarter Summary
General Industrial consumables and systems sales growth in the energy markets was particularly strong. Microelectronics sales continue to benefit from our strategic diversification into the consumer side of the electronics market. Sales in Europe were robust while the Asian market started to slow and the U.S. market was down.
Gross margins improved to 47.1% compared with 44.8% last year driven by sales and manufacturing initiatives, particularly in the systems area. In addition, product mix was favorable to gross margin in the quarter. S,G&A improved by 2% as a percentage of sales
 
to 28.5% reflecting top-line leverage and cost reduction initiatives. Operating profit increased 49% to $54.2 million and operating margin improved to 16.4% from 12.0% last year.
The overall backlog in Industrial was up 26% compared to a year ago. The systems backlog increased 41%, with particularly strong growth in the Municipal Water and Food and Beverage markets.
Outlook
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "For the full fiscal year, we expect Life Sciences to achieve mid single-digit sales growth with Medical on the low end and BioPharmaceuticals around 10%. Pall Industrial should come in near the top end of the 5-7% growth range provided at the beginning of the fiscal year reflecting a slowdown in the Microelectronics market offset by the vitality of systems sales and the Energy marketplace generally. This adds up to low revenue growth in the fourth quarter over a very strong fourth quarter in fiscal 2006.
Our expectations for the full year are for gross margins for the Company to stabilize as the impact of our cost reduction initiatives grow. S,G&A is expected to be about 30% of sales. Our underlying tax rate is expected to be between 24 and 25% excluding the effects of favorable income tax related adjustments.
At mid-year we shared an expectation that earnings would modestly exceed prior guidance. Now with three quarters in the books, we expect to finish the year with strong earnings."
Conference Call
Tomorrow, June 1, 2007, at 8:30 am ET, Pall Corporation will host its quarterly earnings conference call. The call will be webcast and individuals can access it at . Listening to the webcast requires speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player software. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
www.pall.com/investor
About Pall Corporation:
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separation and purification. Pall is organized into two businesses: Life Sciences and Industrial. These businesses provide leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, energy, electronics, municipal and industrial water purification, aerospace, transportation and broad industrial markets. Total revenues for fiscal year 2006 were $2.0 billion. The Company headquarters is in East Hills, New York with extensive operations throughout the world. For more information visit Pall at .
http://www.pall.com/
 
Forward Looking Statements:
Results for third quarter ended April 30, 2007 are preliminary until the Company's Form 10-Q is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, events or developments are forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: changes in product mix and product pricing particularly as we expand our systems business in which we experience significantly longer sales cycles and less predictable revenue with no certainty of future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services; increases in costs of manufacturing and operating costs including energy and raw materials; the Company's ability to achieve the savings anticipated from cost reduction and margin improvement initiatives including the timing of completion of the facilities rationalization initiative; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; regulatory approval and market acceptance of new technologies; changes in business relationships with key customers and suppliers including delays or cancellations in shipments; success in enforcing patents and protecting proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; successful completion or integration of acquisitions; domestic and international competition in the Company's global markets; and global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them.
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess Pall's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of Pall's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing Pall's financial position and results of operations. Pall has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of ongoing operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


