FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20080916172342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On September 15, 2008, Pall Corporation (the "Registrant") released its results of operations for its fourth quarter and year ended July 31, 2008. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99
East Hills, NY (September 15, 2008)  Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) today reported sales and earnings for the fourth quarter and year ended July 31, 2008.
Sales and Earnings Overview
Fourth quarter sales grew to $723.2 million, an 11.9% increase over the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Diluted earnings per share ("EPS") were $0.57, up from $0.13 a year earlier. Net earnings were $69.9 million, compared to $16.8 million. Pro forma EPS, excluding restructuring and other charges, were $0.61 versus last year's $0.46, an increase of 32.6%.
For the full fiscal year ended July 31, 2008, sales were $2.6 billion, a 14.3% increase over fiscal year 2007. Net earnings were $217.3 million compared to $127.5 million. Diluted EPS were $1.76, up from $1.02 and pro forma EPS, excluding restructuring and other charges, were $1.97 versus $1.48, an increase of 33.1%.
Sales in local currency ("LC") increased $30.4 million, or 4.7%, in the quarter, and $162.6 million, or 7.2%, for the year. Foreign currency translation increased reported sales by $46.5 million or 7.2%, for the quarter, and $159.1 million, or 7.1%, for the year. The impact of foreign currency translation added approximately $0.05 to EPS in the quarter and $0.14 for the year.
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman and CEO, stated, "Pall has again successfully executed on its strategic plan. We also exceeded sales and earnings expectations for the year. Sales growth in the quarter was again broad-based and across many markets. Geographically, the highest growth came from Asia. Strong sales throughout the year combined with cost reduction and process improvement initiatives resulted in an operating margin of 15.2%, an 80 basis point improvement."
Industrial  Fourth Quarter Highlights
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands)
 
Starting with this quarter, the General Industrial market has been renamed Energy, Water & Process Technologies ("EWPT"). This new moniker better reflects its market focus. For the quarter, EWPT grew 4% overall, with systems sales down 2.5%. EWPT systems sales grew 16.4% for the full year.
1
 
In Aerospace & Transportation, Commercial Aerospace sales grew 20.1% in the quarter. This was fueled by strong after-market demand and increased sales to regional and business airframe manufacturers. Military sales increased 17.2% led by the U.S.
Microelectronics sales were up 5.6%. Increasing production of solar cells and strength in the display and thin-film rigid disc markets contributed. Western Hemisphere results reflect the semiconductor market cyclical downturn.
Operating profit increased in the quarter 16.1% to $79.2 million while operating profit margin improved to 17.2%.
Life Sciences  Fourth Quarter Highlights
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands)
Within Life Sciences, BioPharmaceuticals sales increased 4.6% in the quarter, and 10.8% for the full year. Pall continues to win business for new drugs and factories as evidenced by the 41.1% increase in systems sales in the year. The Company is also benefitting from increased production of biotechnology drugs and vaccines. The recent acquisition of GeneSystems further expands Pall's capabilities in the biopharmaceuticals, medical, food and water safety markets.
Medical sales decreased 3.2% in the quarter, reflecting lower Blood Filtration sales in the Western Hemisphere. Improved pricing provided some offset.
Operating profit for Life Sciences increased in the quarter 10.2% to $53.9 million. The effect of price increases and favorable product and market mix improved operating margins to 20.5%.
Conclusion/Outlook
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "Pall Corporation has turned in another solid year of sales and earnings growth. In 2009, we expect pro forma EPS to be in the range of $2.15 to $2.30. Pall is well positioned and capitalizing on growing global demand for fluid management technologies and services. We look forward to presenting Pall's new five-year strategic plan at our Investor Day on October 29, 2008."
Conference Call
On Tuesday, September 16, 2008, at 8:30 am ET, Pall Corporation will host a conference call to review these results. The call will be webcast and individuals can access it at . Listening to the webcast requires audio speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player software. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
www.pall.com/investor
2
 
About Pall Corporation
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separation and purification. Pall is organized into two businesses: Life Sciences and Industrial. These businesses provide leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, energy, electronics, water purification, aerospace, transportation and broad industrial markets. Total revenues for fiscal year 2008 were $2.6 billion. The Company is headquartered in East Hills, New York and has extensive operations around the world. For more information visit Pall at
http://www.pall.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
The matters discussed in this release contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Results for 2008 are preliminary until the Company's Form 10-K is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or before September 29, 2008.
Forward-looking statements contained in this release and in the Company's other written and oral reports are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, management's expectations about its future cash needs and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. In some cases forward looking statements can be identified by the use of terms such as "anticipate", "should", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "plan", "predict", "potential", or other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: risks relating to the Company's restatement of prior period financial statements, including the risks associated with the pending IRS audit and pending SEC and Department of Justice investigations and litigation proceedings; risks associated with the Company's planned cash management initiatives, which may result in changes in the Company's effective tax rate; changes in product mix and product pricing may affect the Company's operating results particularly as the systems business expands in which significantly longer sales cycles are experienced with less predictable revenue and profitability and less certainty of future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services; increases in costs of manufacturing and operating costs, including energy and raw materials; the Company's ability to achieve the savings anticipated from its cost reduction and margin improvement initiatives including the timing of completion of its facilities rationalization initiative; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; regulatory approval or market acceptance of new technologies; changes in demand for the Company's products and business relationships with key customers and suppliers including delays or cancellations in shipments; success in enforcing patents and protecting proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; risks associated with the completion or integration of acquisitions; domestic and international competition; and global and regional economic conditions, including particularly the impact of current challenging conditions in the United States that may also have global implications; and legislative, regulatory and political developments. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and expressly disclaims any obligation to update them. You should carefully consider these factors as well as the additional risk factors outlined in more detail in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in other filings the Company makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess the Company's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of Pall's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing the Company's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of ongoing operations.
3
 
4
 
 
5
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
Pall Corporation Patricia Iannucci V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: 516-801-9848 Email: piannucci@pall.com
Contact:
9


