FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20081210164437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On December 9, 2008, Pall Corporation (the "Registrant") released its results of operations for its first quarter ended October 31, 2008. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
     99 Press Release, dated December 9, 2008 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02).
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
East Hills, NY (December 9, 2008)  Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) today reported sales and earnings for the first quarter ended October 31, 2008.
Sales and Earnings Overview
Net earnings were $43.1 million, compared to $36.1 million, an increase of 19.3% over the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Diluted earnings per share ("EPS") were $0.36, up from $0.29 a year earlier. Pro forma EPS, excluding restructuring and other charges as well as non-recurring favorable tax items, were $0.40 versus last year's $0.36, an increase of 11.1%.
As previously reported, first quarter sales grew to $578 million, a 3% increase over the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Sales in local currency ("LC") increased $24 million, or 4.3%, in the quarter. Foreign currency translation reduced reported sales by $7 million or 1.3% in the quarter and had no material impact on EPS.
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman and CEO, stated, "We are pleased with this result particularly given the turbulent macroeconomic environment. Our ongoing productivity improvement and cost reduction initiatives have provided the foundation to deliver gross margin improvement of 170 basis points over last year and operating margin of 13.8%, a 70 basis point improvement."
Industrial  First Quarter Highlights
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands)
 
Energy, Water & Process Technologies grew 5.7% overall, with both consumables and systems contributing to the growth in the quarter. Sales to the Municipal Water and Food & Beverage markets in the Western Hemisphere and Asia were particularly strong.
In Aerospace & Transportation, Military sales increased 37.6% (in LC) while Commercial Aerospace declined 7.5% (in LC).
Microelectronics sales decreased reflecting growing weakness in the semiconductor and consumer electronics markets.
 
Operating profit increased in the quarter 22.2% to $55.1 million. Operating profit margin improved to 15.4% driven by gross margin improvement of 270 basis points while SG&A as a percentage of sales held steady.
Life Sciences  First Quarter Highlights
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands)
 
BioPharmaceuticals sales increased 8.1% in the quarter driven by growth in both the Laboratory and Pharmaceuticals markets, particularly in Europe and Asia. The U.S. Pharmaceuticals market remains weak. Global systems sales increased 13% (in LC) in the quarter as Pall continues to win business on new drug production platforms.
Medical sales decreased 0.9% in the quarter, reflecting lower Blood Filtration sales in the Western Hemisphere. The Hospital, Cell Therapy and OEM markets within Medical each grew.
Operating profit for Life Sciences increased in the quarter 5.2% to $41.9 million. Operating profit margin improved 50 basis points to 19% with pricing and improvement in SG&A contributing.
Conclusion/Outlook
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "Pall's market diversity and strength across the globe should help mitigate the impact of economic turmoil. We maintain a strong balance sheet, solid liquidity and are well positioned for the long term. Yet we are not immune to recessionary pressure. Our expectation is that revenue growth will not exceed 4% (in LC) for this fiscal year. Our established business improvement initiatives provide strong levers to achieve our goals. Coupled with additional measures to manage costs, we maintain our EPS guidance for the year."
Conference Call
On Wednesday, December 10, 2008, at 8:30 am ET, Pall Corporation will host a conference call to review these results. The call will be webcast and individuals can access it at . Listening to the webcast requires audio speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player software. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
www.pall.com/investor
 
About Pall Corporation
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the rapidly growing field of filtration, separation and purification. Pall is organized into two businesses: Life Sciences and Industrial. These businesses provide leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, energy, electronics, water purification, aerospace, transportation and broad industrial markets. Total revenues for fiscal year 2008 were $2.6 billion. The Company is headquartered in East Hills, New York and has extensive operations around the world. For more information visit Pall at
http://www.pall.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
The matters discussed in this release contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. Statements about future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, management's expectations about its future cash needs and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are those that use terms such as "anticipate," "should," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "predict," "potential," or similar expressions about matters that are not historical facts. Such risks and uncertainties include those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, among others, the impact of the current economic environment, including the current credit market crisis, volatility in currency and energy costs and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the Company, our customers and vendors and the economy of the United States and other parts of the world.
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess the Company's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of the Company's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing the Company's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of ongoing operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX
Pall Corporation Patricia Iannucci V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: 516-801-9848 Email: piannucci@pall.com
Contact:


