FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20090610164112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On June 8, 2009, Pall Corporation (the "Registrant") released its results of operations for its third quarter ended April 30, 2009. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99
East Hills, NY (June 8, 2009)  Pall Corporation (NYSE:PLL) today reported sales and earnings for the third quarter and nine months ended April 30, 2009.
Overview
Sales for the nine months were approximately $1.7 billion, a decrease of 3.3% in local currency (LC), and 9.3% including the impact of foreign currency translation, from a year earlier. Net earnings were $126.1 million, compared to $147.4 million in the period last year. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) were $1.05, compared to $1.19 a year earlier. Pro forma EPS, excluding restructuring and other charges, were $1.20 versus last year's $1.36. The estimated impact of foreign currency translation reduced EPS by $0.10.
Third quarter sales were $555.9 million compared to $661.7 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008, a decrease of 6.1% in LC and 16% including the impact of foreign currency translation. Net earnings were $44.2 million compared to $63.3 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Diluted EPS were $0.37, down from $0.51 a year earlier. Pro forma EPS, excluding restructuring and other charges, were $0.42 versus last year's $0.54. The estimated impact of foreign currency translation reduced EPS by $0.07.
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman and CEO, stated, "Pall's continuing cost reduction and productivity improvement efforts helped cushion the impact of global recessionary forces. The sales deceleration has not worsened with the Q3 decline at 6% compared to 7% in Q2. Life Sciences returned to positive growth with a 4% increase in sales in the quarter.
The Aerospace and Municipal Water markets were positives in an otherwise distressed Industrial landscape. We continued to execute on plans to align operating costs to this business climate."
Life Sciences  Third Quarter Highlights
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands)
 
All sales figures below are in LC
Medical sales increased 5.2% in the quarter driven by growth in the Blood Filtration and Hospital markets. The growth in the Blood Filtration market reflects increased sales to independent blood centers in the U.S., accompanied by growth in Europe and Asia.
Our well-positioned Hospital market benefited from customer and regulatory focus on reducing hospital-acquired infections. In particular, the Pall-Aquasafe point-of-use hospital water product line performed well.
TM
 
Sales in BioPharmaceuticals increased 3.2% driven by growth in consumables and systems sales to Pharmaceutical customers. Weak Laboratory results reduced overall BioPharmaceuticals growth by 2.7%. Asia had particularly strong pharmaceutical growth of almost 30%. Continued adoption of the Company's expanding single-use technologies for biotechnology contributed in all geographies.
Life Sciences gross margin declined 20 basis points due to market mix. Pricing improved as did SG&A as a percentage of sales which decreased to 26.4%. This resulted in an overall improvement in operating margin.
Industrial  Third Quarter Highlights
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands)
All sales figures below are in LC
Energy, Water & Process Technologies ("EWPT") sales decreased 7.1% primarily reflecting global weakness in Industrial Manufacturing as well as in the Food & Beverage market in Europe. Sales in energy-related markets were down slightly. The Municipal Water market continued its strong growth, increasing by 26.3%.
In Aerospace & Transportation, Military Aerospace sales continued to grow, increasing 10.9%, while Commercial Aerospace grew 24.6%. Sales in the Transportation market were down reflecting the severe contraction in global mobile equipment production and operations. Microelectronics sales decreased 45.7% reflecting continued weakness in the semiconductor and consumer electronics markets.
Industrial gross margin was negatively impacted by a change in market and product mix and volume reduction that more than offset price improvements and the benefits of lean manufacturing and cost reduction initiatives. SG&A decreased 10% (in LC) as a result of headcount reductions and other cost reduction programs. Operating profit was $40.6 million, while operating profit margin was 12.7%.
Conclusion/Outlook
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "Strong cost control measures, well-established business improvement initiatives and our pricing excellence program have helped to attenuate the impact of a prolonged recession.
Some Industrial markets, particularly Microelectronics and Industrial manufacturing, remain a challenge to forecast. We continue to take out costs even as we position the company for an economic rebound. Life Sciences remains healthy overall. In particular, we welcome the return of positive growth in the Blood Filtration market.
Pall maintains a sound balance sheet and solid liquidity. At the end of the quarter, we had $320 million in cash. We also have reduced debt during this fiscal year. Cash flow from operations was $93 million in the quarter, a strong showing in this economic environment. We continue to manage to current conditions while remaining sharply focused on our long-term vision and strategy."
 
Conference Call and Webcast
On Tuesday, June 9, 2009, at 8:30 am ET, Pall Corporation will host a conference call to review these results. The call will be webcast and individuals can access it at www.pall.com/investor. Listening to the webcast requires audio speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player software. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
About Pall Corporation
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the field of filtration, separation and purification. Pall is organized into two businesses: Life Sciences and Industrial. These businesses provide leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, energy, electronics, water purification, aerospace, transportation and broad industrial markets. Total revenues for fiscal year 2008 were $2.6 billion. The Company is headquartered in East Hills, New York and has extensive operations around the world. For more information visit Pall at http://www.pall.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
The matters discussed in this release contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, management's expectations about its future cash needs and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are those that use terms such as "anticipate", "should", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "plan", "predict", "potential" or similar expressions about matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in the 2008 Form 10-K, and other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the impact of the current global recessionary environment and its likely depth and duration, the current credit market crisis, volatility in currency exchange rates and energy costs and other macro economic challenges currently affecting the Company, our customers (including their cash flow and payment practices) and vendors, and the effectiveness of our initiatives to mitigate the impact of the current environment. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them.
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess the Company's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of the Company's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing the Company's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of ongoing operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pall Corporation Patricia Iannucci V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: 516-801-9848 Email: piannucci@pall.com
Contact:


