FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20090312164013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On March 11, 2009, Pall Corporation (the "Registrant") released its results of operations for its second quarter ended January 31, 2009. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
     99      Press Release, dated March 11, 2009 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02).
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99
East Hills, NY (March 11, 2009)  Pall Corporation (NYSE:PLL) today reported sales and earnings for the second quarter and six months ended January 31, 2009.
Overview
Sales for the six months were $1.1 billion, a decrease of 5.5% or 1.7% in LC, from a year earlier. Net earnings were $82 million, compared to $84.1 million in the period last year. Diluted earnings per share ("EPS") were $0.68, on par with a year earlier. Pro forma EPS, excluding restructuring and other charges as well as non-recurring favorable tax items, were $0.78 versus last year's $0.82. The estimated impact of foreign currency translation reduced earnings per share by $0.03 in both the quarter and six months.
Second quarter sales were $543.3 million compared to $625.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. Foreign exchange reduced sales by $38 million or 6%. Net earnings were $38.9 million compared to $48 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. Diluted EPS were $0.33, down from $0.39 a year earlier. Pro forma EPS, excluding restructuring and other charges, were $0.38 versus last year's $0.46.
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman and CEO, stated, "While the economy deteriorated during our second quarter, Pall is weathering the storm. Our market and geographic diversity provides some shelter. Well-established productivity improvement and cost-reduction programs have been advanced to stay ahead of forecasted changes in market demand. The results can be seen clearly in the 110 basis point improvement in gross margins.
Our ability to respond to the economic downturn contributed to a $13 million reduction in SG&A expenses compared to the first quarter. We are also executing on further plans to align operating costs to this business climate.
Pall maintains a sound balance sheet and solid liquidity. We returned $95 million of cash to shareholders in the six months and increased the quarterly dividend to 14/  per share.
1
2
We are managing to the current reality while preserving our longer-term perspective. Pall should be well-positioned when the economy rebounds."
Life Sciences  Second Quarter Highlights
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands)
 
 
Medical sales decreased 3.4% in the quarter. This is in line with expectations and reflects lower Blood Filtration sales in the Western Hemisphere. Both Cell Therapy and OEM market sales increased.
Sales in BioPharmaceuticals were essentially flat compared to 16.7% growth in the prior year. Pharmaceutical customers were working down inventory levels and delaying capital projects. Laboratory sales were up 10.1% (in LC) with growth in Europe and Asia particularly robust.
Gross margins improved 160 basis points to 51.2% driven by price and market mix changes. SG&A dollars decreased about 2% in LC and decreased 40 basis points as a percentage of sales to 25.4%.Operating profit in the quarter was $48.6 million. Operating profit margin improved to 21.6%.
Industrial  Second Quarter Highlights
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands)
Energy, Water & Process Technologies ("EWPT") sales decreased 6.3% reflecting global weakness in Industrial Manufacturing which declined 23%. On the positive side, Power Generation grew 10% globally. Other bright spots included double-digit sales growth in the Municipal Water market in the Western Hemisphere and in Food & Beverage in the Western Hemisphere and Asia.
In Aerospace & Transportation, Military sales continued to be strong increasing 12.9% (in LC). Commercial Aerospace and Transportation were down.
Microelectronics sales decreased in all geographies driven by continued weakness in the semiconductor and consumer electronics markets.
Gross margins improved 50 basis points to 44.3% driven by price and the benefits of lean manufacturing and cost reduction initiatives. SG&A was flat (in LC). Operating profit was $35.9 million, while operating profit margin was 11.3%.
Conclusion/Outlook
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "Pall's strategic market positions across the globe can help mitigate the impact of the present global macroeconomic environment. We also continue strong cost control measures to palliate the impact of the recession. In light of the turbulent global economic environment, we are not providing specific guidance on sales and earnings. We remain committed to keeping the public informed of conditions and prospects for key markets, trends that affect the business and of our long-term vision and strategy.
While the timing and triggers of economic recovery are unknown at this juncture, what is clear to us is that the long-term drivers for Pall's enabling technologies are compelling."
 
Conference Call
On Thursday, March 12, 2009, at 8:30 am ET, Pall Corporation will host a conference call to review these results. The call will be webcast and individuals can access it at www.pall.com/investor. Listening to the webcast requires audio speakers and Microsoft Windows Media Player software. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
About Pall Corporation
Pall Corporation is the global leader in the field of filtration, separation and purification. Pall is organized into two businesses: Life Sciences and Industrial. These businesses provide leading-edge products to meet the demanding needs of customers in biotechnology, pharmaceutical, transfusion medicine, energy, electronics, water purification, aerospace, transportation and broad industrial markets. Total revenues for fiscal year 2008 were $2.6 billion. The Company is headquartered in East Hills, New York and has extensive operations around the world. For more information visit Pall at http://www.pall.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
The matters discussed in this release contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, management's expectations about its future cash needs and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are those that use terms such as "anticipate", "should", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "plan", "predict", "potential" or similar expressions about matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in the 2008 Form 10-K, and other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the impact of the current global recessionary environment and its likely depth and duration, the current credit market crisis, volatility in currency and energy costs and other macro economic challenges currently affecting the Company, our customers (including their cash flow and payment practices) and vendors, and the effectiveness of our initiatives to mitigate the impact of the current environment. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them.
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess the Company's current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of the Company's GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing the Company's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of ongoing operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pall Corporation Patricia Iannucci V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: 516-801-9848 Email: piannucci@pall.com
Contact:


