FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20100916164134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 o
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 o
 
 o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
     
On September 14, 2010, Pall Corporation (the Registrant) released its results of operations for its fourth quarter and year ended July 31, 2010. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
     
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Port Washington, NY (September 14, 2010) -- Pall Corporation (NYSE:PLL) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended July 31, 2010.
 
Fourth Quarter Sales and Earnings Overview
 
Fourth quarter sales were $678.6 million, a 4.1% gain over last year. Sales in local currency ("LC") increased 5.9%. Foreign currency translation reduced reported sales by $11.6 million, or 1.8%.
 
Pro forma earnings per share ("EPS") were $0.72, compared to $0.57 last year, an increase of 26.3%. This excludes restructuring and other charges, items affecting interest expense and provision for taxes, as well as costs related to the prepayment of debt (collectively, "Discrete Items"). Diluted EPS were $0.46, compared to $0.58 last year, a decrease of 20.7%. Foreign currency translation did not impact EPS in the quarter.
 
Commenting on the fourth quarter in LC, Eric Krasnoff, Chairman, CEO and President, said, Momentum from the third quarter carried over into the fourth. Overall orders were up 19%. Our Industrial business continued to rebound with sales and orders up 4.2% and 26%, respectively, over last years fourth quarter. Sales and orders in Life Sciences increased 7.6% and 12.7%, respectively, with all markets contributing.
 
Significant improvement in gross margin reflects the contribution of ongoing productivity and cost reduction programs and new products. During the quarter we refinanced all of our significant debt. This further secures Pall's liquidity and solidifies our long-term capital structure at historically low interest rates."
 
Full Year Sales and Earnings Overview
 
Sales were $2.4 billion, an increase of 3.1% compared to fiscal year 2009. Sales in LC were up slightly. Foreign currency translation increased reported sales by $58.3 million, or 2.5%.
 
Pro forma EPS increased 19.8% to $2.12 compared to $1.77 last fiscal year, excluding Discrete Items. Diluted EPS increased 23.8% to $2.03, compared to $1.64 in fiscal 2009. Foreign currency translation increased both measures of EPS by approximately $0.10.
 
Commenting on the year, Mr. Krasnoff said, Pall delivered a solid year in a challenging economy. On the top line, Life Sciences performed well all year. Industrial returned to growth mid-year largely on the rapid rebooting of the Microelectronics market. Orders were up in all Industrial markets.
 
Palls programs to increase productivity and reduce costs are part of our DNA. The results are evident in gross margin and EPS. SG&A is up reflecting strategic investments and confidence in the future. We continue to execute our strategic plan to increase shareholder value.
 
Segment and Market Reorganization
 
Effective in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, the Company reorganized its operating segments and markets in order to better align our technologies, market channel and management to customer needs. The changes are as follows:
 
Food & Beverage
is now integrated within Life Sciences. It was previously managed by the Industrial business and reported within the Energy, Water and Process Technologies market (EWPT).
 
 
 
The Aerospace & Transportation market has been renamed
Aeropower
. Aeropower now includes Industrial Manufacturing, previously reported as part of EWPT, which was combined with Transportation to form the
Machinery & Equipment
submarket.
 
The
Power Generation
,
Fuels & Chemicals
and
Municipal Water
submarkets remaining within EWPT are now being reported as
Energy & Water
.
 
Segment and market information for prior periods has been restated to reflect these changes. All discussions and amounts reported in this release are based on the reorganized segment and market structure. Tables outlining the restatement are appended to this earnings release.
 
Life Sciences  Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands and Discussion of Sales and Orders Changes are in Local Currency)
 
BioPharmaceuticals:
Consumable sales in the Pharmaceuticals submarket grew 8.7% with all geographies contributing. These results reflect healthy demand for vaccines and expanding adoption of single-use systems for biotechnology production. Systems sales to Pharmaceutical customers were up 10.1%.
 
Medical:
Sales in the Blood Filtration submarket grew 3.3% reflecting increased adoption of new products.
 
Food & Beverage:
Sales grew 8.4% with increases in both consumables and systems sales.
 
The gross margin improvement in Life Sciences continues to be driven by productivity, cost reduction and pricing gains. Operating profit increased 11.9%.
 
 
 
Industrial  Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands and Discussion of Sales and Orders Changes are in Local Currency)
 
Energy & Water:
The Fuels & Chemicals submarket declined 11%. Consumables sales were up 5% while system sales decreased almost 50% reflecting reduced capital orders during the financial crisis. Power Generation submarket sales, while up slightly for the year, decreased 12.7% for the quarter on weakness in the turbomachinery market. Municipal Water submarket sales increased 7.1% driven by surface water treatment projects in the Western Hemisphere.
 
Aeropower:
The Military Aerospace submarket remained weak. The Commercial Aerospace submarket was flat, while the Machinery & Equipment submarket grew 27.8% as customers increased production levels and replenished inventories.
 
Microelectronics:
Strong growth was driven by high utilization rates as chip producers approach full capacity and by a healthier consumer appetite for electronics.
 
Industrials strong gross margin improvement reflects volume growth particularly in
Microelectronics and Machinery & Equipment. Structural improvements made over the past few years are now more evident with the return to higher volumes. Operating profit increased 53.3%.
 
Conclusion/Outlook
 
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "Pall is steadily executing its strategic plans. We maintain a strong focus on near-term performance while being mindful of our 2013 strategic plan goals presented last December.
 
Some notable accomplishments during fiscal 2010 warrant comment. The European headquarters in Switzerland is now operational. Considerable progress was made to establish Singapore as Pall's Asian hub and on the implementation of our global ERP system. Working capital management efforts were rewarded in the year with operating cash flow of about $380 million. Overall, we are pleased with the progress made in fiscal 2010.
 
In fiscal year 2011, Pro forma EPS is projected to be in a range of $2.35 to $2.55 per share. This guidance reflects a $0.03 headwind from foreign currency translation.
 
Conference Call
 
On Wednesday, September 15, 2010, at 8:30 am ET, Pall Corporation will host a conference call to review these results. The call can be accessed at www.pall.com/investor. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
 
 
 
About Pall Corporation
 
Pall Corporation (NYSE:PLL) is a filtration, separation and purification leader providing solutions to meet the critical needs of customers across the broad spectrum of Life Sciences and Industrial markets. Pall works with customers to advance health, safety and environmentally responsible technologies. The Companys engineered products enable process and product innovation and minimize emissions and waste. Pall Corporation, with total revenues of $2.4 billion for fiscal 2010, is an S&P 500 company with more than 10,000 employees serving customers worldwide. Pall has been named a top "green company" by
Newsweek
magazine. To see how Pall is helping enable a greener, safer, more sustainable future, visit www.pall.com/green.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The matters discussed in this release contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Results for fiscal year 2010 are preliminary until the Company's Form 10-K is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or before September 29, 2010.
 
Forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that the Company or management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, managements expectations about its future cash needs and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are those that use terms such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "intend," "should," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "forecast," "project," "plan," "predict," "potential," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on managements assumptions and assessments in the light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guara ntees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties, which can affect our performance in both the near- and long-term and cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in the 2009 Form 10-K, and other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effect of litigation and regulatory inquiries associated with the restatement of our prior period financial statements; our ability to successfully complete our business improvement initiatives, which include integrating and upgrading our information systems and the effect of a serious disruption in our information systems; the impact of legislative, regulatory and political developments globally and the impact of the uncertain global e conomic environment and the timing and strength of a recovery in the markets and regions we serve, and the extent to which adverse economic conditions may affect our sales volume and results; demand for our products and business relationships with key customers and suppliers, which may be impacted by their cash flow and payment practices, as well as delays or cancellations in shipments; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and energy costs and other macro economic challenges currently affecting us; changes in product mix, market mix and product pricing, particularly relating to the expansion of the systems business; increase in costs of manufacturing and operating costs; our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market acceptance of new technologies, enforce patents and protect proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; our ability to successfully complete or integrate any acquisitions; the impact of pricing and other actions by comp etitors; and our ability to achieve the savings anticipated from cost reduction and gross margin improvement initiatives. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess the Companys current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of the Companys GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing the Companys financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of ongoing operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pro forma earnings exclude the items below as they are deemed to be non-recurring in nature and/or not considered by management to be indicative of underlying operating performance. The pro forma tax effects disclosed were calculated using applicable entity-specific U.S. federal and/or foreign tax rates.
 
(a) ROTC in the quarter and year ended July 31, 2010 of $11,005 ($6,970 after pro forma tax effect of $4,035) and $17,092 ($11,074 after pro forma tax effect of $6,018), respectively, includes severance and other costs related to the Company's cost reduction and reorganization initiatives and an increase to a previously established environmental reserve. Such costs in the year were partly offset by receipt of insurance claim payments related to the previously reported matters that were under inquiry by the audit committee of the Company's board of directors.
 
ROTC in the quarter ended July 31, 2009 of $5,432 ($3,979 after pro forma tax effect of $1,453) is primarily comprised of severance and other costs related to the Company's cost reduction programs. ROTC in the year ended July 31, 2009 of $30,723 ($22,813 after pro forma tax effect of $7,910) is primarily comprised of severance and other costs related to the Company's cost reduction programs, professional fees related to the previously reported matters that were under inquiry by the audit committee of the Companys board of directors, an increase to previously established environmental reserves, the impairment of investments and capitalized software development costs and a charge to write-off in process research and development acquired in the acquisition of GeneSystems, SA.
 
(b) Provision for taxes in the quarter ended July 31, 2010 include a charge of $3,012 primarily related to tax costs associated with the establishment of the Company's European Life Sciences Headquarters.
 
Interest expense, net, and provision for income taxes in the year ended July 31, 2010 also includes the reversal of accrued interest of $11,537 ($9,573 after pro forma tax effect of $1,964) and income taxes payable of $14,188, respectively. These items principally related to the resolution of foreign tax audits and expiring foreign statutes of limitation for assessment related to uncertain tax positions.
 
Provision for income taxes in the quarter ended July 31, 2009 includes benefits related to the repatriation of earnings, a favorable tax settlement and a restructuring. Provision for income taxes in the year ended July 31, 2009 also includes a benefit for newly enacted tax legislation.
 
(c) In the quarter and the year ended July 31, 2010, the Company redeemed its $280,000 6.00% Senior Notes due in fiscal year 2013. Costs of $32,875 ($21,041 after pro forma tax effect of $11,834), include the loss on extinguishment of debt (comprised of a redemption premium and the write-off of deferred financing costs related to the origination of the notes) and incremental interest expense incurred during the redemption period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact:
 
Pall Corporation
Patricia Iannucci
V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: 516-801-9848 Email:
piannucci@pall.com
 
 


