FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20101210162107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): December 9, 2010
 
PALL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
   
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
   
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
   
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
   
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
 On December 9, 2010, Pall Corporation (the Registrant) released its results of operations for its first quarter ended October 31, 2010. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
   
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 (d) Exhibits.
   
 
 99 Press Release, dated December 9, 2010 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02).
   
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
4
 

Exhibit 99
 
Pall Corporation Reports Strong First Quarter Sales and Earnings
 
Port Washington, NY (December 9, 2010) -- Pall Corporation (
NYSE:PLL
) today reported financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 which ended on October 31, 2010.
 
First Quarter Sales and Earnings Overview
 
First quarter sales were $605.5 million, a 10.7% gain over last year. Sales in local currency ("LC") increased 12.1%. Foreign currency translation reduced reported sales by 1.4%.
 
Pro forma earnings per share ("EPS") were $0.62, compared to $0.40 last year, an increase of 55%. In both periods, this excludes restructuring and other charges and items affecting interest expense and provision for income taxes last year (collectively, Discrete Items"). Diluted EPS were $0.61, compared to $0.56 last year. Foreign currency translation did not affect EPS in the quarter.
 
Eric Krasnoff, Chairman, CEO and President, said, The first quarter provided a good start to the year. Growth was broad based by market and geography. Sales in our Industrial business increased over 14% in LC. Microelectronics and Machinery & Equipment again performed well. Aerospace returned to growth in the quarter after a down fiscal 2010. Our Life Sciences business saw sales increase over 10% in LC. Within Life Sciences, BioPharmaceuticals grew 15%. Orders in Industrial and Life Sciences increased about 7%. Sales growth and productivity drove up gross margin to 51% and operating margin to over 17%.
 
Life Sciences  First Quarter Highlights
 
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands and Discussion of Sales and Orders Changes are in Local Currency)
 
BioPharmaceuticals:
Sales in Pharmaceuticals increased 14.6% with particular strength in the biotech and plasma industries. Sales increased in all geographies, led by the Western Hemisphere and Asia. Consumables sales grew 13.5% and systems sales were up 30.3%.
 
Sales in Laboratory grew 14.0% with solid increases in all regions.
 
Medical:
OEM sales increased 18.8% driven by Europe. Sales in Blood Filtration grew 1.1%.
 
Food & Beverage:
Sales growth reflects improving market conditions and increasing demand in emerging regions. Consumables sales increased 11.5%, with all geographies contributing.
 
1
 
 
The 110 basis point improvement in Life Sciences operating margin reflects the growth in sales, including continued improvement in pricing, and the contribution of cost savings initiatives.
 
Industrial  First Quarter Highlights
 
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands and Discussion of Sales and Orders Changes are in Local Currency)
 
Aeropower:
Machinery & Equipment sales grew 32.3% as customers worldwide increased production levels. Demand in the mining and primary metals industries was particularly strong.
 
Sales in Aerospace increased 15.4% led by 27.3% growth in the commercial sector. Military Aerospace sales grew 6.3%.
 
Energy & Water:
Sales in Fuels & Chemicals declined 12.7%.
Consumables sales increased 10.7% as production of oil and gas, chemicals, and polymers increased. Systems sales, which can be large and lumpy, decreased 63.5%.
 
Power Generation sales increased 11.1%. This was driven by continued growth including strong performance in the wind-turbine market in Asia and water treatment systems for power stations in the Western Hemisphere.
 
Municipal Water sales increased 11.3% with particular strength in the Western Hemisphere.
 
Microelectronics:
The Microelectronics market remained strong worldwide. Growth continued to reflect high utilization rates at chip producers and a healthier consumer demand for advanced electronics such as LED display technology.
 
Industrials gross margin, supported by productivity improvements in manufacturing operations, also benefited from the leverage provided by sales growth, particularly in the Microelectronics market and the Machinery & Equipment submarket. Operating profit almost doubled from a year ago to $45.3 million.
 
Conclusion/Outlook
 
Mr. Krasnoff concluded, "Pall's robust first quarter results suggest economic recovery is continuing. The Western Hemisphere in particular saw revenue increase 25% and consumables orders grow 13%. Increasing economic activity was also evident in the key emerging markets the company has been focused on developing. We continue to expect a CAGR of about 20% in Latin America, MENA, China, Southeast Asia and Eastern Europe over the next 3 years.
 
FX has been on a roller coaster for the past 2 years. With exchange rates as they currently stand, translation would be about neutral to EPS. Based upon the first quarter results and outlook, we now expect projected pro forma EPS to be in the range of $2.48 to $2.63 for fiscal 2011. We are steadily executing our long-term strategic plan with confidence.
 
2
 
 
Conference Call
On Friday, December 10, 2010, at 8:30 am EST, Pall Corporation will host a conference call to review these results. The call can be accessed at www.pall.com/investor. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
 
About Pall Corporation
< font size="2" style="FONT-FAMILY: times new roman">.
Pall Corporation (
NYSE:PLL
) is a filtration, separation and purification leader providing solutions to meet the critical needs of customers across the broad spectrum of life sciences and industry. Pall works with customers to advance health, safety and environmentally responsible technologies. The Companys engineered products enable process and product innovation and minimize emissions and waste. Pall Corporation, with total revenues of $2.4 billion for fiscal 2010, is an S&P 500 company with more than 10,000 employees serving customers worldwide. To see how Pall is helping enable a greener, safer, more sustainable future, visit
www.pall.com/green
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The matters discussed in this report contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 are preliminary until the Company's Form 10-Q is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010.
 
Forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that the Company or management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, managements expectations about its future cash needs and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are those that use terms such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "intend," "should," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "forecast," "project," "plan," "predict," "potential," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on managements assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are subject to ri sks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ materially from those envisaged by the Companys forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part IItem 1A.Risk Factors in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effect of litigation and regulatory inquiries associated with the restatement of our prior period financial statements; the impact of legislative, regulatory and political developments globally and the impact of the uncertain global economic environment and the timing and strength of a recovery in the markets and regions we serve, and the extent to which adverse economic conditions may affect our sales volume and results; demand for our products and business relationships with key customers and suppliers, which may be impacted by their cash f low and payment practices, as well as delays or cancellations in shipments; our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market acceptance of new technologies; our ability to successfully complete our business improvement initiatives, which include integrating and upgrading our information systems and the effect of a serious disruption in our information systems; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and energy costs and other macro economic challenges currently affecting us; changes in product mix, market mix and product pricing, particularly relating to the expansion of the systems business; increase in costs of manufacturing and operating costs; our ability to achieve the savings anticipated from cost reduction and gross margin improvement initiatives; the effect of the restrictive covenants in the Companys debt facilities; our ability to enforce patents and protect proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; our ability to succ essfully complete or integrate any acquisitions; and the impact of pricing and other actions by competitors. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess the Companys current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of the Companys GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing the Companys financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of ongoing operations.
 
3
 
 
PALL CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Unaudited)
(Amounts in Thousands)
 
4
 
 
PALL CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(Unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
Pro forma earnings exclude the items below as they are deemed to be non-recurring in nature and/or not considered by management to be indicative of underlying operating performance. The pro forma tax effects
disclosed were calculated using applicable entity-specific U.S. federal and/or foreign tax rates.
 
(a) ROTC in the quarter ended Oct. 31, 2010 of $1,409 ($1,054 after pro forma tax effect of $355) and in the quarter ended October 31, 2009 of $4,057 ($2,739 after pro forma tax effect of $1,318), primarily includes costs related to the Company's cost reduction initiatives.
 
(b) Interest expense/(income), net, and provision for income taxes in the quarter ended Oct. 31, 2009 includes the reversal of accrued interest of $8,984 ($7,499 after pro forma tax effect of $1,485) and income taxes payable of $14,188, principally related to the resolution of a foreign tax audit.
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
Contact:
 
Pall Corporation
Patricia Iannucci
V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: 516-801-9848 Email:
piannucci@pall.com
 
8
 


