FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20100513164455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 o
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain
Officers; Compensatory Arrangement of Certain Officers.
 
On May 11, 2010, Pall Corporation (the Registrant) announced that Donald Stevens, 65, will retire as the Registrants Chief Operating Officer and President Industrial effective immediately. Mr. Stevens will remain as President of the Registrant until July 31, 2010. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Stevens retirement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Registrant also announced that its Board of Directors (the Board) appointed Roberto Perez, 61, as Mr. Stevens successor as Chief Operating Officer effective May 11, 2010, upon which, Mr. Perez will step down from his current positions as Group Vice President and President Life Sciences. The Board also appointed Eric Krasnoff, 58, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as President of the Registrant effective upon Mr. Stevens departure. Mr. Krasnoff will assume his new role in addition to his current responsibilities.
 
Additional information regarding Mr. Perez and Mr. Krasnoff required by this Item 5.02 has been previously disclosed in the Registrants Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2009 and the Proxy Statement for the Registrants 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, both as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 29, 2009 and October 9, 2009, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y., May 11, 2010 - Eric Krasnoff, Pall Corporation (NYSE:PLL) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, today announced that Donald B. Stevens, 65, President, Chief Operating Officer and President of Pall Industrial, is retiring, capping a career spanning over 40 years. Mr. Stevens is leaving his positions as COO and President of Pall Industrial now and will remain as the Company's President until the end of Palls fiscal year on July 31, 2010.
 
Every part of the business has benefited from Don's leadership and drive. Don has seen Pall grow from $24.5 million in sales to $2.3 billion. He has successfully led Pall Industrial through the recent difficult period to a return to growth, said Eric Krasnoff. On behalf of our Board of Directors and the entire organization, I thank Don for his years of dedication and many contributions to Palls success. We wish him all the best in his retirement.
 
Mr. Stevens said, I am proud to have served Pall Corporation in so many areas of increasing responsibility and look back on the Company's accomplishments with a keen sense of satisfaction. I am now focused on transitioning my responsibilities to my very experienced and capable successors.
 
Mr. Krasnoff also announced the appointment of Roberto Perez as Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Perez, most recently the President of Pall Life Sciences, assumes responsibility for Pall Industrial. Another Pall veteran, Yves Baratelli, has been named Group Vice President and President of Pall Life Sciences reporting to Mr. Perez. The Board of Directors appointed Mr. Krasnoff as Pall Corporation's President, effective with Mr. Stevens departure. Mr. Krasnoff continues as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Mr. Perez joined Pall Corporation in January, 2000 and has held a number of senior management positions. Prior to joining Pall, Mr. Perez, was President of Baxter International's Fenwal Division. He has over 30 years of medical device and pharmaceutical experience.
 
"Pall is rich in managerial strength and depth of talent. Our executive team is excited to build on past successes and continue to move the company forward, Mr. Krasnoff said.
 
About Pall Corporation
 
Pall Corporation (NYSE:PLL) is a filtration, separation and purification leader providing Total Fluid Management
SM
solutions to meet the critical needs of customers in biopharmaceutical; hospital and transfusion medicine; energy and alternative energy; electronics; municipal and industrial water; aerospace; transportation and broad industrial markets. Together with our customers, we foster health, safety and environmentally responsible technologies. The Companys engineered solutions enable process and product innovation and minimize emissions and waste. Pall Corporation, with total revenues of $2.3 billion for fiscal 2009, is an S&P 500 company with more than 10,000 employees serving customers worldwide. Pall has been named a top "green company" by
Newsweek
magazine. To see how Pall is helping enable a greener and more sustainable future, visit
www.pall.com
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The matters discussed in this release contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, managements expectations about its future cash needs and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are those that use terms such as anticipate, should, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, predict, potential or similar expressions about matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on current Company expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in the 2009 Form 10-K, and other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the impact of the uncertain global economic environment and the timing and strength of a recovery in the markets we serve, and the extent to which adverse economic conditions continue to affect our
sales volume and results, demand for our products and business relationships with key customers and suppliers, which may be impacted by their cash flow and payment practices, and volatility in currency exchange rates and energy costs and other macro economic challenges currently affecting the Company, and the Companys ability to successfully complete its business improvement initiatives that include integrating and upgrading its information systems and the effect of a serious disruption in the Companys information systems on its business and results of operations. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them.
 
Pall Corporation
Patricia Iannucci
V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: 516-801-9848 Email:
pat_iannucci@pall.com
 
 
 


