FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20111007163029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
 
On October 6, 2011, Pall Corporation (the Registrant) issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of an additional $250 million of the Registrants common stock in connection with its ongoing share repurchase program. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Pall Corporation Board of Directors Authorizes $250 Million to Repurchase Shares
 
Port Washington, NY October 06, 2011  Last week, the Board of Directors of Pall Corporation (NYSE:PLL) increased the Company's authorization to repurchase shares of its common stock by $250 million.
 
As of July 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $200 million remaining from an authorization dated October 16, 2008. Consistent with fiscal year 2011, Pall expects to purchase approximately $150 million worth of Company shares during the course of fiscal year 2012. There are no time restrictions on either authorization.
 
Larry Kingsley, Pall CEO and president said, "I am convinced that there will be attractive growth and capital allocation opportunities for us to pursue, both internally and externally, on a long-term basis. Shorter term, as we continue to build out our acquisition and integration capabilities, we will improve shareholder return through our repurchase capability."
 
About Pall Corporation
 
Pall Corporation (NYSE:
PLL
) is a filtration, separation and purification leader providing solutions to meet the critical fluid management needs of customers across the broad spectrum of life sciences and industry. Pall works with customers to advance health, safety and environmentally responsible technologies. The Companys engineered products enable process and product innovation and minimize emissions and waste. Pall Corporation, with total revenues of $2.7 billion for fiscal year 2011, is an S&P 500 company with almost 11,000 employees serving customers worldwide. To see how Pall is helping enable a greener, safer, more sustainable future, follow us on Twitter
@PallCorporation
or visit
www.pall.com/green
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The matters discussed in this press release contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that the Company or management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, managements expectations about its future cash needs and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are those that use terms such as may, will, expect, believe, intend, should, could, anticipate, estimate, forecast, project, plan, predict, potential, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on managements assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. 
 
 
The Companys forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ materially from those envisaged by the Companys forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part IItem 1A.Risk Factors in the 2011 Form 10-K, and other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including: the impact of legislative, regulatory and political developments globally; the impact of the uncertain global economic environment; the extent to which adverse economic conditions may affect our sales volume and results; changes in product mix, market mix and product pricing, particularly relating to the expansion of the systems business; our ability to develop and commercialize new technologies, enforce patents and protect proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; demand for our products and business relationships with key customers and suppliers, which may be impacted by their cash flow and payment practices; delays or cancellations in shipments; our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market acceptance of new technologies; our ability to successfully complete our business improvement initiatives, which include supply chain enhancements and integrating and upgrading our information systems; the effect of a serious disruption in our information systems; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and energy costs and other macroeconomic challenges currently affecting us; increase in costs of manufacturing and operating costs; our ability to achieve and sustain the savings anticipated from cost reduction and gross margin improvement initiatives; our ability to attract and retain management talent; the impact of pricing and other actions by competitors; the effect of litigation and regulatory inquiries associated with the restatement of our prior period financial statements; the effect of the restrictive covenants in our debt facilities; and our ability to successfully complete or integrate any acquisitions. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict all of them. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
 
Pall Corporation Patricia Iannucci
V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: 516-801-9848 Email: pat_iannucci@pall.com
 


