FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20110916165437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
       
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
       
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
       
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
     
On September 14, 2011, Pall Corporation (the Registrant) released its results of operations for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended July 31, 2011. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        (d) Exhibits.
 
        99 Press Release, dated September 14, 2011 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02).
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Port Washington, NY (September 14, 2011) -- Pall Corporation (
NYSE:PLL
) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended July 31, 2011.
 
Fourth Quarter Sales and Earnings Overview
 
Fourth quarter sales were $780.4 million, a 15.0% gain over last year. Sales in local currency ("LC") increased 6.2%. Foreign currency translation increased reported sales by 8.8%.
 
Diluted earnings per share (EPS) were $0.82, compared to $0.46 last year. Pro forma EPS were $0.76 (excluding restructuring and other charges and items impacting interest and provision for income taxes: Discrete Items). This compares to $0.72 last year, for an increase of about 6%. The estimated impact of foreign currency translation increased both measures of fiscal year 2011 EPS by $0.08 in the quarter.
 
Commenting on the quarter, Eric Krasnoff, CEO and President, said, As previously announced, fourth quarter sales increased 6% in LC, with growth in all markets. While sales volume in both businesses met our expectations, profitability in Pall Industrial did not. The end result is that fourth quarter earnings fell short of the Companys expectations.
 
We are pleased that the IRS concluded its audits of fiscal years 1999 through 2005. The quarter reflects the benefits of reversing approximately $27 million of previously recorded tax-related liabilities. Moreover, this settlement substantially eliminates the uncertainty of penalties to which the Company may be subject.
 
Full Year Sales and Earnings Overview
 
For the full year, sales were $2.74 billion, a 14.1% increase over fiscal year 2010. Sales in LC increased 10.9%. Foreign currency translation increased reported sales in the year by 3.2%.
 
Diluted EPS were $2.67, compared to $2.03 for the same period last year. Pro forma EPS, excluding Discrete Items, were $2.77, an increase of almost 31% compared to $2.12 a year earlier. The estimated impact of foreign currency translation increased both measures of fiscal year 2011 EPS by $0.13.
 
Mr. Krasnoff said, Fiscal year 2011 sales increased 11% in LC in both Life Sciences and Industrial with solid contributions from all markets.
 
BioPharmaceuticals led the growth in the year, with sales increasing almost 16%. Sales in Microelectronics grew over 14%, and Aeropower grew more than 11%. Sales in the Food & Beverage and Energy & Water markets increased in the high single digit range, while the Medical market grew about 5%.
 
On a geographic basis, sales in both Industrial and Life Sciences grew in all regions. The Western Hemisphere was strongest with sales increasing 16%. Europe grew over 9% and Asia over 7%. Excluding Japan, sales in Asia increased about 11%.
 
At year end, total backlog for Pall Corporation was up almost 15% in LC.
 
Gross margin was on par with fiscal year 2010 at about 50%. SG&A, as a percentage of sales, reduced 110 basis points to 29.7%. This resulted in operating margin of 17.2%.
 
 
Life Sciences  Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands and Discussion of Sales and Orders Changes are in Local Currency)
 
BioPharmaceuticals:
Sales in Pharmaceuticals increased 9%, with almost 12% growth in consumables. Sales in all geographies grew, led by Europe, the largest part of the market for Pall, with more than a 12% increase.
 
Medical:
Blood Filtration sales increased 7% led by growth in Europe. Medical OEM sales grew 3%.
 
Food & Beverage:
Growth in all geographies was strong,
driven by new products and applications and emerging markets.
 
Life Sciences gross margin improved 150 basis points, while SG&A held steady at about 26% of sales. As a result, operating margin improved by 130 basis points to 23.3%. Operating profit was $91.7 million, an increase of 24%, over last year.
 
Industrial  Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
(Dollar Amounts in Thousands and Discussion of Sales and Orders Changes are in Local Currency)
 
Energy & Water:
Sales in Fuels & Chemicals increased almost 27% with capital spending in all geographies fueling growth. All sectors of the market contributed to the results in the quarter.
 
 
Power Generation sales decreased 2% on weakness in the fossil fuel and turbo-machinery markets in Europe and lower sales to wind turbine OEMs in Asia.
 
Municipal Water sales decreased almost 20% reflecting timing of shipments. Sales for the full year increased over 8% as U.S. municipalities continue to move to comply with environmental regulations.
 
Aeropower:
Overall, sales in Aerospace increased about 2%. Commercial Aerospace sales increased 4% with growth in all geographies. Military Aerospace sales were flat in the quarter with the backlog up almost 36% in LC.
 
Machinery & Equipment sales were flat due to timing of shipments. The mining, primary metals and OEM markets remain strong.
 
Microelectronics:
Fourth quarter sales reflect continued global strength in semiconductor chip production and weaker demand among U.S. OEMs.
 
Industrial gross margin decreased 460 basis points to 43.2% primarily related to the mix and profitability of systems and capital goods. Commodity-based inflation and SG&A were also a headwind to operating margin in the quarter. Industrials operating margin declined to 13.4%, while operating profit decreased 26% to $51.9 million.
 
Conclusion/Outlook
 
For fiscal 2012, we expect pro forma EPS to range from $3.07 to $3.32 per share. This guidance reflects an estimated $0.02 benefit from foreign currency translation and excludes the impact of plans that we expect may generate Discrete Items. A reconciliation of the pro forma to GAAP EPS range is attached.
 
Conference Call
 
On Thursday, September 15, 2011, at 8:30 am ET, Pall Corporation will host a conference call to review these results. The call can be accessed at www.pall.com/investor. The webcast will be archived for 30 days.
 
About Pall Corporation
 
Pall Corporation (NYSE:
PLL
) is a filtration, separation and purification leader providing solutions to meet the critical fluid management needs of customers across the broad spectrum of life sciences and industry. Pall works with customers to advance health, safety and environmentally responsible technologies. The Companys engineered products enable process and product innovation and minimize emissions and waste. Pall Corporation, with total revenues of $2.7 billion for fiscal 2011, is an S&P 500 company with more than 10,000 employees serving customers worldwide. To see how Pall is helping enable a greener, safer, more sustainable future, follow us on Twitter
@PallCorporation
or visit
www.pall.com/green
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The matters discussed in this report contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Results for fiscal year 2011 are preliminary until the Company's Form 10-K is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or before September 29, 2011.
 
Forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that the Company or management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, managements expectations about its future cash needs and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are those that use terms such as may, will, expect, believe, intend, should, could, anticipate, estimate, forecast, project, plan, predict, potential, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on managements assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors.
 
 
The Companys forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ materially from those envisaged by the Companys forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part IItem 1A.Risk Factors in the 2010 Form 10-K, and other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including; the impact of legislative, regulatory and political developments globally; the impact of the uncertain global economic environment; the extent to which adverse economic conditions may affect our sales volume and results; changes in product mix, market mix and product pricing, particularly relating to the expansion of the systems business; our ability to develop and commercialize new technologies, enforce patents and protect proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; demand for our products and business relationships with key customers and suppliers, which may be impacted by their cash flow and payment practices; delays or cancellations in shipments; our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market acceptance of new technologies; our ability to successfully complete our business improvement initiatives, which include supply chain enhancements and integrating and upgrading our information systems; the effect of a serious disruption in our information systems; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and energy costs and other macro economic challenges currently affecting us; increase in costs of manufacturing and operating costs; our ability to achieve and sustain the savings anticipated from cost reduction and gross margin improvement initiatives; our ability to attract and retain management talent; the impact of pricing and other actions by competitors; the effect of litigation and regulatory inquiries associated with the restatement of our prior period financial statements; the effect of the restrictive covenants in our debt facilities; and our ability to successfully complete or integrate any acquisitions. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict all of them. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
Management uses certain non-GAAP measurements to assess the Companys current and future financial performance. The non-GAAP measurements do not replace the presentation of the Companys GAAP financial results. These measurements provide supplemental information to assist management in analyzing the Companys financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to facilitate meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of ongoing operations. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures used throughout this report to the most directly comparable GAAP measures appear in this report and are also available on Palls website at www.pall.com/investor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pro forma earnings exclude the items below as they are deemed to be non-recurring in nature and/or not considered by management to be indicative of underlying operating performance. The pro forma tax effects disclosed were calculated using applicable entity-specific U.S. federal and/or foreign tax rates.
 
(a) Interest expense, net, and provision for income taxes in the quarter ended July 31, 2011 includes the reversal of accrued interest of $6,184 ($3,413 after pro forma tax effect of $2,771) and income taxes payable of $18,990, respectively. These items principally relate to the resolution of a U.S. tax audit that increased net earnings by $27,496 partly offset by the tax cost of repatriation of foreign earnings.
 
Provision for income taxes in the year ended July 31, 2011 also includes a charge of $8,409 related to tax costs associated with the establishment of the Company's Asian Headquarters in Singapore.
 
Provision for income taxes in the quarter ended July 31, 2010 includes a charge of $3,012 primarily related to tax costs associated with the establishment of the Company's European Life Sciences Headquarters.
 
Interest expense, net, and provision for income taxes in the year ended July 31, 2010 also includes the reversal of accrued interest of $11,780 ($9,804 after pro forma tax effect of $1,976) and income taxes payable of $14,188, respectively. These items principally related to the resolution of foreign tax audits and expiring foreign statutes of limitation for assessment related to uncertain tax positions.
 
(b) ROTC in the quarter and year ended July 31, 2011, included in Discrete Items, of $19,920 ($14,739 after pro forma tax effect of $5,181) and $33,841 ($26,152 after pro forma tax effect of $7,689), respectively, primarily includes costs related to the Company's cost reduction initiatives, certain employment contract obligations and an increase to environmental reserves.
 
ROTC in the quarter and year ended July 31, 2010, included in Discrete Items, of $11,005 ($6,970 after pro forma tax effect of $4,035) and $17,092 ($11,074 after pro forma tax effect of $6,018), respectively, primarily includes severance and other costs related to the Company's cost reduction and reorganization initiatives.
 
(c) In the fourth quarter and the year ended July 31, 2010, the Company redeemed its $280,000 6.00% Senior Notes due in fiscal year 2013. Costs of $32,875 ($21,041 after pro forma tax effect of $11,834), include the loss on extinguishment of debt (comprised of a redemption premium and the write-off of deferred financing costs related to the origination of the notes) and incremental interest expense incurred during the redemption period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) represents the midpoint of the range of expected ROTC of $30-$40 million, net of pro forma tax effect of $6.2 million, calculated using applicable entity-specific U.S. federal and/or foreign tax rates.
 
 
Contact:
 
Pall Corporation
Patricia Iannucci
V.P. Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Telephone: 516-801-9848 Email:
piannucci@pall.com
 


