FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20120802162304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): August 1, 2012
PALL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(516) 484-5400
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On August 1, 2012, Pall Corporation (the Company) announced that it completed the sale of the assets relating to its blood collection, filtration and processing product lines (the Product Lines and such transaction, the Transaction) to Haemonetics Corporation (Haemonetics). The Company had previously announced that on April 28, 2012, it had entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement wherein the Company agreed to sell to Haemonetics substantially all of its assets related to the Product Lines. As part of the Transaction, the Company transferred to Haemonetics the Product Lines manufacturing facilities in Covina, California, Tijuana, Mexico and Ascoli, Italy, and a portion of the Company's manufacturing operations in Fajardo, Puerto Rico. In connection with the transfer of the Product Lines operations in Tijuana, Mexico, the Company transfered to Haemonetics all of the outstanding equity interests in Pall Mexico Manufacturing, S. de R.L. de C.V.
Separate from these manufacturing facilities, the Company will also transfer related blood media manufacturing capacity to Haemonetics and will construct and install for Haemonetics a media manufacturing line in Puerto Rico. That process is expected to be completed by the Companys fiscal year 2016. Until that time, the Company will provide the media components to Haemonetics under a supply agreement.
At the closing of the Transaction, subject to post-closing adjustments, the Company received approximately $535 million in cash consideration. An additional $15 million has been held back, and will be payable upon delivery by the Company and acceptance by Haemonetics of the new media manufacturing line.
ITEM 7.01 Regulation FD.
On August 1, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Transaction had closed . A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                    
   
                        
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 99.1
Pall Corp. Completes Sale of its Blood Transfusion Product Line to Haemonetics
PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y., August 1, 2012
- Pall Corporation (NYSE:PLL) today announced it has completed the sale of the business assets of its blood collection, filtration and processing product lines to Haemonetics Corporation (NYSE:HAE).
As previously announced, the transaction involved the transfer of several manufacturing facilities and related employees. In addition, Pall will transfer certain blood media manufacturing assets to Haemonetics by 2016. Until that time, Pall will manage these media assets under a supply agreement.
Pall will continue to provide its complete line of Hospital and Cell Therapy products to the medical community. For more information about Palls medical products, visit: http://www.pall.com/medical.
About Pall Corporation
Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) is a filtration, separation and purification leader providing solutions to meet the critical fluid management needs of customers across the broad spectrum of life sciences and industry. Pall works with customers to advance health, safety and environmentally responsible technologies. The Companys engineered products enable process and product innovation and minimize emissions and waste. Pall Corporation is an S&P 500 company serving customers worldwide. Pall has been named a top green company by
Newsweek
magazine. To see how Pall is helping enable a greener, safer, more sustainable future, follow us on Twitter @PallCorporation
or visit www.pall.com/green
.
Forward-Looking Statements
The matters discussed in this report contain forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that the Company or management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, earnings guidance, managements expectations about its future cash needs, dilution from the disposition or future allocation of capital and effective tax rate, and other future events or developments are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are those that use terms such as may, will, expect, believe, intend, should, could, anticipate, estimate, forecast, project, plan, predict, potential, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are based on managements assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors.
The Companys forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ materially from those envisaged by the Companys forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part IItem 1A.Risk Factors in the 2011 Form 10-K, and other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including: the impact of legislative, regulatory and political developments globally; the impact of the uncertain global economic environment; the extent to which adverse economic conditions may affect the Company's sales volume and results; changes in product mix, market mix and product pricing, particularly relating to the expansion of the systems business; the
Company's ability to develop and commercialize new technologies, enforce patents and protect proprietary products and manufacturing techniques; demand for our products and business relationships with key customers and suppliers, which may be impacted by their cash flow and payment practices; delays or cancellations in shipments; the Company's ability to obtain regulatory approval or market acceptance of new technologies; the Company's ability to successfully complete the Company's business improvement initiatives, which include supply chain enhancements and integrating and upgrading the Company's information systems; the effect of a serious disruption in the Company's information systems; fluctuations in the Company's effective tax rate; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and energy costs and other macroeconomic challenges currently affecting the Company; increase in costs of manufacturing and operating costs; the Company's ability to achieve and sustain the savings anticipated from cost reduction and gross margin improvement initiatives; the Company's ability to attract and retain management talent; the impact of pricing and other actions by competitors; the effect of litigation and regulatory inquiries associated with the restatement of the Company's prior period financial statements; the effect of the restrictive covenants in the Company's debt facilities; and the Company's ability to successfully complete or integrate any acquisitions. Factors or events that could cause the Company's actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict all of them. The Company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure and undertakes no obligation to update them, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:


