FILE:PLL/PLL-8K-20121218162723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 18, 2012, Pall Corporation (the "Registrant") announced that Lisa McDermott resigned as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Registrant, effective March 10, 2013.
A copy of the Registrant's press release announcing Ms. McDermott's resignation is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
Pall Corporation Announces Resignation of Chief Financial Officer
PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y., December 18, 2012  Pall Corporation (NYSE:PLL) today announced that Lisa McDermott, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, will be leaving the Company effective March 10, 2013, in order to pursue other interests. While an external search is underway, Ms. McDermott will continue to serve the Company as CFO until her departure on March 10, 2013 or as soon as her successor is named.
"We very much appreciate the years of dedication and service that Lisa has given to Pall and wish her the very best in her future career," said Larry Kingsley, President and CEO of Pall. "We are conducting an external search for a new CFO."
About Pall Corporation
Pall Corporation (NYSE: PLL) is a filtration, separation and purification leader providing solutions to meet the critical fluid management needs of customers across the broad spectrum of life sciences and industry. Pall works with customers to advance health, safety and environmentally responsible technologies. The company's engineered products enable process and product innovation and minimize emissions and waste. Pall Corporation is an S&P 500 company serving customers worldwide. Pall has been named a "top green company" by
Newsweek
magazine. To see how Pall is helping enable a greener, safer, more sustainable future, follow us on Twitter @PallCorporation or visit www.pall.com/green.
Contacts:
R. Brent Jones Pall Corporation Vice President, Finance investor_relations@pall.com 516-801-9871
Follow us on Twitter @pallcorporation
Doug Novarro Pall Corporation Corporate Public Relations doug_novarro@pall.com 516-801-9944
Follow us on Twitter @pallcorporation


