Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, critical accounting policies and the future impact of accounting standards that have been issued but are not yet effective. Our MD&A is presented in 20 nine sections: Overview, Strategic Initiatives, Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations, Critical Accounting Policies, New Accounting Standards, Quarterly Results and Seasonality, and Outlook for Fiscal 2005. We believe it is useful to read our MD&A in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview Best Buy Co., Inc. is a specialty retailer of consumer electronics, home office products, entertainment software, appliances and related services, with fiscal 2004 revenue of $24.5 billion. We operate two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of the operations of U.S. Best Buy and Magnolia Audio Video. U.S. Best Buy stores offer a wide variety of consumer electronics, home office products, entertainment software, appliances and related services, operating 608 stores in 48 states and the District of Columbia as of the end of fiscal 2004. Magnolia Audio Video stores offer high end audio and video products from 22 stores located in California, Washington and Oregon as of the end of fiscal 2004. Magnolia Audio Video was acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. The International segment was established in connection with our acquisition of Future Shop in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. At the end of fiscal 2004, the International segment consisted of 108 Future Shop stores operating throughout all Canadian provinces and 19 Canadian Best Buy stores operating in Ontario, Alberta and Manitoba. Future Shop and Canadian Best Buy stores offer products similar to those offered by U.S. Best Buy stores. In support of our retail store operations, we also operate Geek Squad, a provider of in home computer repair and service, Web sites for each brand (BestBuy.com, BestBuyCanada.ca, FutureShop.ca, MagnoliaAV.com and GeekSquad.com), as well as an outlet store on eBay. Sale of Musicland Business On June 16, 2003, we sold our interest in Musicland to an affiliate of Sun Capital Partners Inc. The affiliate of Sun Capital Partners Inc. assumed all of Musiclands liabilities, including approximately $500 million in lease obligations, in exchange for all of the capital stock of Musicland, and paid no cash consideration. The transaction also resulted in the transfer of all of Musiclands assets, other than a distribution center in Franklin, Indiana, and selected nonoperating assets. The sale of our interest in Musicland resulted in an after tax loss on the disposal of discontinued operations totaling $66 million. In connection with the sale, Musicland is purchasing transition support services from us for up to one year from the date of the sale, until Musicland is able to develop long term providers for these services. We acquired the common stock of Musicland Stores Corporation in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. The original strategy behind our Musicland acquisition was to bring Best Buys core competencies in retailing consumer electronics to new consumer segments, including segments typically underserved by our Best Buy stores. Musiclands mall based stores and rural market locations gave us access to more young people and more rural communities. In addition, we believed integrating certain administrative and support functions within our existing infrastructure could increase the overall profitability of the Musicland business. However, for a number of reasons, the Musicland business did not meet our financial objectives. First, Musicland was not as successful as we hoped in selling digital products, even at Best Buy prices, because many consumers assumed that products sold in a mall based environment were not price competitive. Second, we did not anticipate such steep and protracted declines in sales of prerecorded music or significant declines in mall traffic. Third, Musicland reduced the assortment of CDs at its stores resulting in the loss of some core customers (a 21 similar move at our Best Buy stores resulted in increased inventory turns and profits). Fourth, Musicland was successful in introducing DVD movies and video gaming at Sam Goody stores; however, these products carry a lower gross profit rate than CDs and did not provide incremental profits sufficient to make the Musicland business viable. The sale of our interest in Musicland allows us to focus on our core business, which is our primary growth and profit driver. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, see the "Discontinued Operations" section included in this MD&A, and refer to Note 2, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unless otherwise noted, the remainder of this MD&A relates only to results from continuing operations. All periods presented reflect the classification of Musiclands financial results as discontinued operations. Strategic Initiatives Our vision is to make life fun and easy for consumers. Our business strategy is to bring technology and consumers together in a retail environment that focuses on educating consumers on the features and benefits of technology and entertainment, while maximizing our overall profitability. We believe our stores offer consumers meaningful advantages in store environment, product value, product selection and customer service, all of which advance our objectives of enhancing our business model, gaining market share and improving profitability. As of the end of fiscal 2004, we operated 757 retail stores, including Best Buy stores in the United States and Canada; Future Shop stores in Canada; and Magnolia Audio Video stores in the United States. We also operate Web sites for each brand and an outlet store on eBay. During fiscal 2004, we advanced four strategic initiatives that we believe will further enhance our business model over the next several years. The four strategic initiatives are: Customer Centricity Efficient Enterprise Win the Home with Service Win in Entertainment Customer Centricity Our customers are at the core of all of our business strategies, and our customer centricity initiative is the most important of our four strategic initiatives. In short, customer centricity means winning with the customer. The customer centricity initiative includes identifying profitable customer segments, tailoring our store experience to satisfy their needs, and training our employees to think and behave as owner/operators. We believe that we can extend our competitive advantage by engaging more fully with our customers, offering them broader and deeper assortments than our competitors, and supporting their shopping experiences with a full array of services. Our goal is to maximize every customer touch point, including store visits, phone calls, online visits and in home visits. During fiscal 2004, we tested our customer centricity platform at 32 of our existing U.S. Best Buy stores by focusing on five specific customer segments. These stores collectively led the Company in terms of comparable store sales gains for fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2005, we plan to develop a strategy for scaling customer centricity, based on the customer segments with the highest return on invested capital, and then expand this initiative by converting up to 110 additional existing U.S. Best Buy stores. In addition, during fiscal 2004 we launched Reward Zone, a customer loyalty program through which customers earn award certificates based on purchases. The program attracted more than 2.5 million members in fiscal 2004, and we expect to gain valuable customer insights from this program in the future. Efficient Enterprise The purpose of our efficient enterprise initiative is to reduce our cost structure, increase our speed to 22 market and improve the returns we achieve on our capital investments. Ultimately, we have a goal of increasing our operating income rate to 7% of revenue by fiscal 2007, while continuing to deliver double digit revenue growth. We improved our operating income rate by 0.5% of revenue for fiscal 2004 to 5.3% of revenue, reflecting leverage associated with a strong comparable store sales gain, the opening of new stores and efficient enterprise initiatives. For example, we increased productivity and lowered the cost of building new stores. In the coming year, we plan to implement changes to our corporate and field organizations in order to prepare for customer centricity and boost productivity. To support our customer centricity initiative, we are changing from a culture of Standard Operating Platforms to a culture of Adaptive Operating Platforms. This change requires us to increase the agility and flexibility of our internal processes. We also plan to explore the increased use of third party vendors to improve our capabilities while reducing costs. Win the Home with Service Our customers technology needs are becoming more complex with the rapid development of new products. In addition, consumers wish to manage their movies, music, photographs and games centrally and to access them through multiple devices throughout their home. Our win the home with service initiative focuses on creating a market leadership position in delivering lifestyle based solutions for our customers. We are committed to selling, installing and supporting technologies that create an integrated digital home. We believe this approach will differentiate us from many of our competitors who sell technology products, but do not provide installation and support services. Our goal is to create a life long relationship with our customers and deliver to them a broad product selection, home integration capabilities, service and technology upgrades. We expanded the Geek Squad, our 24 hour rapid response computer support task force, to a total of seven markets during fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2005, we plan to roll out this service to a majority of our U.S. Best Buy stores. Our goal is to make the Geek Squad North Americas largest provider of in home computer repair and installation services. We also plan to integrate this service with the existing computer support staff in our stores, who will be given additional training and re branded with the Geek Squad logo. We also intend to expand our in home integration services and to explore additional opportunities within the services industry. Win in Entertainment Our fourth strategic initiative is focused on gaining market share in the rapidly changing entertainment category. This category includes music, movies, video game hardware and software, computer software, subscriptions and other related products. The development and delivery of entertainment products have undergone significant changes in recent years. Our win in entertainment initiative includes supporting the development and delivery of new entertainment related products through multiple distribution channels and increasing our market share. We want to be the consumers preferred choice when purchasing entertainment products. In support of this initiative, we increased our CD in stock levels in fiscal 2004 and modestly increased the amount of labor in our music departments. We also introduced new entertainment products, including online entertainment services and magazine subscriptions. Finally, we offered an exclusive DVD from the Rolling Stones. We believe we gained market share in entertainment as a result of these efforts. In fiscal 2005, we anticipate continuing to enhance our entertainment assortments and to pursue exclusive arrangements. Results of Operations Fiscal 2004 Summary Earnings from continuing operations increased 29% to $800 million, or $2.44 per diluted share, compared with $622 million, or $1.91 per diluted share, for fiscal 2003. The increase in earnings from continuing operations was driven by an increase in revenue, including a comparable 23 store sales gain of 7.1%; an improved gross profit rate; and a decrease in our selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) rate. Revenue increased 17% to $24.5 billion, compared with $20.9 billion for the prior fiscal year. The increase reflected market share gains and was driven by the addition of 78 new stores in the past 12 months, a full of year of revenue from stores added in fiscal 2003, a 7.1% comparable store sales increase and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our gross profit rate increased 0.2% of revenue to 25.2% of revenue, up from 25.0% of revenue for fiscal 2003. The increase was primarily due to gross profit rate improvements within our product categories and a more effective use of promotions in the Domestic segment compared with the prior fiscal year. These factors were partially offset by costs associated with Reward Zone, our customer loyalty program introduced during the second quarter of fiscal 2004; the increase of the home office category in the revenue mix, as that product category carries a lower gross profit rate; and a more promotional environment in the International segment compared with the prior fiscal year. Our SG&A rate declined 0.3% of revenue to 19.9% of revenue, down from 20.2% of revenue for the prior fiscal year. The SG&A rate improvement was primarily due to expense leverage from the 7.1% comparable store sales gain and the addition of 78 new stores, and the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative. Our fiscal 2004 SG&A rate also benefited from a one time gain associated with the sale of stock received in connection with a vendor co marketing agreement. These factors were partially offset by increased performance based incentive compensation as a result of our improved year over year financial performance and restricted stock grants awarded pursuant to our new long term incentive compensation program. Other offsetting factors included spending on our customer centricity initiative, reduced funding from vendor alliance programs and technology asset impairment charges. In October 2003, our Board of Directors declared the Companys first ever cash dividends, including a special dividend of $0.30 per share of outstanding common stock, and the initiation of a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share of outstanding common stock. During fiscal 2004, we made two dividend payments of approximately $130 million in the aggregate. Also in October 2003, we announced our intent to resume purchasing shares of our common stock pursuant to the $400 million share repurchase program authorized by the Companys Board of Directors in fiscal 2000. During fiscal 2004, we purchased and retired 1.8 million shares at a cost of $100 million. 24 Consolidated Results The following table presents selected consolidated financial data for each of the past three fiscal years ($ in millions, except per share amounts): Consolidated Performance Summary 2004 2003 As Adjusted 2002(1) 2002 Revenue $ 24,547 $ 20,946 $ 18,506 $ 17,711 Revenue % change 17 % 13 % NA 17 % Comparable stores sales % change(2) 7.1 % 2.4 % NA 1.9 % Gross profit as a % of revenue 25.2 % 25.0 % 24.9 % 21.3 % SG&A as a % of revenue 19.9 % 20.2 % 20.0 % 16.2 % Operating income $ 1,304 $ 1,010 $ 903 $ 908 Operating income as a % of revenue 5.3 % 4.8 % 4.9 % 5.1 % Earnings from continuing operations $ 800 $ 622 $ 564 $ 570 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (95 ) (441 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net of tax (82 ) Net earnings 705 99 564 570 Diluted earnings per share continuing operations $ 2.44 $ 1.91 $ 1.75 $ 1.77 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.15 $ 0.30 $ 1.75 $ 1.77 Note: All periods presented reflect the classification of Musiclands financial results as discontinued operations. (1) As adjusted data conforms the accounting for vendor allowances to the method adopted in fiscal 2003 and is reflected as if Future Shop had been acquired at the beginning of fiscal 2002. As adjusted data is unaudited. (2) Comprised of revenue at stores and Internet sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of acquisition. The calculation of the comparable store sales percentage change excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we refined our methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change. It now reflects the impact of non point of sale (non POS) revenue transactions. We refined our comparable store sales calculation methodology in light of changes in our business. Previously, our comparable store sales calculation was based on store POS revenue. The comparable store sales change for fiscal 2004 has been computed based on the refined methodology. The comparable store sales changes for prior fiscal years have not been computed using the refined methodology. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change did not impact previously reported revenue, earnings or cash flows. Continuing Operations Fiscal 2004 Results Compared With Fiscal 2003 Earnings from continuing operations were $800 million for fiscal 2004, or $2.44 per diluted share, a 29% increase from $622 million, or $1.91 per diluted share, for fiscal 2003. The increase in earnings from continuing operations was primarily driven by an increase in revenue, including a comparable store sales gain of 7.1%, and improvements in both our gross profit rate and our SG&A rate. Revenue for fiscal 2004 increased 17% to $24.5 billion, compared with $20.9 billion for fiscal 2003. The revenue increase resulted from the addition of 60 U.S. Best Buy, 11 Canadian Best Buy, four Future Shop and three Magnolia Audio Video stores in the past 12 months; a full year of revenue from new stores added in fiscal 2003; and a 7.1% comparable store sales gain. The addition of new stores during the past two fiscal years accounted for approximately half of the revenue increase for fiscal 2004; the comparable store sales gain accounted for approximately two fifths of the revenue increase for the current fiscal year; and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for the remainder of the revenue increase. The fiscal 2004 comparable store sales gain was driven by an improved economic environment, including increased consumer 25 confidence, demand for digital products and effective advertising and promotional campaigns. These factors led to higher customer traffic in our stores and contributed to our market share gains during fiscal 2004. Products having the largest impact on our fiscal 2004 comparable store sales gain included computers, digital televisions, digital cameras and accessories, DVD movies, MP3 players, CDs and digital camcorders. The increase in computers reflects market share gains as well as customers increased desire to upgrade their home computers for managing their music, movies, photos and games. The increase in digital products reflects the continued consumer migration to, and increased affordability of, digital products. Our gross profit rate improved to 25.2% of revenue for fiscal 2004, a 0.2% of revenue increase compared with 25.0% of revenue for fiscal 2003. The increase in the gross profit rate was primarily due to gross profit rate improvements within our product categories and a more effective use of promotions in the Domestic segment compared with the prior fiscal year. The improvements in the gross profit rates within our product categories resulted from specific initiatives, including reducing markdowns, improving product assortments and developing more effective promotions. These factors were partially offset by costs associated with Reward Zone, our new customer loyalty program, and the increase of the home office category in the revenue mix, as that product category carries a lower gross profit rate. We also experienced a more promotional environment in the International segment compared with fiscal 2003. During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, we launched Reward Zone, our new customer loyalty program. At the end of fiscal 2004, we had more than 2.5 million Reward Zone members. Under the terms of the program, members earn points for each qualifying purchase completed at U.S. Best Buy stores. After accumulating the required point total, members are awarded a certificate that may be redeemed on future purchases. Certificates awarded to Reward Zone members expire 90 days after issuance. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 00 22, Accounting for "Points" and Certain Other Time Based or Volume Based Sales Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products or Services to Be Delivered in the Future, the value of points earned by Reward Zone members are recorded as a liability and a reduction of revenue. The value of points earned by our loyalty program members are included as a liability and a reduction of revenue at the time the points are earned based on the percentage of points that are projected to be redeemed. The value of points earned by Reward Zone members reduced fiscal 2004 gross profit and operating income by approximately 0.3% of revenue. Revenue, gross profit rates and earnings in future periods will continue to reflect points earned, adjusted for our actual redemption experience. Because we do not include all costs of our distribution facilities in cost of goods sold, our gross profit and gross profit rate may not be comparable to those of other retailers that include all costs related to their distribution facilities in cost of goods sold and in the calculation of gross profit. Our SG&A rate decreased 0.3% of revenue to 19.9% of revenue for fiscal 2004, compared with 20.2% of revenue for fiscal 2003. The decrease in the SG&A rate was primarily due to expense leverage (as revenue increased at a faster rate than operating expenses) from the 7.1% comparable store sales gain and the addition of 78 new stores, and the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative. Our fiscal 2004 SG&A rate also benefited from a one time gain of approximately $5 million, before tax, associated with the sale of stock received in connection with a vendor co marketing agreement. In addition, our fiscal 2004 SG&A rate benefited from the absence of certain costs incurred during fiscal 2003, including lease termination and asset impairment charges associated with vacating our previous corporate facilities in connection with the relocation to our new corporate campus, as well as various expenses in our International segment to support 26 strategic initiatives, including the launch of Best Buy stores in Canada and outside consulting expenses intended to improve the future efficiency and profitability of our International segment. These factors were partially offset by increased performance based incentive compensation as a result of our improved year over year financial performance and restricted stock grants awarded pursuant to our new long term incentive compensation program, as well as spending on our customer centricity initiative. Other offsetting factors included reduced funding received from vendor alliance programs and technology asset impairment charges. In August 2003, we launched a new long term incentive program for approximately 2,300 U.S. employees designed to help us attract and retain the best employees and to better align employee interests with those of our shareholders. The new program is expected to result in less shareholder dilution for existing shareholders. Under the terms of the new program, which began in November 2003, eligible employees received a mix of restricted stock and stock options. Shares of restricted stock vest at the end of a three year incentive period based on our total return to shareholders compared with companies that comprise the S&P 500 over the same three year period. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, compensation expense under the new program is recognized each reporting period based on the number of shares expected to ultimately vest, our stock price and the vesting period. For fiscal 2004, we recognized $5 million, before tax, in compensation expense associated with restricted stock awards granted pursuant to the new long term incentive program. Stock options issued pursuant to the long term incentive program are also accounted for in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, consistent with the accounting treatment for stock options previously granted pursuant to our stock option plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense is recognized for stock options as the exercise price equals the stock price on the date of grant. Fiscal 2003 Results Compared With Fiscal 2002 As Adjusted The discussion and analysis of fiscal 2003 results compared with fiscal 2002 results as adjusted conforms the accounting for vendor allowances to the method adopted in fiscal 2003 and reflects Future Shop as if it had been acquired at the beginning of fiscal 2002. As adjusted information is unaudited. Earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2003 increased 10% to $622 million, or $1.91 per diluted share, compared with $564 million, or $1.75 per diluted share, for fiscal 2002 on an as adjusted basis. The increase in earnings from continuing operations was primarily driven by a 13% increase in revenue and a slight improvement in the gross profit rate, partially offset by a higher SG&A rate. Fiscal 2003 revenue increased to $20.9 billion, compared with fiscal 2002 as adjusted revenue of $18.5 billion. Approximately four fifths of the increase in revenue for fiscal 2003 was due to the opening of 67 U.S. Best Buy, eight Canadian Best Buy and nine Future Shop stores during fiscal 2003, and a full year of revenue from new stores opened in fiscal 2002. The remainder of the increase was due to the 2.4% comparable store sales gain. Our gross profit rate for fiscal 2003 increased slightly to 25.0% of revenue, versus 24.9% of revenue for the prior fiscal year on an as adjusted basis. The improvement in the gross profit rate was primarily due to selling a more profitable revenue mix at U.S. Best Buy stores, including increased revenue from higher margin digital products, partially offset by a more promotional environment in fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002. Our SG&A rate was 20.2% of revenue for fiscal 2003, an increase of 0.2% of revenue over the prior fiscal years as adjusted rate of 20.0% of revenue. The increase in the SG&A rate was primarily due to increased expenses in our International segment to support strategic initiatives, including the launch of Best Buy stores in Canada and outside consulting expenses 27 intended to improve the future efficiency and profitability of our International segment. The SG&A rate also increased due to the deleveraging effect of a modest comparable store sales increase, as operating expenses increased at a faster rate than comparable store sales. In addition, the SG&A rate was negatively impacted by higher consulting expenses, increased depreciation expenses related to technology investments, and lease termination and asset impairment charges associated with vacating existing corporate facilities in connection with the relocation to our new corporate campus in fiscal 2004. The increase in the SG&A rate was partially offset by expense saving initiatives implemented in the second half of fiscal 2003, reduced performance based incentive compensation and expense leverage from opening new stores in existing markets. Segment Performance Domestic The following table presents selected financial data for the Domestic segment for each of the past three fiscal years ($ in millions): Segment Performance Summary (unaudited) 2004 2003 As Adjusted 2002(1) 2002 Revenue $ 22,225 $ 19,303 $ 17,115 $ 17,115 Comparable stores sales % change(2) 7.4 % 2.4 % 1.9 % 1.9 % Gross profit as a % of revenue 25.3 % 25.0 % 24.9 % 21.2 % SG&A as a % of revenue 19.6 % 19.8 % 19.8 % 16.0 % Operating income $ 1,267 $ 1,002 $ 876 $ 886 Operating income as a % of revenue 5.7 % 5.2 % 5.1 % 5.2 % Note: All periods presented reflect the classification of Musiclands financial results as discontinued operations. (1) As adjusted data conforms the accounting for vendor allowances to the method adopted in fiscal 2003. (2) Comprised of revenue at stores and Internet sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of acquisition. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we refined our methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change. It now reflects the impact of non point of sale (non POS) revenue transactions. We refined our comparable store sales calculation methodology in light of changes in our business. Previously, our comparable store sales calculation was based on store POS revenue. The comparable store sales change for fiscal 2004 has been computed based on the refined methodology. The comparable store sales changes for prior fiscal years have not been computed using the refined methodology. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change did not impact previously reported revenue, earnings or cash flows. Domestic operating income increased 27% to $1.3 billion, or 5.7% of revenue, for fiscal 2004, compared with $1.0 billion, or 5.2% of revenue, for fiscal 2003. The improvement in the Domestic segment operating income rate for fiscal 2004 was driven by revenue gains, including a 7.4% comparable store sales increase; an improvement in the gross profit rate of 0.3% of revenue; and a decrease in the SG&A rate of 0.2% of revenue. Domestic revenue increased to $22.2 billion for fiscal 2004, a 15% increase over fiscal 2003 revenue of $19.3 billion. Slightly more than half of the revenue increase for fiscal 2004 was due to new stores added in the past two fiscal years. The remainder of the revenue increase for fiscal 2004 was attributable to the 7.4% comparable store sales gain. Our fiscal 2004 comparable store sales gain was driven by an improved economic environment, including increased consumer confidence; demand for, and increased affordability of, digital products; and effective advertising and promotional strategies, all of which led to higher customer traffic in our stores and on our Web sites. These factors also contributed to our market share gains during fiscal 2004. The home office, consumer 28 electronics and entertainment software product categories experienced comparable store sales gains for fiscal 2004, while appliances posted a modest decline in comparable store sales. The home office category posted a low double digit comparable store sales gain for the fiscal year primarily driven by sales of personal computers, MP3 players and computer networking products, partially offset by softer sales of PDAs, computer accessories and scanners. The increase in revenue from notebook computers and computer networking products reflects customers growing preference for portability, while the increase in desktop computers reflects customers increased desire to upgrade their home computers. A mid single digit comparable store sales gain in the consumer electronics category was primarily driven by sales of digital televisions, digital cameras and digital camcorders, reflecting continued consumer migration to, and increased affordability of, digital products, partially offset by declines in sales of analog televisions and camcorders, as well as VCRs. The entertainment software category also had a mid single digit comparable store sales gain for fiscal 2004, fueled by new releases and our improved assortments in both DVD movies and CDs, partially offset by a double digit comparable store sales decline in video game hardware. Despite improving trends in appliances throughout fiscal 2004, the category posted a modest comparable store sales decline for the fiscal year. Increased assortments in higher end laundry products, refrigerators and dishwashers, as well as effective promotions in the second half of fiscal 2004, were more than offset by softer sales during the first half of fiscal 2004. The Domestic gross profit rate increased to 25.3% of revenue for fiscal 2004, an improvement of 0.3% of revenue compared with 25.0% of revenue for the prior fiscal year. The increase in the gross profit rate was primarily due to gross profit rate improvements within our product categories and a more effective use of promotions compared with the prior fiscal year. The improvements in the gross profit rates within our product categories resulted from specific initiatives, including reducing markdowns, improving product assortments and developing more effective promotions. These factors were partially offset by costs associated with Reward Zone and the increase of the home office category in the revenue mix, as that product category carries a lower gross profit rate. The fiscal 2004 SG&A rate for the Domestic segment was 19.6% of revenue, a decrease of 0.2% of revenue from 19.8% of revenue for the prior fiscal year. The SG&A rate benefited from expense leverage resulting from the 7.4% comparable store sales gain, the addition of 60 U.S. Best Buy stores and three Magnolia Audio Video stores in the past 12 months, a full year of revenue from stores added in fiscal 2003, the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative and a one time gain of approximately $5 million, before tax, associated with the sale of stock received in connection with a vendor co marketing agreement. In addition, the Domestic segments SG&A rate for fiscal 2004 also benefited from the absence of certain costs incurred during fiscal 2003, including lease termination and asset impairment charges associated with vacating our previous corporate facilities in connection with the relocation to our new corporate campus. These factors were partially offset by increased performance based incentive compensation as a result of our improved year over year financial performance and restricted stock grants awarded pursuant to our new long term incentive compensation program, reduced funding received from vendor alliance programs, expenses associated with our customer centricity initiative and technology asset impairment charges. 29  The following table reconciles Domestic stores open at the beginning and end of fiscal 2004: Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2003 Stores Opened Stores Closed Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2004 U.S. Best Buy stores 548 60 608 Magnolia Audio Video stores 19 3 22 Total 567 63 630 The following table reconciles Domestic stores open at the beginning and end of fiscal 2003: Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2002 Stores Opened Stores Closed Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2003 U.S. Best Buy stores 481 67 548 Magnolia Audio Video stores 13 6 19 Total 494 73 567 During fiscal 2004, we opened 60 U.S. Best Buy stores, remodeled three U.S. Best Buy stores and relocated four other U.S. Best Buy stores. At the end of fiscal 2004, we operated 608 U.S. Best Buy stores in 48 states and the District of Columbia. Magnolia Audio Video opened three new stores during fiscal 2004 and operated 22 stores in California, Washington and Oregon at the end of fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2004, Magnolia Audio Video remodeled one store. International The following table presents selected financial data for the International segment for each of the past three fiscal years ($ in millions): Segment Performance Summary (unaudited) 2004 2003 As Adjusted 2002(1) 2002(2) Revenue $ 2,322 $ 1,643 $ 1,391 $ 596 Comparable stores sales % change(3) 4.7 % 4.3 % NA 17.4 % Gross profit as a % of revenue 24.3 % 25.0 % 25.0 % 23.4 % SG&A as a % of revenue 22.7 % 24.5 % 23.1 % 19.7 % Operating income $ 37 $ 8 $ 27 $ 22 Operating income as a % of revenue 1.6 % 0.5 % 1.9 % 3.7 % (1) As adjusted data conforms the accounting for vendor allowances to the method adopted in fiscal 2003 and is reflected as if Future Shop had been acquired at the beginning of fiscal 2002. (2) Reflects results of operations of Future Shop subsequent to its acquisition in November of fiscal 2002. (3) Comprised of revenue at stores and Internet sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of acquisition. The calculation of the comparable store sales percentage change excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we refined our methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change. It now reflects the impact of non point of sale (non POS) revenue transactions. We refined our comparable store sales calculation methodology in light of changes in our business. Previously, our comparable store sales calculation was based on store POS revenue. The comparable store sales change for fiscal 2004 has been computed based on the refined methodology. The comparable store sales changes for prior fiscal years have not been computed using the refined methodology. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change did not impact previously reported revenue, earnings or cash flows. 30 The International segment generated operating income of $37 million for fiscal 2004, compared with $8 million for the prior fiscal year. Approximately one quarter of the increase in operating income for fiscal 2004 was due to the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The remainder of the increase in operating income was primarily due to revenue gains, including a 4.7% comparable store sales increase for the fiscal year, and an improved SG&A rate, and was partially offset by a decrease in the gross profit rate. International revenue increased 41% to $2.3 billion for fiscal 2004, compared with $1.6 billion last fiscal year. The effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for approximately half of the revenue increase for the fiscal year. New store additions in the past two fiscal years accounted for approximately two fifths of the revenue increase, and the 4.7% comparable store sales gain accounted for the remainder. The comparable store sales gain reflected market share gains and was driven by increased revenue from digital televisions, digital cameras, DVD movies and notebook computers. The International gross profit rate was 24.3% of revenue for fiscal 2004, a decrease from 25.0% of revenue for the prior fiscal year. The decline in the gross profit rate was primarily due to increased promotional activity compared with the prior fiscal year, including higher customer financing expenses. In response to the opening of Best Buy stores in Canada, our competitors in the International segment increased their promotional offerings, resulting in additional pressure on our gross profit rate. The SG&A rate for the International segment declined to 22.7% of revenue for fiscal 2004, compared with 24.5% of revenue for the prior fiscal year. The SG&A rate decrease for fiscal 2004 was primarily due to expense leverage resulting from new store openings and the 4.7% comparable store sales gain, as well as the absence of certain expenses incurred during fiscal 2003, including expenses associated with launching Canadian Best Buy stores and outside consulting expenses intended to improve the future efficiency and profitability of International operations. Also, the International SG&A rate was positively affected by favorable settlements related to previously established legal and location closing liabilities, which did not have a significant affect on fiscal 2004 earnings from continuing operations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we completed our annual impairment testing of the goodwill and tradename recorded in our International segment. Based on expectations for the business and the prevailing retail environment, we determined that no impairment existed. However, if unanticipated events adversely impact this segment for an extended period of time, it could result in future impairment charges. In addition, the value recorded for the Future Shop tradename is based on the continuation of the Future Shop brand in Canada. If we ever were to abandon the Future Shop tradename, it would result in future impairment charges. The following table reconciles International stores open at the beginning and end of fiscal 2004: Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2003 Stores Opened Stores Closed Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2004 Future Shop stores 104 4 108 Canadian Best Buy stores 8 11 19 Total 112 15 127 31 The following table reconciles International stores open at the beginning and end of fiscal 2003: Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2002 Stores Opened Stores Closed Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2003 Future Shop stores 95 9 104 Canadian Best Buy stores 8 8 Total 95 17 112 During fiscal 2004, we opened four and relocated five Future Shop stores. At the end of fiscal 2004, we operated 108 Future Shop stores throughout all Canadian provinces. We also opened 11 Canadian Best Buy stores during fiscal 2004, including our first such stores in Alberta and Manitoba. At the end of fiscal 2004, we operated 19 Canadian Best Buy stores in Ontario, Alberta and Manitoba. Discontinued Operations For fiscal 2004, the sale of our interest in Musicland resulted in an after tax loss on the disposal of discontinued operations totaling $66 million. The results of discontinued operations for fiscal 2004 are included through the date of the sale, June 16, 2003. Fiscal 2003 results from discontinued operations are for the entire fiscal year. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 2, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The results from discontinued operations for the past three fiscal years are as follows ($ in millions): Discontinued Operations Performance Summary (unaudited) 2004 2003 As Adjusted 2002(1) 2002 Revenue $ 354 $ 1,727 $ 1,886 $ 1,886 Operating (loss) income (46 ) (238 ) 31 29 Interest expense (6 ) (20 ) (19 ) (Loss) earnings before income tax (benefit) expense (46 ) (244 ) 11 10 Income tax (benefit) expense(2) (17 ) (119 ) 11 10 Loss before loss on disposal of discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes (29 ) (125 ) Loss on disposal of discontinued operations, net of $0 tax(3) (66 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net of $5 tax(4) (316 ) Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (95 ) $ (441 ) $ $ (1) As adjusted data conforms the accounting for vendor allowances to the method adopted in fiscal 2003. (2) Fiscal 2003 included a $25 million tax benefit resulting from the differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes at acquisition, which were expected to be realized upon the disposition of Musicland. (3) In fiscal 2004, based on the terms of the sale of our interest in Musicland, we determined that the nature of our future taxable income may not allow us to realize the $25 million deferred tax asset recorded in fiscal 2003 and have provided a full valuation allowance. (4) In the first quarter of fiscal 2003, we recorded an after tax, non cash impairment charge of $308 million for the full write off of goodwill related to our acquisition of Musicland, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which was adopted effective on March 3, 2002. In addition, we recorded an after tax, non cash charge of $8 million for the change in our method of accounting for vendor allowances in accordance with EITF No. 02 16, Accounting by a Reseller for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor. 32 Additional Consolidated Results Net Interest (Expense) Income Net interest expense increased to $8 million for fiscal 2004, compared with net interest income of $4 million for fiscal 2003. The increase in net interest expense was primarily a result of the allocation of interest expense to discontinued operations for fiscal 2003. In addition, net interest expense increased approximately $4 million for fiscal 2004 as a result of interest expense related to the construction of our new corporate campus that was capitalized during fiscal 2003. Net interest income decreased to $4 million for fiscal 2003, compared with $18 million for fiscal 2002. The decrease in net interest income was primarily due to lower yields on short term investments and a full year of interest expense associated with convertible debentures issued during fiscal 2002. For additional information regarding net interest (expense) income, refer to Note 6, Net Interest (Expense) Income, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Effective Income Tax Rate Our effective income tax rate decreased to 38.3% for fiscal 2004, compared with 38.7% for fiscal 2003. The decrease in the effective income tax rate for fiscal 2004 was mainly due to our lower effective state income tax rate for the current fiscal year. Our effective income tax rate increased to 38.7% for fiscal 2003, up from 38.4% for fiscal 2002. The increase in the effective income tax rate for fiscal 2003 was primarily due to increased tax expense related to our International segment and a slight increase in the effective state income tax rate. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The impact of inflation and changing prices has not been material to our revenue or earnings from continuing operations in any of the last three fiscal years. Highly competitive market conditions and the general economic environment minimized inflations impact on the selling prices of our products. Liquidity and Capital Resources Summary We ended fiscal 2004 with $2.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents, an increase from $1.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2003. Working capital, the excess of current assets over current liabilities, increased to $1.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2004, compared with $1.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2003. Cash Flows Cash provided by operating activities was $1.4 billion for fiscal 2004, compared with $746 million for fiscal 2003 and $1.5 billion for fiscal 2002. The improvement in operating cash flows for fiscal 2004, compared with the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to an increase in cash provided from changes in operating assets and liabilities, as well as increased earnings from continuing operations. Earnings from continuing operations increased to $800 million for fiscal 2004, compared with $622 million for fiscal 2003. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were substantially due to changes in accounts payable, other liabilities and accrued income taxes, partially offset by increased merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories increased in fiscal 2004, primarily due to the addition of new stores and changes in product mix, including expanded assortments of digital televisions and notebook computers. In addition, the increased inventory levels reflected our efforts to improve in stock positions in product categories that have been driving our revenue growth. The increase in accounts payable was primarily due to the increase in inventory, the timing of vendor payments and increased business volume. Other liabilities increased primarily due to growth in the business, higher performance based incentive compensation as a result of our improved year over year operating performance and increased payroll withholdings associated with our new employee stock purchase plan. Accrued income taxes increased primarily due to higher income taxes resulting from the increase in 33 earnings from continuing operations, partially offset by tax benefits resulting from the sale of our interest in Musicland. Cash used in investing activities was $543 million for fiscal 2004, compared with $659 million and $924 million for fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, respectively. The decrease for fiscal 2004 was primarily a result of a decrease in additions to property and equipment. Refer to the "Capital Expenditures" section of this MD&A for additional information. In fiscal 2004, we used cash for the construction of new retail locations, information systems, distribution center improvements, and other additions to property and equipment, including the completion of our new corporate campus. The primary purposes of the cash investment activity were to support our expansion plans, to improve our operational efficiency and to enhance shareholder value. Cash used in financing activities was $133 million for fiscal 2004, compared with cash provided by financing activities of $45 million for fiscal 2003 and $769 million for fiscal 2002. The change from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 was primarily due to the payment of cash dividends and repurchases of our common stock during fiscal 2004, partially offset by increased proceeds from the issuance of common stock in connection with our equity based compensation programs. We made two dividend payments totaling approximately $130 million during fiscal 2004. In addition, during fiscal 2004, we repurchased $100 million of our common stock pursuant to the stock purchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in fiscal 2000. Net cash used in discontinued operations was $53 million for fiscal 2004, compared with $79 million for fiscal 2003 and $270 million for fiscal 2002. Net cash used in discontinued operations decreased for fiscal 2004, as compared with fiscal 2003, due to the sale of our interest in Musicland during the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Sources of Liquidity Funds generated by operating activities and available cash and cash equivalents continue to be our most significant sources of liquidity. We believe funds generated from the expected results of operations and available cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to finance anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives for the next fiscal year. In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs or investment opportunities. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to generate cash flows at or above current levels or that we will be able to maintain our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facilities. We have a $200 million unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to expire in March 2005, of which $197 million was available at February 28, 2004. Outstanding letters of credit reduced the amount available under this facility. No borrowings were made under this facility during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002. We also have inventory financing lines totaling $210 million that allow us to extend the due dates of merchandise invoices beyond their normal terms. At February 28, 2004, $140 million was available for use under these facilities. Outstanding merchandise invoices reduced the amounts available under these facilities. In March 2004, we entered into a $19 million unsecured revolving demand facility related to our International operations, of which $4 million is only available on a seasonal basis from August through January of each year. This facility replaced a $41 million unsecured credit facility which was cancelled on March 1, 2004. There were no borrowings outstanding under the $41 million facility at February 28, 2004. We offer our customers extended financing through a third party financial institution. The use of financing encourages consumers to purchase selected products and promotes our business. The third party institution assumes the risk of collection from our customers and has no recourse against 34 us for any uncollectible amounts. Generally, these financing offers allow customers to purchase products with repayment terms ranging from 90 days to 18 months without a finance charge. Our contract with the third party financial institution extends through January 2009. If the contract were to be unexpectedly terminated or canceled, we believe we could contract with an alternative third party financial institution or directly provide our customers with extended financing. Our credit ratings as of February 28, 2004, were as follows: Rating Agency Rating Outlook Fitch(1) BBB Stable Moodys Baa3 Stable Standard & Poors(2) BBB Stable (1) Fitch Ratings affirmed its BBB rating and Stable outlook in September 2003. Fitch stated that its ratings reflected our strong customer acceptance and market share, solid operating margins and liquid balance sheet. These factors were balanced against the cyclical nature of the consumer electronics industry. (2) Standard & Poors Ratings Services revised its outlook to Stable from Negative in June 2003. The revised outlook issued by Standard & Poors Ratings Services reflects our divestiture of Musicland, no expected significant acquisition activity and positive comparable store sales trends. Factors that can impact our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the retail and consumer electronics industries, our financial position and changes in our business strategy. We do not currently foresee any reasonable circumstances under which our credit ratings would be significantly downgraded. If a downgrade were to occur, it could adversely impact, among other things, our future borrowing costs, access to capital markets, vendor financing terms and future new store occupancy costs. In addition, the conversion rights of the holders of our convertible debentures could be accelerated if our credit ratings were to be downgraded. Capital Expenditures A component of our long term strategy is our capital expenditure program. This program includes, among other things, investments in new stores, store remodeling, store relocations and expansions, new distribution facilities and information technology enhancements. During fiscal 2004, we invested $545 million in property and equipment, including opening 78 new stores; remodeling, relocating and or expanding 13 stores; and improving our distribution centers and information systems. We plan to invest approximately $700 million in property and equipment during fiscal 2005. We expect to open approximately 73 new stores in the United States and Canada; remodel, relocate and or expand some of our older stores in key strategic markets; complete the construction of our new Ardmore, Oklahoma, distribution center; complete the expansion of our Brampton, Ontario, distribution center and make other infrastructure investments to support the business. Capital expenditures are funded through cash provided by operating activities, as well as available cash and cash equivalents. Refer to the "Outlook for Fiscal 2005" section of this MD&A for additional information on our capital expenditure plans for fiscal 2005. The following table presents our cash capital expenditures for each of the past three fiscal years ($ in millions): Fiscal Year 2004 2003 2002 New stores $ 215 $ 219 $ 194 Store related projects(1) 111 96 69 Corporate campus(2) 29 131 107 Information technology 112 185 153 Other 78 94 58 Total cash capital expenditures(3) $ 545 $ 725 $ 581 (1) Includes store remodels, relocations and or expansions, as well as various merchandising projects. (2) Construction of our new corporate campus was completed during fiscal 2004. (3) Excludes cash paid for acquisitions. Debt and Capital In fiscal 2002, we sold convertible debentures due June 27, 2021, and January 15, 2022, with an initial principal amount at maturity of $492 million and 35 a principal amount of $402 million, respectively. The proceeds from the offerings, net of offering expenses, were $726 million. We may redeem, and holders of the debentures may require us to purchase, all or part of the debentures on certain dates or upon the occurrence of certain events as specified in the respective indentures. In addition, in the event that certain conditions are satisfied, holders may surrender their debentures for conversion, which would increase the number of shares of our common stock outstanding and have a dilutive impact on our reported earnings per share. The shares related to the convertible debentures were not included in our diluted earnings per share computation for fiscal 2004 or 2003, as the criteria for conversion of the debentures were not met. For additional information regarding the convertible debentures, refer to Note 4, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Holders of our convertible debentures due in 2021 can require us to redeem the debentures for cash effective on June 27, 2004. As a result, convertible debentures with a carrying value of $353 million have been included in the current portion of long term debt in the February 28, 2004, consolidated balance sheet. At the end of fiscal 2004, the fair market value of the convertible debentures exceeded the redemption value. Therefore, we do not currently expect, subject to changes in market conditions, that holders of the convertible debentures will exercise their redemption option during fiscal 2005 and require us to purchase these debentures. However, if market conditions change and holders of our convertible debentures due in 2021 exercise their redemption option, we believe funds generated from the expected results of operations and available cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to finance the redemption. If holders of our convertible debentures do not exercise their redemption option on June 27, 2004, their next redemption opportunity will not be until June 27, 2009. Our ability to access our credit facilities is subject to our compliance with the terms and conditions of the credit facilities, including financial covenants. The financial covenants require us to maintain certain financial ratios and a minimum net worth. As of the end of fiscal 2004, we were in compliance with all such covenants. In the event we were to default on any of our other debt, it would constitute a default under our credit facilities as well. Our decision to own or lease real estate is based on an assessment of our financial liquidity, our capital structure, our desire to own or to lease the location and the alternative that results in the highest return to our shareholders. For those sites developed using working capital, we often sell and lease back those properties under long term lease agreements. We also have a master lease program which was used for the purpose of constructing and leasing new retail locations. As of February 28, 2004, $58 million in leases related to new stores were outstanding under the master lease program. The master lease program is complete and there will be no further new store development under this program. The program is set to expire on January 1, 2006, and is renewable for one year, subject to the lenders consent. Share Repurchases and Dividends In October 2003, we announced our intent to resume purchasing shares of our common stock pursuant to a $400 million share repurchase program authorized by the Companys Board of Directors in fiscal 2000. During fiscal 2004, we purchased and retired 1.8 million shares at a cost of $100 million. No purchases were made under the stock repurchase program in either fiscal 2003 or fiscal 2002. We have purchased and retired 4.6 million shares at a cost of $200 million since the inception of the share repurchase program in fiscal 2000. We consider several factors in determining when to make share repurchases, including among other things, our cash needs and the market price of our stock. At the end of fiscal 2004, $200 million of the $400 million originally authorized by the Companys Board of Directors 36 was available for future share repurchases. There is no expiration date governing the period over which we can make our share repurchases. We expect that cash provided by future operating activities, as well as available cash and cash equivalents, will be the sources of funding for the share repurchase program. Additional information on the share repurchase program is included in Item 5, Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In October 2003, we also announced that our Board of Directors had declared the Companys first ever cash dividends, including the initiation of a regular quarterly cash dividend. A special cash dividend payment of $0.30 per common share, or approximately $97 million based on 324,804,000 common shares outstanding as of the record date, November 18, 2003, was paid on December 9, 2003. In addition, a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share, or approximately $33 million based on 324,146,000 common shares outstanding as of the record date, January 7, 2004, was paid on January 28, 2004. These two dividend payments allowed the Company to begin its desired rhythm of paying $0.40 per common share each fiscal year, subject to legal and contractual restrictions. The second regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share is payable on May 12, 2004, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 21, 2004. We plan to fund future dividend payments using cash provided by future operating activities and available cash and cash equivalents. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Other than in connection with executing operating leases, we do not have any off balance sheet financing. We finance a portion of our new store development program through sale leaseback transactions, which involve selling stores to unrelated parties and then leasing the stores back under leases that are accounted for as operating leases in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases. A summary of our operating lease obligations by fiscal year is included in the "Contractual Obligations" section below. Our debt to capitalization ratio, which represents the ratio of total debt, including the current portion of long term debt, to total capitalization (total debt plus total shareholders equity), improved to 20% at February 28, 2004, compared with 23% at March 1, 2003. We view our debt to capitalization ratio as an important indicator of our creditworthiness. Our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations (rental expense for all operating leases multiplied by eight), was 57% at the end of fiscal 2004, compared with 67% at the end of fiscal 2003. Total debt, including capitalized operating lease obligations (rental expense for all operating leases multiplied by eight), was $4.6 billion at February 28, 2004, compared with $5.5 billion at March 1, 2003. The information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K includes financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as measures that may be considered non GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys performance, financial position or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The non GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations (rental expense for all operating leases multiplied by eight), is not in accordance with, or preferable to, the ratio determined in accordance with GAAP. However, we have included this information as we believe that our adjusted debt to capitalization 37 ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations (rental expense for all operating leases multiplied by eight), is important for understanding our operations and provides meaningful additional information about our ability to service our long term debt and other fixed obligations, and to fund our future growth. In addition, we believe our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations (rental expense for all operating leases multiplied by eight), is relevant because it enables investors to compare our indebtedness to retailers who own, rather than lease, their stores. In January 2003, as directed by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC amended Item 10 of Regulation S K to provide additional guidance to registrants that include non GAAP financial measures in SEC filings. The following table presents a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations (rental expense for all operating leases multiplied by eight) ($ in millions): Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2003 Total debt (current and long term portion)(1) $ 850 $ 834 Capitalized operating lease obligations (8 times rental expense)(2) 3,746 4,680 Debt (including capitalized operating lease obligations) $ 4,596 $ 5,514 Total debt (current and long term portion)(1) $ 850 $ 834 Capitalized operating lease obligations (8 times rental expense)(2) 3,746 4,680 Total shareholders equity 3,422 2,730 Adjusted capitalization $ 8,018 $ 8,244 Debt to capitalization ratio 20 % 23 % Adjusted debt to capitalization ratio (including capitalized operating lease obligations) 57 % 67 % (1) Fiscal 2003 includes $5 million of Musicland debt. (2) Fiscal 2003 includes $1.2 billion of Musicland capitalized operating lease obligations. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations (rental expense for all operating leases multiplied by eight), is our debt to capitalization ratio. Our debt to capitalization ratio excludes capitalized operating lease obligations (rental expense for all operating leases multiplied by eight) in both the numerator and denominator of the above calculation. 38 Contractual Obligations The following table presents information regarding our contractual obligations by fiscal year ($ in millions): Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Long term debt obligations $ 776 $ 355 $ 406 $ 2 $ 13 Capital lease obligations 16 13 3 Master lease obligation 58 58 Operating lease obligations 4,654 454 815 764 2,621 Purchase obligations(1) 636 456 174 6 Deferred compensation(2) Total $ 6,140 $ 1,278 $ 1,456 $ 772 $ 2,634 Note: For more information regarding long term debt, operating leases and purchase obligations, refer to Notes 4, 7 and 11, respectively, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (1) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. Additionally, we included open purchase orders in the table above which are not legally binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and substantially all orders are fulfilled within 30 days. (2) Included in other long term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at February 28, 2004, is a $58 million obligation for deferred compensation. As the specific payment dates for the deferred compensation is unknown, related balances have not been reflected in the above table. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of the financial statements, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events, and apply judgment that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time the consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and such differences could be material. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Management believes that the following accounting policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, and they require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with our independent auditor and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. 39  Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Inventory Reserves We value our inventory at the lower of the cost of the inventory or fair market value through the establishment of markdown and inventory loss reserves. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our markdown or inventory loss reserves during the past three fiscal years. Our markdown reserve represents the excess of the carrying value, typically cost, over the amount we expect to realize from the ultimate sale or other disposal of the inventory based upon our assumptions regarding forecasted consumer demand, the promotional environment, inventory aging and technological obsolescence. Our inventory loss reserve represents anticipated physical inventory losses (e.g., theft) that occurred since the last physical inventory date. Independent physical inventory counts are taken on a regular basis to ensure that the merchandise inventory reported in our consolidated financial statements is properly stated. During the interim period between physical inventory counts, we accrue for anticipated physical inventory losses on a location by location basis, based on a number of factors, including historical results and current inventory loss trends. If our estimates regarding consumer demand are inaccurate or changes in technology affect demand for certain products in an unforeseen manner, we may be exposed to losses or gains in excess of our established markdown reserve that could be material. A 10% difference in our actual markdown reserve at February 28, 2004, would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2004. If our estimates regarding physical inventory losses are inaccurate, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. A 10% difference in actual physical inventory losses reserved for at February 28, 2004, would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2004. Long Lived Assets Long lived assets such as property and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets contained in our financial statements may not be recoverable. When evaluating long lived assets for potential impairment, we first compare the carrying value of the asset to the assets estimated future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges). If the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, we calculate an impairment loss. The impairment loss calculation compares the carrying value of the asset to the assets estimated fair value, which may be based on estimated future cash flows (discounted and with interest charges). We recognize an impairment loss if the amount of the assets carrying value exceeds the assets estimated fair value. If we recognize an impairment loss, the adjusted carrying amount of the asset will be its new cost basis. For a depreciable long lived asset, the new cost basis will be depreciated (amortized) over the remaining useful life of that asset. Restoration of a previously recognized impairment loss is prohibited. Our impairment loss calculations require management to apply judgment in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, including forecasting useful lives of the assets and selecting the discount rate that reflects the risk inherent in future cash flows. Using the impairment review methodology described herein, we recorded long lived asset impairment charges of $22 million during the fiscal year ended February 28, 2004. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, we may be exposed to additional impairment losses that could be material to our results of operations. 40 Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business combinations. The only identifiable intangible asset, other than goodwill, included in our balance sheet is an indefinite lived tradename related to our Future Shop stores. We review goodwill and the Future Shop tradename for potential impairment annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the goodwill or the Future Shop tradename might exceed their current fair value. To assist in the process of reviewing goodwill and the Future Shop tradename for impairment, we obtain appraisals from an independent valuation firm. In addition to the use of an independent valuation firm, we perform internal valuation analyses and consider other publicly available market information. We determine fair value using widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and market multiple analyses. These types of analyses require us to make assumptions and estimates regarding industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. It is our policy to conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we completed our annual impairment testing of goodwill and the Future Shop tradename using the methodology described herein, and determined there was no impairment. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to a goodwill impairment charge. The carrying value of goodwill as of February 28, 2004, was $477 million. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, or if we ever were to discontinue the use of the Future Shop tradename as a result of abandoning our dual branding strategy in Canada or otherwise, we may be exposed to an impairment charge. The carrying value of the Future Shop tradename as of February 28, 2004, was $37 million. Extended Service Contract Liability We assumed a liability for certain self insured extended service contracts when we acquired Future Shop. The terms of these extended service contracts vary by product and extend through fiscal 2007. The liability for the self insured extended service contracts is based on a number of factors, including historical trends in product failure rates and the expected material and labor costs necessary to provide the services. We use independent actuaries to assist us in establishing our extended service contract liability. The frequency and severity of repair costs are the two primary factors affecting our extended service contract liability. See Notes 1 and 11 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion regarding our accounting for extended service contracts. The accounting for self insured extended service contracts requires us to make assumptions and apply judgment when estimating product failure rates and expected material and labor costs necessary to provide the services. Periodically, management reevaluates its estimates to assess the adequacy of our extended service contract liability and adjusts the amount as necessary. If actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments used to calculate our extended service contract liability, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in the extended service contract liability at February 28, 2004, would have affected net earnings by approximately $1 million for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2004. 41 Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Costs Associated with Exit Activities We occasionally vacate stores and other locations prior to the expiration of the related lease. For vacated locations that are under long term leases, we record an expense for the difference between our future lease payments and related costs (e.g., real estate taxes and common area maintenance) from the date of closure through the end of the remaining lease term, net of expected future sublease rental income. The net cash flows are discounted using a risk free interest rate that coincides with the remaining lease term. Our estimate of future cash flows is based on historical experience; our analysis of the specific real estate market, including input from independent real estate firms; and economic conditions that can be difficult to predict. The calculation of our location closing liability requires us to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding the timing and duration of future vacancy periods, the amount and timing of future settlement payments, and the amount and timing of potential future sublease income. When making these assumptions, we consider a number of factors, including historical settlement experience, the owner of the property, the location and condition of the property, the terms of the underlying lease, the specific marketplace demand and general economic conditions. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in our location closing liability at February 28, 2004, would have resulted in an approximately $2 million change in net earnings for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2004. Self Insured Liabilities We are self insured for certain losses related to health, workers compensation and general liability insurance, although we obtain third party insurance coverage to limit our exposure to these claims. When estimating our self insurance liabilities, we consider a number of factors, including historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and valuations provided by independent third party actuaries. Periodically, management reviews its assumptions and the valuations provided by independent third party actuaries to determine the adequacy of our self insured liabilities. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our self insured liabilities during the past three years. Our self insured liabilities contain uncertainties because management must make assumptions and apply judgment to estimate the ultimate cost to settle reported claims and claims incurred but not reported as of the balance sheet date. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in our self insurance liabilities at February 28, 2004, would have affected net earnings by approximately $5 million for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2004. 42 Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Tax Contingencies Like most companies, domestic and foreign tax authorities periodically audit our income tax returns. These audits include questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposures associated with our various tax filing positions, including state and local taxes, we record reserves for probable exposures. A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have established a reserve, is audited and fully resolved. As of the end of fiscal 2004, four open tax years were undergoing examination by the United States Internal Revenue Service, and three open years with Revenue Canada. The estimate of our tax contingencies reserve contains uncertainty because management must use judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. Although management believes that the estimates and judgments discussed herein are reasonable, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which reserves have been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement would require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. A favorable tax settlement would be recognized as a reduction in our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Revenue Recognition See Note 1 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for a complete discussion of our revenue recognition policies. During fiscal 2004, we launched Reward Zone, our customer loyalty program, which allows members to earn points for each purchase completed at U.S. Best Buy stores. After earning the required point total, members are awarded a certificate that may be redeemed on future purchases. The value of points earned by members are recorded as a liability and a reduction of revenue based on the percentage of points that are projected to be redeemed. From time to time, we offer customers mail in rebates valid for a refund of a portion of the price paid for merchandise or services. Rebates are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on the percentage of rebates that are projected to be redeemed. We apply judgment in estimating the number of certificates expected to be redeemed by members of our customer loyalty program and rebate offers that will be redeemed by customers. Our estimate of the number of certificates and rebates that will be redeemed is primarily based on historical transaction experience. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in the Reward Zone and rebate liabilities at February 28, 2004, would have affected net earnings by approximately $2 million and $8 million, respectively, for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2004. 43 Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Long Term Incentive Program In fiscal 2004, we launched a new long term incentive program for certain U.S. employees designed to help us attract and retain the best employees and to better align employee interests with those of our shareholders. Under the terms of the new program, which began in November 2003, eligible employees may receive a mix of restricted stock and stock options issued pursuant to existing shareholder approved plans. Shares of restricted stock vest at the end of a three year incentive period based on our total return to shareholders compared with the Standard & Poors (S&P) 500. At the end of each fiscal quarter, we are required to estimate the percentage of restricted stock that will vest at the end of the three year incentive period in order to determine the amount of compensation expense to be recognized for the program. Our estimate for the percentage of restricted stock that will vest is based on the projected performance of our stock compared with the S&P 500 during the three year incentive period. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments, we may be exposed to changes in compensation expense that could be material. A 10% difference in the percentage of restricted stock that is projected to vest at the end of the three year incentive period would have changed the liability recorded at February 28, 2004, and net earnings for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2004, by less than a million dollars. New Accounting Standards In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation (FIN) No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, which requires the consolidation of, and disclosures about, variable interest entities (VIEs). VIEs are entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights. In December 2003, the FASB revised FIN No. 46 to incorporate all decisions, including those in previously issued FASB Staff Positions, into one Interpretation. The revised Interpretation supersedes the original Interpretation. In most circumstances, the requirements were effective immediately for all VIEs in which an interest was acquired after January 31, 2003. For variable interests in special purpose entities in which an interest was acquired before February 1, 2003, the requirements were effective for us at the end of fiscal 2004. Requirements for non special purpose entities acquired before February 1, 2003, are effective for us at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2005. FIN No. 46 has not had, and is not expected to have, a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. During fiscal year 2004, we adopted EITF Issue No. 03 10, Application of Issue 02 16 by Resellers to Sales Incentives Offered to Consumers by Manufacturers, which amends EITF No. 02 16. According to the amended guidance, if certain criteria are met, consideration received by a reseller in the form of reimbursement from a vendor for honoring the vendors sales incentives offered directly to consumers (e.g., manufacturers coupons) should not be recorded as a reduction of the cost of the resellers purchases from the vendor. The adoption of EITF No. 03 10 did not impact reported net earnings, financial position or cash flows. Quarterly Results and Seasonality Similar to many retailers, our business is seasonal. Historically, we have realized more of our revenue and earnings in the fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday selling season, than in any other fiscal quarter. The timing of new store openings, costs associated with acquisitions and development of new businesses, and general economic conditions also may affect our future quarterly results. Selected quarterly financial data is included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 44  Fourth Quarter Summary Earnings from continuing operations increased 24% to $469 million, or $1.42 per diluted share, compared with $378 million, or $1.16 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The increase in earnings from continuing operations was driven by revenue gains, including a comparable store sales increase of 9.7%, and an improved gross profit rate, and was partially offset by a modest increase in our SG&A rate. Revenue increased 21% to $8.4 billion, compared with $7.0 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, driven by a comparable store sales gain of 9.7%, the addition of 78 stores in the past 12 months and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our gross profit rate increased 0.3% of revenue to 25.4% of revenue, up from 25.1% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The increase in the gross profit rate was primarily due to gross profit rate improvements within our product categories and a more effective use of promotions in the Domestic segment compared with the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. These improvements were partially offset by costs associated with Reward Zone; the increase of the home office category in the revenue mix, as that product category carries a lower gross profit rate; and a more promotional environment in the International segment compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Our SG&A rate increased 0.1% of revenue to 16.4% of revenue, up from 16.3% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The modest SG&A rate increase was primarily due to increased performance based incentive compensation, expenses associated with our customer centricity initiative and reduced funding from vendor alliance programs. These factors were partially offset by expense leverage from a 21% increase in revenue and the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative. Consolidated The following table presents unaudited selected consolidated financial data ($ in millions, except per share amounts): Three Months Ended February 28, 2004 March 1, 2003 Revenue $ 8,449 $ 6,989 Comparable store sales % change(1) 9.7 % 1.2 % Gross profit as a % of revenue 25.4 % 25.1 % SG&A as a % of revenue 16.4 % 16.3 % Operating income $ 759 $ 612 Operating income as a % of revenue 9.0 % 8.7 % Earnings from continuing operations $ 469 $ 378 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (67 ) Net earnings $ 469 $ 311 Diluted earnings per share continuing operations $ 1.42 $ 1.16 Diluted earnings per share $ 1.42 $ 0.96 Note: All periods presented reflect the classification of Musiclands financial results as discontinued operations. (1) Comprised of revenue at stores and Internet sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of acquisition. The calculation of the comparable store sales percentage change excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we refined our methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change. It now reflects the impact of non point of sale (non POS) revenue transactions. We refined our comparable store sales calculation methodology in light of changes in our business. Previously, our comparable store sales calculation was based on store POS revenue. The comparable store sales change for fiscal 2004 has been computed based on the refined methodology. The comparable store sales change for the prior fiscal year has not been computed using the refined methodology. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change did not impact previously reported revenue, earnings or cash flows. Earnings from continuing operations were $469 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, 45 or $1.42 per diluted share, a 24% increase from $378 million, or $1.16 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The increase in earnings from continuing operations was driven by a 21% increase in revenue, including a comparable store sales gain of 9.7%, and an improved gross profit rate, and was partially offset by a modest increase in our SG&A rate. Revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 increased 21% to $8.4 billion, compared with $7.0 billion for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Domestic and International segments increased 19% and 46%, respectively, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 compared with the same period of the prior year. Approximately two fifths of the increase in revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 was due to the 9.7% comparable store sales gain. The addition of 78 stores in the past 12 months also accounted for approximately two fifths of the revenue increase for the quarter. The remainder of the revenue increase for the fiscal fourth quarter was due to the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenue and comparable store sales for the fiscal fourth quarter also benefited from revenue gains at our Web sites. The fiscal fourth quarter comparable store sales gain was driven by an improved economic environment, including an increase in consumer confidence which resulted in higher customer traffic in our stores. Also contributing to the comparable store sales gain were effective advertising and promotional campaigns, as well as the redemption of gift cards and Reward Zone certificates following the holiday selling season. Customer traffic accelerated in the second half of December and sustained that pace through the end of the quarter. Products having the largest impact on our fiscal fourth quarter comparable store sales gain included notebook and desktop computers, digital televisions, digital cameras and accessories, DVD movies, CDs, MP3 players and digital camcorders. Our gross profit rate improved to 25.4% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, compared with 25.1% of revenue for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. The increase in the gross profit rate for the fiscal fourth quarter was primarily due to gross profit rate improvements within our product categories and a more effective use of promotions in the Domestic segment compared with the prior fiscal year. The improvements in the gross profit rates within our product categories resulted from specific initiatives, including reducing markdowns, improving product assortments and developing more effective promotions. These factors were partially offset by costs associated with Reward Zone; the increase of home office products in the revenue mix, as that product category carries a lower gross profit rate; and a more promotional environment in the International segment compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The SG&A rate increased to 16.4% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, compared with 16.3% of revenue for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. The modest SG&A rate increase was primarily due to increased performance based incentive compensation as a result of improved year over year financial performance, expenses associated with our customer centricity initiative and reduced funding from vendor alliance programs. These factors were partially offset by expense leverage from the 21% increase in revenue and the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative. 46 Segment Performance Domestic The following table presents unaudited selected financial data for the Domestic segment ($ in millions): Three Months Ended February 28, 2004 March 1, 2003 Revenue $ 7,605 $ 6,411 Comparable stores sales % change(1) 9.9 % 1.2 % Gross profit as a % of revenue 25.5 % 25.1 % SG&A as a % of revenue 16.1 % 15.9 % Operating income $ 712 $ 591 Operating income as a % of revenue 9.4 % 9.2 % Note: All periods presented reflect the classification of Musiclands financial results as discontinued operations. (1) Comprised of revenue at stores and Internet sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we refined our methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change. It now reflects the impact of non point of sale (non POS) revenue transactions. We refined our comparable store sales calculation methodology in light of changes in our business. Previously, our comparable store sales calculation was based on store POS revenue. The comparable store sales change for fiscal 2004 has been computed based on the refined methodology. The comparable store sales change for the prior fiscal year has not been computed using the refined methodology. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change did not impact previously reported revenue, earnings or cash flows. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, Domestic operating income increased to $712 million, or 9.4% of revenue, compared with $591 million, or 9.2% of revenue, for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. The improvement in our Domestic segments operating income for the fiscal fourth quarter was driven by revenue gains, including a 9.9% comparable store sales increase, and a 0.4% of revenue improvement in the gross profit rate, and was partially offset by an increase in the SG&A rate. Domestic revenue was $7.6 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, a 19% increase compared with fiscal 2003 fourth quarter revenue of $6.4 billion. Slightly more than half of the revenue increase was due to the 9.9% comparable store sales gain. The remainder of the revenue increase resulted from the addition of 60 U.S. Best Buy stores and three Magnolia Audio Video stores in the past 12 months. Revenue and comparable store sales for the fiscal fourth quarter also benefited from revenue gains at our Domestic Web sites. All four product categories posted comparable store sales gains for the fiscal fourth quarter. The mid teens comparable store sales gain in the home office category was primarily driven by sales of personal computers, MP3 players and computer networking products, partially offset by softer sales of PDAs. The high single digit comparable store sales gain in consumer electronics was primarily driven by sales of digital televisions, digital cameras and accessories, and digital camcorders, and was partially offset by declines in sales of analog televisions. For the fiscal fourth quarter, the entertainment software category had a high single digit comparable store sales gain, fueled by new releases and our improved assortments in both DVD movies and CDs, partially offset by a comparable store sales decline in video game hardware. The appliances category posted a comparable store sales gain in the high single digits for the fiscal fourth quarter, primarily benefiting from an expanded assortment and strong new products in higher end laundry products, refrigerators and dishwashers, as well as effective promotions. The Domestic gross profit rate increased to 25.5% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, an improvement of 0.4% of revenue compared with 25.1% of revenue for the same period of fiscal 2003. The increase in the gross profit rate for the fiscal fourth quarter was primarily due to gross profit rate improvements within our product categories and a more effective use of promotions compared with the prior fiscal year. The improvements in the gross profit rates within 47 our product categories resulted from specific initiatives, including reducing markdowns, improving product assortments and developing more effective promotions. These factors were partially offset by costs associated with Reward Zone and the increase of the home office category in the revenue mix, as that product category carries a lower gross profit rate. The Domestic SG&A rate increased 0.2% of revenue to 16.1% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, up from 15.9% of revenue for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. The modest SG&A rate increase was primarily due to increased performance based incentive compensation as a result of improved year over year financial performance, expenses associated with our customer centricity initiative and reduced funding from vendor alliance programs. These factors were partially offset by expense leverage from the 9.9% comparable store sales gain, the addition of 60 U.S. Best Buy stores and three Magnolia Audio Video stores in the past 12 months, as well as the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative. International The following table presents unaudited selected financial data for the International segment ($ in millions): Three Months Ended February 28, 2004 March 1, 2003 Revenue $ 844 $ 578 Comparable stores sales % change(1) 7.9 % 0.6 % Gross profit as a % of revenue 24.2 % 24.9 % SG&A as a % of revenue 18.7 % 21.3 % Operating income $ 47 $ 21 Operating income as a % of revenue 5.5 % 3.6 % (1) Comprised of revenue at stores and Internet sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of acquisition. The calculation of the comparable store sales percentage change excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we refined our methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change. It now reflects the impact of non point of sale (non POS) revenue transactions. We refined our comparable store sales calculation methodology in light of changes in our business. Previously, our comparable store sales calculation was based on store POS revenue. The comparable store sales change for fiscal 2004 has been computed based on the refined methodology. The comparable store sales change for the prior fiscal year has not been computed using the refined methodology. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage change did not impact previously reported revenue, earnings or cash flows. The International segments operating income increased to $47 million, or 5.5% of revenue, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, compared with fourth quarter operating income of $21 million, or 3.6% of revenue, for fiscal 2003. Approximately three tenths of the increase in operating income for the fiscal fourth quarter was due to the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The remainder of the improvement in operating income for the fiscal fourth quarter resulted from revenue gains, including a 7.9% comparable store sales increase, and a reduction in the SG&A rate, and was partially offset by a lower gross profit rate. International revenue increased 46% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 to $844 million, compared with $578 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Excluding the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, International revenue would have increased 24% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. The addition of four Future Shop stores and 11 Canadian Best Buy stores in the past 12 months accounted for approximately three fifths of the revenue increase for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, excluding the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The remainder of the fiscal fourth quarter revenue increase, excluding the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, was due to the 7.9% comparable store sales gain. Comparable store sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 were primarily driven by strength in sales of digital televisions, DVD movies and digital 48 cameras. Revenue and comparable store sales for the fiscal fourth quarter also benefited from revenue gains at our International Web site. The International gross profit rate was 24.2% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, down from 24.9% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The decline in the gross profit rate was primarily due to increased promotional activity compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, including higher customer financing expenses. In response to the opening of Best Buy stores in Canada, our International segment competitors increased their promotional offerings, resulting in additional pressure on our gross profit rate. The International SG&A rate declined to 18.7% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, compared with 21.3% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The SG&A rate decline for the fiscal fourth quarter was primarily driven by expense leverage as a result of the higher revenue base, improved operating efficiencies and reduced use of outside consulting services. Also, the International SG&A rate was positively affected by favorable settlements related to previously established legal and location closing liabilities, which did not have a significant effect on our consolidated fiscal 2004 earnings from continuing operations. Discontinued Operations The following table presents unaudited selected financial data for Discontinued Operations ($ in millions): Three Months Ended February 28, 2004 March 1, 2003 Revenue $ $ 585 Operating loss (147 ) Interest expense (3 ) Loss before income tax benefit (150 ) Income tax benefit(1) 83 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ $ (67 ) (1) The fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 included a $25 million tax benefit resulting from the differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes at acquisition, which were expected to be realized upon the disposition of Musicland. See the "Overview" section of this MD&A for additional information regarding the sale of our interest in Musicland. Outlook for Fiscal 2005 Our outlook for fiscal 2005 is based on information presently available and contains certain assumptions regarding future economic conditions. Differences in actual economic conditions compared with our assumptions could have a material impact on our fiscal 2005 results. Looking forward to fiscal 2005, we are projecting earnings from continuing operations in a range of $2.80 to $2.93 per diluted share, an increase of 15% to 20% compared with earnings from continuing operations of $2.44 per diluted share for fiscal 2004. We expect the earnings growth to be driven by an increase in revenue of 11% to 13% and an increase in our operating income rate to approximately 5.6% of revenue for fiscal 2005, compared with 5.3% of revenue for fiscal 2004. We are projecting revenue of approximately $27.5 billion for fiscal 2005, compared with revenue of $24.5 billion for fiscal 2004. We expect strong comparable store sales gains in the first 49 half of fiscal 2005 and the opening of approximately 73 new stores during the fiscal year will drive the revenue growth. We believe that comparable store sales gains in the first half of the fiscal year will benefit from continued consumer demand for digital products, increased brand awareness and customer loyalty, income tax refunds and easier comparisons with the first half of fiscal 2004. We expect comparable store sales gains to moderate somewhat in the second half of fiscal 2005 due to more challenging comparisons to revenue in the second half of fiscal 2004, which benefited from last falls tax rebates. For the fiscal year, we are projecting an increase of 4% to 6% in comparable store sales. Our fiscal 2005 outlook assumes an improvement in our operating income rate of approximately 0.3% of revenue, mainly due to a decrease in our SG&A rate. The improvement in our fiscal 2005 SG&A rate is expected to be primarily driven by efficiency initiatives and leverage from the comparable store sales gain and a larger base of stores, offset by additional expenses associated with our customer centricity initiative. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2005 are expected to be approximately $700 million. Of our total anticipated capital expenditures for fiscal 2005, approximately $350 million will support our planned new store openings and various U.S. and Canadian store remodeling projects. Specifically, the capital expenditures are expected to support the opening of approximately 60 new U.S. Best Buy stores, 10 Best Buy stores in Canada and three Future Shop stores. We also expect to convert up to 110 additional existing U.S. Best Buy stores to our customer centricity platform, remodel some of our U.S. Best Buy stores in key strategic markets, and relocate four Future Shop stores. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2005 also are expected to include approximately $165 million in technology investments intended to, among other things, improve our customer service capabilities and to increase operating efficiencies. We anticipate that our technology investments will remain relatively consistent over the next few fiscal years as we begin to leverage recently implemented systems. Finally, during fiscal 2005, we expect to complete the construction of our new Ardmore, Oklahoma, distribution center and the expansion of our Brampton, Ontario, distribution center. During fiscal 2005, we plan to continue with our quarterly dividend program and, given our strong cash position at the end of fiscal 2004 and our expected cash needs for fiscal 2005, we will consider increasing the size of our quarterly dividend. Our second regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share is payable on May 12, 2004, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 21, 2004. We also expect to continue repurchasing our common stock during fiscal 2005 pursuant to a $400 million share repurchase program authorized by the Companys Board of Directors in fiscal 2000. At the end of fiscal 2004, $200 million of the $400 million originally authorized by the Companys Board of Directors was available for future share repurchases. From the end of fiscal 2004 through April 20, 2004, we had repurchased and retired an additional 875,000 shares of our common stock at a cost of $46 million. There is no expiration date governing the period over which we can make our share repurchases.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Our debt is not subject to material interest rate volatility risk. The rates on a substantial portion of our debt may be reset, but may not be more than one percentage point higher than the current rates. If the rates on the debt were to be reset one percentage point higher, our annual interest expense would increase by approximately $8 million. We do not currently manage the risk through the use of derivative instruments. We have market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our acquisition of Future Shop in Canada in November 2001. At this time, we do not manage the risk through the use of derivative instruments. A 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rate would not have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial position. 50   
 
