Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We believe transparency and understandability are the primary goals of successful financial reporting. We remain committed to continuously increasing the transparency of our financial reporting, providing our shareholders with informative financial disclosures and presenting an accurate view of our financial position and operating results. In accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that such controls were effective as of February 26, 2005. Our independent registered public accounting firm expressed an unqualified opinion on managements assessment on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Managements report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and the related report of our independent registered public accounting firm are included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of our management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect our future results. Our MD&A is presented in nine sections: Overview Strategic Initiatives Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Critical Accounting Estimates New Accounting Standards Quarterly Results and Seasonality Outlook for Fiscal 2006 We believe our MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview Best Buy Co., Inc. is a specialty retailer of consumer electronics, home office products, entertainment software, appliances and related services. We operate two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of the operations of U.S. Best Buy and Magnolia Audio Video. U.S. Best Buy stores offer a wide variety of consumer electronics, home office products, entertainment software, appliances and related services, operating 668 stores in 48 states and the District of Columbia at the end of fiscal 2005. Magnolia Audio Video stores offer high end audio and video products and services from 20 stores located in California, Washington and Oregon at the end of fiscal 2005. Magnolia Audio Video was acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. The International segment was established in connection with our acquisition of Future Shop in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. At the end of fiscal 2005, the International segment consisted of 114 Future Shop stores operating throughout all Canadian provinces and 30 Canadian Best Buy stores operating in Ontario, Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba and Saskatchewan. Future Shop and Canadian Best Buy stores offer products and services similar to those offered by U.S. Best Buy stores, although Canadian Best Buy stores do not sell appliances. In support of our retail store operations, we also operate Geek Squad, a provider of in home computer repair, support and installation services, Web sites for each of our brands (BestBuy.com, BestBuyCanada.ca, FutureShop.ca, MagnoliaAV.com and GeekSquad.com) and an outlet store on eBay. Strategic Initiatives During fiscal 2005, we advanced four strategic initiatives that we believe will further enhance our business model 23 over the next several years and contribute to us achieving our annual operating income rate goal of 7% of revenue for fiscal 2008. The four strategic initiatives are: Customer Centricity Efficient Enterprise Win with Service Win in Entertainment Before we discuss each of our four strategic initiatives in greater detail, wed like to first provide an update on our 7% operating income rate goal. During fiscal 2004, we announced our goal of increasing our annual operating income rate to 7% of revenue for fiscal 2007, while continuing to deliver double digit revenue growth. While we still are focused on delivering an annual operating income rate of 7% of revenue, we now believe that it is more likely to be attained for fiscal 2008, rather than fiscal 2007. We extended this timeframe due to the expected impact of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (123(R)), which we plan to adopt effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2006, as well as the need to make additional investments in our business in the short term in order to achieve our long term goals. We believe that it is critical to accelerate our customer centricity initiative, expand our services business, boost retention of employees, add individualized marketing capabilities, and simplify our supply chain and information technology systems. Our operating income rate for fiscal 2005 was 5.3% of revenue, consistent with our operating income rate for fiscal 2004. In order to accomplish our goal of increasing our annual operating income rate to 7% of revenue for fiscal 2008, we believe we must increase the profitability of our International segment; improve our supply chain, global sourcing, merchandising and pricing effectiveness; realize the anticipated benefits from our efficient enterprise strategy; and successfully roll out our customer centricity initiative. We believe that increasing our International segments annual operating income rate to 5% of revenue would add up to 0.4% of revenue to our consolidated annual operating income rate. In addition, we believe that supply chain improvements, such as more accurate demand forecasting and direct importing, as well as sourcing opportunities and private labeled products, could add up to 0.5% of revenue to our annual operating income rate. Next, we believe the strategic relationships we formed in 2004 with Accenture LLP (Accenture), discussed in greater detail below, could increase our annual operating income rate by as much as 0.5% of revenue. Further, we believe that our organic growth through the customer centricity initiative will generate significant comparable store sales gains, which could help us leverage our cost structure and could increase our annual operating income rate by approximately 0.5% of revenue. Additionally, the lessons learned in rolling out our segmented stores will be applied as we convert additional existing U.S. Best Buy stores to the customer centricity operating model. Our progress toward achieving the goal of an annual 7% operating income rate is not expected to be perfectly linear; however, we expect to make progress each fiscal year. Finally, we remain focused on double digit revenue growth and an earnings growth rate of at least 15%. Customer Centricity Our customers are at the core of all of our business strategies, and our customer centricity initiative is the most important of our four strategic initiatives. In short, customer centricity means focusing on the customer. The customer centricity initiative includes identifying profitable customer segments, tailoring our store experience to satisfy their needs, and training our employees to think and behave as owner/operators. We believe that we can extend our competitive advantage by engaging more fully with our customers, offering them broader and deeper assortments than our competitors, and supporting their shopping experiences with a full array of services. Our goal is to maximize every customer touch point, including store visits, phone calls, online visits and in home visits. We believe the customer centricity operating model offers our customers a richer in store experience, including better shopping assistance as well as more of the products and services they want. Customer centricity empowers employees to recognize unique sets of customers and to build offerings and experiences to meet their needs. Our employees also like this model because it gives them more power to make decisions about how to satisfy their customers. Over time, we believe that our customer centricity initiative will attract new customer segments to our stores, which would leverage our existing assets. 24 In October 2004, we converted 67 U.S. Best Buy stores to the customer centricity operating model. At the end of fiscal 2005, a total of 85 U.S. Best Buy stores were operating under the customer centricity model, including 18 lab stores which continue to develop ideas to serve customers better. During fiscal 2006, we plan to open or convert 150 to 200 additional U.S. Best Buy stores to the customer centricity operating model. Each of these stores is expected to include elements designed to appeal to one or two of our five existing key customer segments, including affluent professional males, young entertainment enthusiasts who appreciate a digital lifestyle, upscale suburban moms, families who are practical technology adopters and small businesses with fewer than 20 employees. In addition, during fiscal 2006 we anticipate rolling out key elements of customer centricity to all of our other U.S. Best Buy stores. Finally, we are planning to complete the conversion of all of our U.S. Best Buy stores to the customer centricity operating model within three years. The successful rollout of our customer centricity initiative is a critical component in our goal of increasing our annual operating income rate to 7% of revenue for fiscal 2008. For the portion of fiscal 2005 in which they operated under the customer centricity operating model, the 67 segmented stores collectively reported a comparable stores sales increase of 8.2%, compared with a comparable store sales gain of 1.9% at other U.S. Best Buy stores during the same period. Further, as expected the gross profit rate at the 67 stores, collectively, was higher than that of other U.S. Best Buy stores for the portion of fiscal 2005 in which they operated under the customer centricity operating model, driven primarily by a more profitable revenue mix. However, due to one time conversion costs and a higher expense structure, the selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) rate for the 67 stores, collectively, was higher than that of other U.S. Best Buy stores for the same period, resulting in an operating income rate for the period that was less than that of other U.S. Best Buy stores. We continue to make improvements in our customer centricity operating model, including refining our store labor model. We believe the profitability of stores operating under the customer centricity platform will improve over time, similar to our historical experience with new store openings. Efficient Enterprise The purpose of our efficient enterprise initiative is to reduce our cost structure, increase our speed to market and improve the returns we achieve on our capital investments. During fiscal 2005, we completed a comprehensive evaluation of our information technology capabilities. We concluded that new, flexible systems that could support business innovation were needed for us to continue to compete effectively in the rapidly changing retail environment. We then began to evaluate strategic options for delivering information technology and other corporate support services. After considering various options and conducting due diligence, we engaged Accenture in July 2004 to provide us with consulting services, as well as support and development services in the information technology area, to further enable our anticipated transformation to a more efficient, customer centric business model. We selected Accenture based on our historical track record of successful joint projects and our confidence in Accentures ability to help us deliver results. Under our July 2004 seven year agreement with Accenture, Accenture will manage and further develop the full scope of our information technology operations. As part of the agreement, we plan to optimize our supply chain management capabilities, enhance the vendor management of our customer call centers, expand the functionality of our Web sites and improve the reporting for our customer centricity initiative. We expect the agreement with Accenture will result in a new and easier to manage operating platform that will reduce our risk and cost structure, including our total cost of ownership for information technology systems. Our other fiscal 2005 efficient enterprise accomplishments included: Engaged Accenture to assist us with improving our operational capabilities and reducing our costs in the human resources area Reduced fixed headcount Lowered health care costs Increased the productivity of our store labor Reduced the cost to construct new retail store locations, and 25 Changed our retail field organization structure and made certain changes to our executive organization structure designed to accelerate our business strategy by aggregating resources in three key growth areas: retail sales channels, customer business groups (including our customer centricity initiative), and the development of future growth platforms. We anticipate that the efficient enterprise initiative will enable us to improve our annual operating income rate by as much as 0.5% of revenue. Win with Service Our customers technology needs are becoming more complex with the rapid development of new products. In addition, consumers wish to manage their movies, music, photographs and games centrally and to access them through multiple devices throughout their home. Our win with service initiative focuses on creating a market leadership position in delivering lifestyle based solutions for our customers. We are committed to selling, installing and supporting technologies that create an integrated digital home. We believe this approach will differentiate us from many of our competitors who sell technology products, but do not provide installation and support services. Our goal is to create a life long relationship with our customers and deliver to them a broad product selection, home integration capabilities, service and technology upgrades. By expanding and strengthening our service offerings, we believe that we will boost customer traffic, raise our gross profit rate and improve customer loyalty while strengthening our competitive advantage. Geek Squad, our 24 hour rapid response computer support task force, is now available in every U.S. and Canadian Best Buy store. We employ nearly 7,000 Geek Squad agents, and in fiscal 2006, we expect to add another 5,000 agents. Our goal is to make Geek Squad North Americas largest provider of in home computer repair, support and installation services. We also intend to expand our in home integration services and to offer new Geek Squad services including network installations, server installations and server maintenance services to small businesses in select markets. During fiscal 2006, we are planning to strengthen our home theater installation business based on what we have learned from the Geek Squad. Our goal is to deliver the ultimate experience in home theater for our customers. Win in Entertainment Our fourth strategic initiative is focused on gaining market share in the rapidly changing entertainment software product group. This product group includes music, movies, video game hardware and software, computer software, subscriptions and other related products. The development and delivery of entertainment products have undergone significant changes in recent years. Our win in entertainment initiative includes supporting the development and delivery of new entertainment related products through multiple distribution channels to increase our market share. We want to be the consumers preferred choice when purchasing entertainment products. Our strategy for achieving this goal continues to focus on selection, offering customers a wide variety of products and services, and helping customers match the service and technology for the best possible experience. In support of this initiative, we continued to increase our offerings of online entertainment services and subscriptions in fiscal 2005. We also offered an exclusive music DVD from Elton John. During fiscal 2006, we expect to grow our market share in entertainment software by devoting more selling space in our stores to DVDs and video games, and capitalizing on the introduction of new video game hardware. We also anticipate continuing to enhance our entertainment offerings, including the introduction of tailored market assortments, and to pursue exclusive arrangements. Results of Operations Fiscal 2005 Accounting and Tax Items During fiscal 2005, certain accounting and tax items affected our reported financial results and the comparability of those results with other periods. These items included the correction of our accounting for leases, the establishment of a sales return liability, the resolution and clarification of various tax matters and the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 04 08, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Instruments on Diluted Earnings per Share. Each of these items is explained more fully below. 26 First, we conducted a review of our lease accounting practices in light of the views expressed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in its letter dated February 7, 2005, to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Center for Public Company Audit Firms. In the letter, the SEC expressed its views regarding certain operating lease accounting matters and the related interpretation/application of these matters under existing GAAP. Following our review, we recorded a cumulative fourth quarter charge of $36 million pre tax ($23 million after tax, or $0.07 per diluted share) to correct our accounting for certain operating lease matters. Of the $36 million pre tax charge, $15 million was recorded as an increase to SG&A, while the remaining $21 million was recorded as an increase to interest expense. We determined that no restatement was required due to the immaterial impact of the errors on current and prior periods. The adjustment increased our SG&A rate by 0.1% of revenue for fiscal 2005. For additional discussion on the correction of our accounting for leases, see Note 7, Leases, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Second, we established a sales return liability. The sales return liability represented the gross profit related to consumer purchases expected to be returned after the end of an accounting period. Historically, the year over year impact of consumer returns was not material. The establishment of the sales return liability reduced our gross profit for fiscal 2005 by $15 million pre tax ($10 million after tax, or $0.03 per diluted share) and reduced fiscal 2005 revenue by $65 million. The establishment of the sales return liability did not affect our gross profit rate for fiscal 2005. Third, due to the favorable resolution and clarification of certain federal and state income tax matters, we reduced our effective income tax rate for continuing operations to 35.3% for fiscal 2005. In addition, we recorded a $50 million tax benefit in our results from discontinued operations. The $50 million tax benefit related to our former Musicland subsidiary and was the result of the favorable resolution of outstanding tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service. The Musicland tax benefit resulted in an increase to net earnings of $0.15 per diluted share for fiscal 2005. Finally, we adopted EITF Issue No. 04 08. The calculation of diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2005 assumes the conversion of our convertible debentures, due in 2022, into 5.8 million shares of our common stock, and adds back the related after tax interest of $6.5 million. The adoption of EITF Issue No. 04 08 reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.03 for fiscal 2005. Prior year amounts have been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation. Unless otherwise noted, this MD&A relates only to results from continuing operations. All periods presented reflect the classification of Musiclands financial results as discontinued operations. Fiscal 2005 Summary Earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2005 increased 17% to $934 million, or $2.79 per diluted share, compared with $800 million, or $2.41 per diluted share, for fiscal 2004. The increase was driven primarily by revenue growth, including a comparable store sales gain of 4.3%, and a decrease in our SG&A rate, and was partially offset by a decrease in our gross profit rate. In addition, earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2005 benefited from net interest income of $1 million, compared with net interest expense of $8 million for the prior fiscal year, and a lower effective income tax rate due to the resolution and clarification of state and federal tax matters. Revenue for fiscal 2005 increased 12% to $27.4 billion, compared with $24.5 billion for the prior fiscal year. The increase reflected market share gains and was driven by the addition of 78 new stores in the past 12 months, a full of year of revenue from stores added in fiscal 2004, the 4.3% comparable store sales increase and the favorable effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our gross profit rate for fiscal 2005 declined by 0.2% of revenue to 23.7% of revenue, down from 23.9% of revenue for fiscal 2004. The decrease was due primarily to a more promotional environment compared with the prior fiscal year. Our SG&A rate for fiscal 2005 declined by 0.2% of revenue to 18.4% of revenue, down from 18.6% of revenue for the prior fiscal year. The improvement was due primarily to reduced performance based incentive 27 compensation, expense leverage (as revenue increased at a faster rate than operating expenses) from the 4.3% comparable store sales gain and the addition of new stores, and the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative. Effective with the cash dividend paid in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we increased our quarterly cash dividend by 10% to $0.11 per common share. During fiscal 2005, we made four dividend payments totaling $0.42 per common share, or $137 million in the aggregate. During fiscal 2005, we purchased and retired 3.8 million shares at a cost of $200 million pursuant to our share repurchase programs. Also in June 2004, we redeemed all of our convertible debentures due in 2021 for $355 million. No gain or loss was incurred. During 2004, we entered into agreements with Accenture for consulting, as well as support and development services in the human resources and information technology areas, to further enable our anticipated transformation to a more efficient, customer centric business model. Consolidated Results The following table presents selected consolidated financial data for each of the past three fiscal years ($ in millions, except per share amounts): Consolidated Performance Summary 2005 2004(1) 2003(1) Revenue $ 27,433 $ 24,548 $ 20,943 Comparable stores sales % gain(2) 4.3 % 7.1 % 2.4 % Gross profit as % of revenue 23.7 % 23.9 % 23.6 % SG&A as % of revenue 18.4 % 18.6 % 18.8 % Operating income $ 1,442 $ 1,304 $ 1,010 Operating income as % of revenue 5.3 % 5.3 % 4.8 % Earnings from continuing operations $ 934 $ 800 $ 622 Gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 50 (95 ) (441 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net of tax (82 ) Net earnings 984 705 99 Diluted earnings per share continuing operations(3) $ 2.79 $ 2.41 $ 1.90 Diluted earnings per share(3) $ 2.94 $ 2.13 $ 0.31 Note: All periods presented reflect the classification of Musiclands financial results as discontinued operations. (1)Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on operating income, net earnings, financial position or cash flows. During fiscal 2005, we reclassified from SG&A into cost of goods sold certain expenses related to operating our distribution network, consisting primarily of handling and transportation costs related to moving merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. We believe that the revised presentation provides greater consistency for investors by aligning the classification of our distribution costs with the practices of many other retailers. (2)Comprised of revenue at stores and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. The calculation of the comparable store sales percentage gain excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. During fiscal 2004, we refined our methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage gain to reflect the impact of non point of sale (non POS) revenue transactions. We refined our comparable store sales calculation methodology in light of changes in our business. Previously, our comparable store sales calculation was based on store POS revenue. The comparable store sales percentage gains for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 have been computed based on the refined methodology. The comparable store sales percentage gain for fiscal 2003 has not been computed using the refined methodology. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage gain did not impact previously reported revenue, net earnings or cash flows. (3)Diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 have been restated to reflect the adoption of EITF Issue No. 04 08. 28 Continuing Operations Fiscal 2005 Results Compared With Fiscal 2004 Earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2005 were $934 million, or $2.79 per diluted share, a 17% increase from $800 million, or $2.41 per diluted share, for fiscal 2004. The improvement was driven primarily by an increase in revenue, including a comparable store sales gain of 4.3%, and an improvement in our SG&A rate, and was partially offset by a decrease in our gross profit rate. In addition, earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2005 benefited from net interest income of $1 million, compared with net interest expense of $8 million for the prior fiscal year, and a lower effective income tax rate due to the resolution and clarification of outstanding income tax matters. Revenue for fiscal 2005 increased 12% to $27.4 billion, compared with $24.5 billion for fiscal 2004. The increase resulted from the addition of 61 U.S. Best Buy, 11 Canadian Best Buy and six Future Shop stores in the past 12 months; a full year of revenue from new stores added in fiscal 2004; the 4.3% comparable store sales gain; and the favorable effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The addition of new stores during the past two fiscal years accounted for approximately three fifths of the revenue increase for fiscal 2005; the comparable store sales gain accounted for nearly two fifths of the revenue increase; and the favorable effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for the remainder of the revenue increase. We believe our comparable store sales performance for fiscal 2005 reflected improved in store execution, including our ability to increase the close rate and average ticket, which more than offset customer traffic declines in our stores. In addition, our fiscal 2005 comparable store sales gain benefited from continued demand for digital products and our effective advertising and promotional campaigns, including a full year of Reward Zone, our customer loyalty program introduced in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Products having the largest impact on our fiscal 2005 comparable store sales gain included digital televisions, MP3 players, digital cameras and accessories, notebook computers, DVDs and major appliances. We believe the increase in revenue from digital products reflected the continued consumer migration to and increased affordability of digital products, while the increase in notebook computers was driven primarily by consumers continued attraction to the portability of these products. Our gross profit rate for fiscal 2005 declined to 23.7% of revenue, a 0.2% of revenue decrease compared with 23.9% of revenue for fiscal 2004. The decrease was due primarily to a more promotional environment compared with the prior fiscal year, including a full year of impact from and increased membership in Reward Zone. Reward Zone contributed to the revenue gain for the fiscal year, but reduced the fiscal 2005 gross profit rate by approximately 0.5% of revenue, compared with a 0.3% of revenue reduction in the gross profit rate for the prior fiscal year. In addition, our gross profit rate was affected by a higher level of promotional activity initiated to increase revenue and stem customer traffic declines, a trend we believe was experienced throughout the consumer electronics retail industry. The increase in promotional activity was partially offset by the increase of services revenue in the revenue mix, as services carry a higher gross profit rate, and benefits from our global sourcing initiative which enabled us to improve margins through lower product costs. At the end of fiscal 2005, we had more than 4.7 million Reward Zone members, compared with more than 2.5 million at the end of fiscal 2004. We continue to believe in the merits of Reward Zone as a vehicle for building customer loyalty. Further, we believe the insights gained from this program are important as we continue to pursue our customer centricity initiative. Under the terms of the program, members earn points for each qualifying purchase completed at U.S. Best Buy stores. After accumulating the required point total, members are awarded a certificate that may be redeemed on future purchases. Certificates awarded to Reward Zone members expire 90 days after issuance. Beginning in October 2004, Reward Zone members were required to spend $150 to earn a $5 certificate redeemable on future purchases. Previously, Reward Zone members earned a $5 certificate after spending $125. In accordance with EITF Issue No. 00 22, Accounting for "Points" and Certain Other Time Based or Volume Based 29 Sales Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products or Services to Be Delivered in the Future, the value of points earned by Reward Zone members is recorded as a liability and a reduction of revenue. The value of points earned by our loyalty program members is included as a liability and a reduction of revenue at the time the points are earned based on the percentage of points that are projected to be redeemed based on historical experience. During fiscal 2005, we reclassified from SG&A into cost of goods sold certain expenses related to operating our distribution network, consisting primarily of handling and transportation costs related to moving merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. We believe that the revised presentation provides greater consistency for investors by aligning the classification of our distribution costs with the practices of many other retailers and is consistent with current accounting guidance. However, because retailers do not uniformly record costs of operating their supply chain between cost of goods sold and SG&A, our gross profit rate and SG&A rate may not be comparable to certain other retailers. For additional information regarding costs classified in cost of goods sold and SG&A, refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Prior years financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Our SG&A rate for fiscal 2005 declined by 0.2% of revenue to 18.4% of revenue, down from 18.6% of revenue for the prior fiscal year. The improvement was due primarily to reduced performance based incentive compensation, expense leverage from the comparable store sales gain and the addition of new stores, and the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative. Our fiscal 2005 SG&A rate also benefited from favorable settlements with two credit card companies. These factors were partially offset by additional expenses associated with our customer centricity initiative, and charges to correct our accounting for leases and for the settlement of litigation which, collectively, increased our SG&A rate for fiscal 2005 by approximately 0.2% of revenue. Fiscal 2004 Results Compared With Fiscal 2003 Earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2004 increased 29% to $800 million, or $2.41 per diluted share, compared with $622 million, or $1.90 per diluted share, for fiscal 2003. The improvement was driven primarily by an increase in revenue, including a comparable store sales gain of 7.1%, and improvements in both our gross profit rate and our SG&A rate. Fiscal 2004 revenue increased 17% to $24.5 billion, compared with fiscal 2003 revenue of $20.9 billion. The increase resulted from the addition of 60 U.S. Best Buy, 11 Canadian Best Buy, four Future Shop and three Magnolia Audio Video stores during fiscal 2004; a full year of revenue from new stores opened in fiscal 2003; and the 7.1% comparable store sales gain. For fiscal 2004, the addition of new stores accounted for approximately half of the revenue increase; the comparable store sales gain accounted for approximately two fifths of the revenue increase; and the favorable effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for the remainder of the revenue increase. Our gross profit rate for fiscal 2004 improved by 0.3% of revenue to 23.9% of revenue, versus 23.6% of revenue for fiscal 2003. The improvement was due primarily to gross profit rate improvements within our product groups and a more effective use of promotions in the Domestic segment compared with fiscal 2003. These factors were partially offset by the impact of Reward Zone. We also experienced a more promotional environment in the International segment compared with fiscal 2003. Our SG&A rate for fiscal 2004 decreased by 0.2% of revenue to 18.6% of revenue, compared with 18.8% of revenue for fiscal 2003. The decrease was due primarily to expense leverage from the comparable store sales gain and the addition of new stores, as well as the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative. Our fiscal 2004 SG&A rate also benefited from a one time gain of approximately $5 million, pre tax, associated with the sale of equity securities received in connection with a vendor co marketing agreement. In addition, our fiscal 2004 SG&A rate benefited from the absence of certain costs incurred during fiscal 2003, including lease termination and asset impairment charges associated with 30 vacating our previous corporate facilities, as well as various expenses in our International segment to support strategic initiatives. These factors were partially offset by increased performance based incentive compensation as a result of our improved year over year financial performance and restricted stock grants awarded pursuant to our long term incentive compensation program, as well as spending on our customer centricity initiative. Other offsetting factors included reduced funding received from vendor alliance programs and technology asset impairment charges. Segment Performance Domestic The following table presents selected financial data for the Domestic segment for each of the past three fiscal years ($ in millions): Segment Performance Summary (unaudited) 2005 2004 2003 Revenue $ 24,616 $ 22,225 $ 19,303 Comparable stores sales % gain(1) 4.4 % 7.4 % 2.4 % Gross profit as % of revenue(2) 23.8 % 24.1 % 23.7 % SG&A as % of revenue(2) 18.2 % 18.4 % 18.5 % Operating income $ 1,393 $ 1,267 $ 1,002 Operating income as % of revenue 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.2 % Note: All periods presented reflect the classification of Musiclands financial results as discontinued operations. (1)Comprised of revenue at stores and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. During fiscal 2004, we refined our methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage gain to reflect the impact of non point of sale (non POS) revenue transactions. We refined our comparable store sales calculation methodology in light of changes in our business. Previously, our comparable store sales calculation was based on store POS revenue. The comparable store sales percentage gains for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 have been computed based on the refined methodology. The comparable store sales percentage gain for fiscal 2003 has not been computed using the refined methodology. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage gain did not impact previously reported revenue, net earnings or cash flows. (2)During fiscal 2005, we reclassified from SG&A into cost of goods sold certain expenses related to operating our distribution network, consisting primarily of handling and transportation costs related to moving merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. We believe that the revised presentation provides greater consistency for investors by aligning the classification of our distribution costs with the practices of many other retailers. Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The reclassification had no impact on previously reported operating income, net earnings, financial position or cash flows. Our Domestic segment reported operating income for fiscal 2005 of $1.4 billion, or 5.7% of revenue, compared with $1.3 billion, or 5.7% of revenue, for fiscal 2004. The Domestic segments operating income rate for fiscal 2005 benefited from revenue gains, including a 4.4% comparable store sales increase, and a decrease in the SG&A rate of 0.2% of revenue, and was offset by a decrease in the gross profit rate of 0.3% of revenue. Revenue for our Domestic segment increased to $24.6 billion for fiscal 2005, an 11% increase over fiscal 2004 revenue of $22.2 billion. Nearly three fifths of the increase for fiscal 2005 was due to the addition of new stores in the past two fiscal years. The remainder of the revenue increase was attributable to the 4.4% comparable store sales gain. We believe the comparable store sales performance of our Domestic segment for fiscal 2005 reflected improved in store execution, including our ability to increase the close rate and average ticket, which more than offset customer traffic declines in our stores. In addition, we believe our fiscal 2005 comparable store sales benefited from continued demand for digital products and our 31 effective advertising and promotional campaigns, including a full year of our Reward Zone customer loyalty program. All four of our product groups posted comparable store sales gains for fiscal 2005 in the Domestic segment. The consumer electronics group posted a high single digit comparable store sales gain for the fiscal year driven primarily by sales of digital products, including digital televisions, MP3 players and digital cameras and accessories. These gains reflect continued consumer preference for and the increased affordability of these products. These increases were partially offset by declines in sales of analog televisions. A low single digit comparable store sales gain in the home office group was driven primarily by sales of notebook computers, reflecting consumers continued attraction to the portability of these products. The entertainment software group recorded a comparable store sales gain in the low single digits driven primarily by increased revenue from DVDs and computer software, which was partially offset by decreased sales in video gaming and CDs. The mid single digit comparable store sales increase in the appliances group was driven primarily by increased sales of major appliances, resulting in part from expanded assortments, and was partially offset by comparable store sales declines in other products (e.g., small appliances) within the appliances group. The Domestic segments gross profit rate declined to 23.8% of revenue for fiscal 2005, a decrease of 0.3% compared with 24.1% of revenue for fiscal 2004. The decrease was due primarily to a more promotional environment compared with the prior fiscal year, including a full year of impact from and increased membership in Reward Zone. Reward Zone contributed to the revenue gain for the fiscal year, but reduced the fiscal 2005 gross profit rate by approximately 0.6% of revenue, compared with a 0.3% of revenue reduction in the gross profit rate for the prior fiscal year. In addition, our gross profit rate was affected by a higher level of promotional activity initiated to increase revenue and stem customer traffic declines, a trend we believe was experienced throughout the consumer electronics retail industry. The increase in promotional activity was partially offset by the increase of services revenue in the revenue mix, as services carry a higher gross profit rate, and benefits from our global sourcing initiative which enabled us to improve margins through lower product costs. The fiscal 2005 SG&A rate for the Domestic segment declined by 0.2% of revenue to 18.2% of revenue, down from 18.4% of revenue for the prior fiscal year. The improvement was due primarily to reduced performance based incentive compensation, expense leverage from the comparable store sales gain and the addition of new stores, and the realization of cost savings from our efficient enterprise initiative. Our fiscal 2005 SG&A rate also benefited from favorable settlements with two credit card companies. These factors were partially offset by additional expenses associated with our customer centricity initiative, and charges to correct our accounting for leases and for settlement of litigation which, collectively, increased our Domestic segments SG&A rate for fiscal 2005 by approximately 0.2% of revenue. 32  The following table reconciles Domestic stores open at the beginning and end of fiscal 2005: Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2004 Stores Opened Stores Closed Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2005 U.S. Best Buy 608 61 1 668 Magnolia Audio Video 22 2 20 Total 630 61 3 688 Note: During fiscal 2005, we converted 67 existing U.S. Best Buy stores to our customer centricity format and relocated six other U.S. Best Buy stores. No other U.S. Best Buy stores were relocated or remodeled during fiscal 2005. At the end of fiscal 2005, we operated 668 U.S. Best Buy stores in 48 states and the District of Columbia. No Magnolia Audio Video stores were relocated or remodeled during fiscal 2005. At the end of fiscal 2005, we operated 20 Magnolia Audio Video stores in California, Washington and Oregon. The following table reconciles Domestic stores open at the beginning and end of fiscal 2004: Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2003 Stores Opened Stores Closed Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2004 U.S. Best Buy 548 60 608 Magnolia Audio Video 19 3 22 Total 567 63 630 Note: We relocated four and remodeled three U.S. Best Buy stores during fiscal 2004. At the end of fiscal 2004, we operated 608 U.S. Best Buy stores in 48 states and the District of Columbia. One Magnolia Audio Video store was remodeled during fiscal 2004. At the end of fiscal 2004, we operated 22 Magnolia Audio Video stores in California, Washington and Oregon. International The following table presents selected financial data for the International segment for each of the past three fiscal years ($ in millions): Segment Performance Summary (unaudited) 2005 2004(1) 2003(1) Revenue $ 2,817 $ 2,323 $ 1,640 Comparable stores sales % gain(2) 3.3 % 4.7 % 4.3 % Gross profit as % of revenue 22.5 % 22.2 % 23.0 % SG&A as % of revenue 20.7 % 20.6 % 22.5 % Operating income $ 49 $ 37 $ 8 Operating income as % of revenue 1.7 % 1.6 % 0.5 % (1)Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on operating income, net earnings, financial position or cash flows. During fiscal 2005, we reclassified from SG&A into cost of goods sold certain expenses related to operating our distribution network, consisting primarily of handling and transportation costs related to moving merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. We believe that the revised presentation provides greater consistency for investors by aligning the classification of our distribution costs with the practices of many other retailers. (2)Comprised of revenue at stores and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. The calculation of the comparable store sales percentage gain excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. During fiscal 2004, we refined our methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage gain to reflect the impact of non point of sale (non POS) revenue transactions. We refined our comparable store sales calculation methodology in light of changes in our business. Previously, our comparable store sales calculation was based on store POS revenue. The comparable store sales percentage gains for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 have been computed based on the refined methodology. The comparable store sales percentage gain for fiscal 2003 has not been computed using the refined methodology. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store sales percentage gain did not impact previously reported revenue, net earnings or cash flows. 33 The International segment generated operating income of $49 million, or 1.7% of revenue, for fiscal 2005, an increase of 34% compared with $37 million, or 1.6% of revenue, for the prior fiscal year. The improvement was due primarily to revenue gains, including a 3.3% comparable store sales increase for the fiscal year, and an improved gross profit rate, and was partially offset by an increase in the SG&A rate. The International segment reported revenue of $2.8 billion for fiscal 2005, an increase of 21% compared with $2.3 billion for the prior fiscal year. New store additions in the past two fiscal years accounted for approximately half of the revenue increase for the fiscal year. The favorable effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for approximately one third of the revenue increase, and the 3.3% comparable store sales gain accounted for the remainder of the revenue increase. The comparable store sales increase reflected market share gains and was driven by increased revenue from MP3 players, notebook computers, digital televisions and digital cameras. The International segments gross profit rate was 22.5% of revenue for fiscal 2005, an increase from 22.2% of revenue for the prior fiscal year. The increase was due primarily to gross profit rate improvements resulting from increased vendor allowances and reduced markdowns, and was partially offset by an early contract termination penalty paid to a third party product warranty insurance provider. The SG&A rate for the International segment increased to 20.7% of revenue for fiscal 2005, compared with 20.6% of revenue for fiscal 2004. The increase was due primarily to the absence of favorable settlements realized in the prior fiscal year related to previously established legal and location closing liabilities. The fiscal 2004 favorable settlements did not have a significant effect on fiscal 2004 consolidated earnings from continuing operations. In addition, our fiscal 2005 SG&A rate was affected by a charge to correct our accounting for leases. These factors were partially offset by expense leverage resulting from new store openings and the comparable store sales gain, as well as a reduction in advertising expense as a percentage of revenue. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we completed our annual impairment testing of goodwill and the Future Shop tradename. Based on expectations for the business and the prevailing retail environment, we determined that no impairment existed. However, if future results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, or if we ever were to discontinue the use of the Future Shop tradename as a result of abandoning our dual branding strategy in Canada or otherwise, we may be exposed to an impairment charge in the future. The following table reconciles International stores open at the beginning and end of fiscal 2005: Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2004 Stores Opened Stores Closed Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2005 Future Shop 108 6 114 Canadian Best Buy 19 11 30 Total 127 17 144 Note: During fiscal 2005, we relocated four Future Shop stores. No Canadian Best Buy stores were relocated or remodeled during fiscal 2005. At the end of fiscal 2005, we operated 114 Future Shop stores throughout all Canadian provinces and 30 Canadian Best Buy stores in Ontario, Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba and Saskatchewan. 34 The following table reconciles International stores open at the beginning and end of fiscal 2004: Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2003 Stores Opened Stores Closed Total Stores at End of Fiscal 2004 Future Shop 104 4 108 Canadian Best Buy 8 11 19 Total 112 15 127 Note: During fiscal 2004, we relocated five Future Shop stores. No Canadian Best Buy stores were relocated or remodeled during fiscal 2004. At the end of fiscal 2004, we operated 108 Future Shop stores throughout all Canadian provinces and 19 Canadian Best Buy stores in Ontario, Alberta and Manitoba. Discontinued Operations On March 25, 2005, we received notification from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of a favorable resolution of outstanding tax matters regarding the disposition of our interest in Musicland. Based on the agreement with the IRS, we recognized a $50 million tax benefit in fiscal 2005. The sale of Musicland during fiscal 2004 resulted in an after tax loss on the disposal of discontinued operations totaling $66 million. The results of discontinued operations for fiscal 2004 are included through the date of the sale, June 16, 2003. Fiscal 2003 results from discontinued operations are for the entire fiscal year. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 2, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The results from discontinued operations for the past three fiscal years are as follows ($ in millions): Discontinued Operations Performance Summary (unaudited) 2005 2004 2003 Revenue $ $ 354 $ 1,727 Operating loss (46 ) (238 ) Interest expense (6 ) Loss before income tax benefit (46 ) (244 ) Income tax benefit(1) (17 ) (119 ) Loss before the disposal and the cumulative effect of accounting changes (29 ) (125 ) Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations(2) 50 (66 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net of $5 tax(3) (316 ) Gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $ 50 $ (95 ) $ (441 ) (1)Fiscal 2003 included a $25 million tax benefit resulting from the differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes at acquisition, which were expected to be realized upon the disposition of Musicland. (2)Fiscal 2005 gain on disposal of discontinued operations represents the reversal of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets. Fiscal 2004 loss on disposal of discontinued operations is net of $25 million tax benefit offset by a $25 million valuation allowance. (3)In the first quarter of fiscal 2003, we recorded an after tax, noncash impairment charge of $308 million for the full write off of goodwill related to our acquisition of Musicland, in accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which was adopted effective on March 3, 2002. In addition, we recorded an after tax, noncash charge of $8 million for the change in our method of accounting for vendor allowances in accordance with EITF No. 02 16, Accounting by a Reseller for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor. 35 Additional Consolidated Results Net Interest Income (Expense) We reported net interest income of $1 million for fiscal 2005, compared with net interest expense of $8 million for fiscal 2004. The change in net interest income (expense) was primarily a result of higher yields on short term investments, higher average investment balances and the repayment in June 2004 of our convertible debentures due in 2021. These factors were partially offset by a charge of $21 million to correct our accounting for leases. Net interest expense increased to $8 million for fiscal 2004, compared with net interest income of $4 million for fiscal 2003. The increase was primarily a result of the allocation of interest expense to discontinued operations for fiscal 2003. In addition, net interest expense increased approximately $4 million for fiscal 2004 as a result of interest expense related to the construction of our new corporate campus that was capitalized during fiscal 2003. For additional information regarding net interest income (expense), refer to Note 6, Net Interest Income (Expense), of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Effective Income Tax Rate Our effective income tax rate decreased to 35.3% for fiscal 2005, compared with 38.3% for fiscal 2004. The decrease in the effective income tax rate for fiscal 2005 was due to various state and federal tax matters described below. During fiscal 2005, we reduced our tax contingencies reserve due to the favorable resolution and clarification of certain federal and state income tax matters, including a favorable ruling from the IRS and the completion of IRS and certain state tax audits for fiscal 2000 through fiscal 2002. Our effective income tax rate decreased to 38.3% for fiscal 2004, down from 38.7% for fiscal 2003. The decrease was due primarily to a lower effective state income tax rate. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The impact of inflation and changing prices has not been material to our revenue or earnings from continuing operations in any of the last three fiscal years. Highly competitive market conditions and the general economic environment minimized inflations impact on the selling prices of our products and our expenses. In addition, price deflation and the continued commoditization of key technology products affects our ability to increase our gross profit rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Summary We ended fiscal 2005 with $3.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, an increase from $2.6 billion at the end of fiscal 2004. Working capital, the excess of current assets over current liabilities, increased to $1.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2005, compared with $1.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2004. Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. Short term investments were comprised of municipal and United States government debt securities with original maturities greater than 90 days but less than one year. In accordance with our investment policy, we place our investments in debt securities with issuers who have high quality credit and limit the amount of investment exposure to any one issuer. We seek to preserve principal and minimize exposure to interest rate fluctuations by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. Historically, we have classified investments in auction rate debt securities as cash and cash equivalents based on our ability to market and sell these investments at periodic interest rate reset dates. Despite the long term stated maturities of auction rate debt securities, the interest rates on these investments are reset periodically in an auction process that generally occurs every 90 days or less, resulting in a highly liquid market for such securities. We have liquidated these investments at the periodic interest rate reset dates as necessary to fund current operations. To classify auction rate debt securities as a cash equivalent, the stated maturity of the security must generally be within three months of the date of purchase. 36 In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we reviewed the classification of our auction rate debt securities. Based on this review, we reclassified these securities from cash and cash equivalents to short term investments or long term investments, as appropriate. Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The reclassification had no effect on previously reported total assets or net earnings. Our liquidity is affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral or restricted to use for general liability insurance, workers compensation insurance and warranty programs. Restricted cash balances, which are included in other current assets, totaled $158 million and $27 million as of February 26, 2005, and February 28, 2004, respectively. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for each of the past three fiscal years ($ in millions): Fiscal Year 2005 2004 2003 Total cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,841 $ 1,369 $ 778 Investing activities (1,166 ) (1,358 ) (910 ) Financing activities (459 ) (87 ) 30 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 9 1 Discontinued operations (net) (53 ) (79 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 225 $ (128 ) $ (181 ) Note: See consolidated statements of cash flows included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $1.8 billion for fiscal 2005, compared with $1.4 billion for fiscal 2004 and $778 million for fiscal 2003. The improvement in operating cash flows for fiscal 2005, compared with the prior fiscal year, was due primarily to an increase in cash provided from changes in operating assets and liabilities, as well as increased earnings from continuing operations. Earnings from continuing operations increased to $934 million for fiscal 2005, compared with $800 million for fiscal 2004. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were due primarily to increases in accounts payable, accrued income taxes and other liabilities, which were partially offset by increased merchandise inventories and other assets. The increase in accounts payable resulted primarily from higher business volumes and the timing of vendor payments. The increase in accounts payable was consistent with the increase in merchandise inventories. Accrued income taxes increased due primarily to the increase in earnings from continuing operations, as well as a reduction in tax benefits realized in fiscal 2005, as compared to fiscal 2004, related to the sale of our former Musicland subsidiary. The increase in other liabilities resulted primarily from growth in our business, including increases in gift card liabilities and deferred revenue. Merchandise inventories increased in fiscal 2005, due primarily to the addition of new stores and changes in product mix, including expanded assortments of digital imaging, home theater and computing products. The increased inventory levels also reflected our efforts to improve in stock positions in product groups that have been driving our revenue growth. The increase in other assets was due primarily to an increase in workers compensation deposits, as well as an increase in deposits with Canadian tax authorities. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $1.2 billion for fiscal 2005, compared with $1.4 billion and $910 million for fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, respectively. The change for fiscal 2005 was due primarily to decreased net purchases 37 of short term and long term investments in debt securities, as well as reduced capital spending in fiscal 2005 as a result of completing the construction of our new corporate headquarters in April 2003 and the timing of new store projects. Refer to the "Capital Expenditures" section of this MD&A for additional information. In fiscal 2005, we used cash for the construction of new retail locations, information systems, distribution center improvements and other store projects, including the conversion of 67 U.S. Best Buy stores to our customer centricity platform. The primary purposes of the cash investment activity were to support our expansion plans, improve our operational efficiency and enhance shareholder value. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $459 million for fiscal 2005, compared with $87 million for fiscal 2004 and cash provided by financing activities of $30 million for fiscal 2003. The change from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005 was due primarily to the redemption in June 2004 of our convertible debentures due in 2021 for $355 million and repurchases of our common stock, which were partially offset by increased proceeds from the issuance of common stock in connection with our stock based compensation programs. During fiscal 2005, we repurchased $200 million of our common stock pursuant to stock repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2000. Discontinued Operations Net cash used in discontinued operations was $0 for fiscal 2005, compared with $53 million for fiscal 2004 and $79 million for fiscal 2003. There was no cash used in discontinued operations in fiscal 2005 due to the sale of our interest in Musicland during the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Sources of Liquidity Funds generated by operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents, and short term investments continue to be our most significant sources of liquidity. We believe funds generated from the expected results of operations, available cash and cash equivalents, and short term investments will be sufficient to finance anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives for the next fiscal year. In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs or investment opportunities. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to generate cash flows at or above current levels or that we will be able to maintain our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facilities. In December 2004, we entered into an agreement for a $200 million revolving credit facility that is guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries. The new revolving credit facility expires on December 22, 2009, and replaced a $200 million revolving credit facility that was to expire on March 21, 2005. Borrowings under the new revolving credit facility are unsecured and bear interest at rates specified in the agreement. As of February 26, 2005, and February 28, 2004, $139 million and $197 million, respectively, were available under these facilities. There were no borrowings outstanding under either of these facilities for any period presented. However, outstanding letters of credit reduced amounts available under these facilities. We also have inventory financing programs through which certain suppliers receive payments from a designated finance company on invoices we owe them. At February 26, 2005, and February 28, 2004, $68 million and $70 million, respectively, were outstanding and $157 million and $140 million, respectively, were available for use under these inventory financing facilities. In March 2004, our International segment entered into an agreement for a $20 million revolving demand facility, of which $16 million is available from February through July and $20 million is available from August through January of each year. There is no set expiration date for this facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at February 26, 2005. Outstanding letters of credit and letters of guarantee reduced the amount available under this facility to $15 million at February 26, 2005. All borrowings under this facility are made available at the sole discretion of the lender and are payable on demand. Borrowings under this facility are unsecured and bear interest at rates specified in the agreement. The agreement for this facility contains certain reporting and operating covenants. This facility replaced a $41 million unsecured credit facility, which was canceled on March 1, 2004. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at February 28, 2004. 38 Our ability to access our credit facilities is subject to our compliance with the terms and conditions of the credit facilities, including financial covenants. The financial covenants require us to maintain certain financial ratios. At the end of fiscal 2005, we were in compliance with all such covenants. In the event we were to default on any of our other debt, it would constitute a default under our credit facilities as well. We offer our customers extended financing through a third party financial institution. The third party institution assumes the risk of collection from our customers and has no recourse against us for any uncollectible amounts. Generally, these financing offers allow customers to purchase products with repayment terms ranging from 90 days to 24 months without a finance charge. Our contract with the third party financial institution extends through January 2009. If the contract were to be terminated prior to January 2009, we believe we could contract with an alternative third party financial institution or directly provide our customers with extended financing. Our credit ratings as of April 29, 2005, were as follows: Rating Agency Rating Outlook Fitch(1) BBB Positive Moodys(2) Baa3 Positive Standard & Poors(3) BBB Stable (1)In February 2005, Fitch Ratings revised its outlook to positive from stable and affirmed our BBB rating. The outlook revision is based on our improving operating performance and strong balance sheet. (2)In March 2005, Moodys Investors Service revised its outlook to positive from stable and affirmed our Baa3 rating. The outlook revision is based on the success of our initiatives to increase market share while boosting profit margins. (3)In February 2005, Standard & Poors Ratings Services revised its rating from BBB with a positive outlook to BBB with a stable outlook based on our operating performance and liquidity levels, improved credit metrics and expectations that we will continue to apply a moderate financial policy in the management of our strategic growth opportunities. Factors that can impact our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the retail and consumer electronics industries, our financial position and changes in our business strategy. We do not currently foresee any reasonable circumstances under which our credit ratings would be significantly downgraded. If a downgrade were to occur, it could adversely impact, among other things, our future borrowing costs, access to capital markets, vendor financing terms and future new store occupancy costs. In addition, the conversion rights of the holders of our convertible subordinated debentures could be accelerated if our credit ratings were to be downgraded. Capital Expenditures A component of our long term strategy is our capital expenditure program. This program includes, among other things, investments in new stores, store remodeling, store relocations and expansions, new distribution facilities and information technology enhancements. During fiscal 2005, we invested $502 million in property and equipment, including opening 78 new stores; converting 67 stores to our customer centricity operating model; relocating 10 stores; completing construction of our new Oklahoma distribution center; completing the expansion of our Ontario distribution center; and information technology systems improvements. Capital expenditures are funded through cash provided by operating activities, as well as available cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Refer to the "Outlook for Fiscal 2006" section of this MD&A for information on our capital expenditure plans for fiscal 2006. 39 The following table presents our capital expenditures for each of the past three fiscal years ($ in millions): Fiscal Year 2005 2004 2003 New stores $ 182 $ 215 $ 219 Store related projects(1) 145 111 96 Corporate campus(2) 29 131 Information technology 115 112 185 Other 60 78 94 Total capital expenditures $ 502 $ 545 $ 725 (1)Includes store remodels, relocations and or expansions, as well as various merchandising projects. (2)Construction of our new corporate campus was completed during fiscal 2004. Debt and Capital In January 2002, we sold convertible subordinated debentures having an aggregate principal amount of $402 million. The proceeds from the offering, net of $6 million in offering expenses, were $396 million. The debentures mature in 2022 and are callable at par, at our option, for cash on or after January 15, 2007. Holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their debentures on January 15, 2007; January 15, 2012; and January 15, 2017, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest up to but not including the date of purchase. We have the option to settle the purchase price in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. The debentures will be convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 14.4927 shares per $0.001 principal amount of debentures, equivalent to an initial conversion price of $69.00 per share, if the closing price of our common stock exceeds a specified price for a specified period of time, if our credit rating falls below specified levels, if the debentures are called for redemption or if certain specified corporate transactions occur. At February 26, 2005, none of the criteria for conversion had been met. However, upon the adoption for fiscal 2005 of EITF Issue No. 04 08, the calculation of our diluted earnings per share now includes the conversion of our convertible debentures into 5.8 million shares of our common stock, and adds back related after tax interest of $6.5 million. The adoption of EITF Issue No. 04 08 reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.03 for fiscal 2005. Prior year amounts have been restated to conform to the current year presentation. The debentures have an initial interest rate of 2.25% per annum. The interest rate may be reset, but not below 2.25% or above 3.25%, on July 15, 2006; July 15, 2011; and July 15, 2016. One of our subsidiaries has guaranteed the convertible debentures. In June 2004, we redeemed our convertible debentures due in 2021 for $355 million. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, in connection with the review of our lease accounting practices, we recorded a $107 million financing lease obligation for leases that did not qualify for sale leaseback accounting treatment. We also have a master lease program which was used for the purpose of constructing and leasing new retail locations. At the end of fiscal 2005, $55 million in leases related to new stores were outstanding under the master lease program. The master lease program was completed in fiscal 2003 and there has been no further new store development under this program. On May 4, 2005, we repaid the outstanding balance of $54 million on the master lease program. Share Repurchases and Dividends In June 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a $500 million share repurchase program. The new program, which became effective on June 24, 2004, terminated and replaced a $400 million share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in fiscal 2000. During fiscal 2005, we purchased and retired 2.3 million shares at a cost of $118 million under the $500 million share repurchase program, and 1.6 million shares at a cost of $82 million under the $400 million share repurchase program. 40 In April 2005, our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to $1.5 billion of our common stock from time to time through open market purchases. This share repurchase program has no stated expiration date. The $1.5 billion share repurchase program terminated and replaced the $500 million share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in June 2004. During fiscal 2004, we purchased and retired 1.8 million shares at a cost of $100 million under the $400 million share repurchase program. No share repurchases were made during fiscal 2003. We consider several factors in determining when to make share repurchases, including among other things, our cash needs and the market price of our stock. We expect that cash provided by future operating activities, as well as available cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, will be the sources of funding for the share repurchase program. Additional information on our share repurchase program is included in Item 5, Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, our Board of Directors declared the Companys first ever cash dividends, including the initiation of a regular quarterly cash dividend. Effective with the cash dividend authorized for payment by our Board of Directors in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we increased the quarterly cash dividend by 10% to $0.11 per common share. During fiscal 2005, we made four dividend payments totaling $0.42 per common share, or $137 million in the aggregate. During fiscal 2005, we returned a total of $337 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividend payments. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Other than operating leases, we do not have any off balance sheet financing. We finance a portion of our new store development program through sale leaseback transactions, which involve selling stores to unrelated parties and then leasing the stores back under leases that are accounted for as operating leases in accordance with GAAP. A summary of our operating lease obligations by fiscal year is included in the "Contractual Obligations" section below. Our debt to capitalization ratio, which represents the ratio of total debt, including the current portion of long term debt, to total capitalization (total debt plus total shareholders equity), improved to 12% at the end of fiscal 2005, compared with 20% at the end of fiscal 2004. The improvement was due primarily to the redemption in June 2004 of our convertible debentures due in 2021 for $355 million and an increase in shareholders equity. We view our debt to capitalization ratio as an important indicator of our creditworthiness. Our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations (rental expense for all operating leases multiplied by eight), was 51% at the end of fiscal 2005, compared with 57% at the end of fiscal 2004. Our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations, is considered a non GAAP financial measure and is not in accordance with, or preferable to, the ratio determined in accordance with GAAP. However, we have included this information as we believe that our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations, is important for understanding our operations and provides meaningful additional information about our ability to service our long term debt and other fixed obligations, and to fund our future growth. In addition, we believe our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations, is relevant because it enables investors to compare our indebtedness to retailers who own, rather than lease, their stores. Our decision to own or lease real estate is based on an assessment of our financial liquidity, our capital structure, our desire to own or to lease the location, the owners desire to own or to lease the location and the alternative that results in the highest return to our shareholders. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations, is our debt to capitalization ratio. Our debt to capitalization ratio excludes capitalized operating lease obligations in both the numerator and denominator of the calculation in the table below. 41 The following table presents a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of our adjusted debt to capitalization ratio, including capitalized operating lease obligations ($ in millions): Fiscal Year 2005 2004 Debt (including current portion) $ 600 $ 850 Capitalized operating lease obligations (8 times rental expense) 4,007 3,746 Total debt (including capitalized operating lease obligations) $ 4,607 $ 4,596 Debt (including current portion) $ 600 $ 850 Capitalized operating lease obligations (8 times rental expense) 4,007 3,746 Total shareholders equity 4,449 3,422 Adjusted capitalization $ 9,056 $ 8,018 Debt to capitalization ratio 12 % 20 % Adjusted debt to capitalization ratio (including capitalized operating lease obligations) 51 % 57 % Contractual Obligations The following table presents information regarding our contractual obligations by fiscal year ($ in millions): Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Long term debt obligations $ 425 $ 2 $ 408 $ 12 $ 3 Capital lease obligations 13 5 4 3 1 Master lease obligations 55 55 Financing lease obligations 107 10 17 19 61 Interest payments 218 23 37 32 126 Operating lease obligations 5,850 541 1,065 997 3,247 Purchase obligations(1) 1,514 689 404 259 162 Deferred compensation(2) Total $ 8,182 $ 1,325 $ 1,935 $ 1,322 $ 3,600 Note: For more information refer to Note 4, Debt; Note 7, Leases; and Note 11, Contingencies and Commitments, respectively, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (1)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, are legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations do not include agreements that are cancelable without penalty. Additionally, although they are not legally binding agreements, we included open purchase orders in the table above. Substantially all open purchase orders are fulfilled within 30 days. (2)Included in other long term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at February 26, 2005, is a $64 million obligation for deferred compensation. As the specific payment dates for the deferred compensation is unknown, related balances have not been reflected in the above table. 42  Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events, and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and such differences could be material. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Management believes that the following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, and they require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Management has reviewed these critical accounting estimates and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Inventory Reserves We value our inventory at the lower of the average cost of the inventory or fair market value through the establishment of markdown and inventory loss reserves. Our markdown reserve represents the excess of the carrying value, typically average cost, over the amount we expect to realize from the ultimate sale or other disposal of the inventory. Our inventory loss reserve represents anticipated physical inventory losses (e.g., theft) that have occurred since the last physical inventory date. Independent physical inventory counts are taken on a regular basis to ensure that the inventory reported in our consolidated financial statements is properly stated. During the interim period between physical inventory counts, we reserve for anticipated physical inventory losses on a location by location basis. Our markdown reserve contains uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding forecasted consumer demand, the promotional environment, inventory aging and technological obsolescence. Our inventory loss reserve contains uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including historical results and current inventory loss trends. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our markdown or inventory loss reserves during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our markdown reserve. However, if estimates regarding consumer demand are inaccurate or changes in technology affect demand for certain products in an unforeseen manner, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. A 10% difference in our actual markdown reserve at February 26, 2005, would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million for the fiscal year ended February 26, 2005. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our inventory loss reserve. However, if our estimates regarding physical inventory losses are inaccurate, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. A 10% difference in actual physical inventory losses reserved for at February 26, 2005, would have affected net earnings by approximately $5 million for the fiscal year ended February 26, 2005. 43 Self Insured Liabilities We are self insured for certain losses related to health, workers compensation, general liability and auto insurance. However, we obtain third party insurance coverage to limit our exposure to these claims. When estimating our self insured liabilities, we consider a number of factors, including historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and valuations provided by independent third party actuaries. Periodically, management reviews its assumptions and the valuations provided by independent third party actuaries to determine the adequacy of our self insured liabilities. Our self insured liabilities contain uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions regarding and apply judgment to estimate the ultimate cost to settle reported claims and claims incurred but not reported as of the balance sheet date. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our self insured liabilities during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future assumptions or estimates we use to calculate our self insured liabilities. However, if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. A 10% change in our self insured liabilities at February 26, 2005, would have affected net earnings by approximately $5 million for the fiscal year ended February 26, 2005. Costs Associated with Exit Activities We occasionally vacate stores and other locations prior to the expiration of the related lease. For vacated locations that are under long term leases, we record an expense for the difference between our future lease payments and related costs (e.g., real estate taxes and common area maintenance) from the date of closure through the end of the remaining lease term, net of expected future sublease rental income. Our cash flows are discounted using a risk free interest rate that coincides with the remaining lease term. Our estimate of future cash flows is based on historical experience; our analysis of the specific real estate market, including input from independent real estate firms; and economic conditions that can be difficult to predict. The calculation of our location closing liability contains uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions regarding and to apply judgment to estimate the timing and duration of future vacancy periods, the amount and timing of future settlement payments, and the amount and timing of potential future sublease rental income. When making these assumptions, management considers a number of factors, including historical settlement experience, the owner of the property, the location and condition of the property, the terms of the underlying lease, the specific marketplace demand and general economic conditions. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our location closing liability during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future assumptions or estimates we use to calculate our location closing liability. However, if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. A 10% change in our location closing liability at February 26, 2005, would have affected net earnings by approximately $2 million for the fiscal year ended February 26, 2005. 44 Long Lived Assets Long lived assets other than goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, which are separately tested for impairment, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. When evaluating long lived assets for potential impairment, we first compare the carrying value of the asset to the assets estimated future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges). If the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, we calculate an impairment loss. The impairment loss calculation compares the carrying value of the asset to the assets estimated fair value, which may be based on estimated future cash flows (discounted and with interest charges). We recognize an impairment loss if the amount of the assets carrying value exceeds the assets estimated fair value. If we recognize an impairment loss, the adjusted carrying amount of the asset becomes its new cost basis. For a depreciable long lived asset, the new cost basis will be depreciated (amortized) over the remaining useful life of that asset. Using the impairment evaluation methodology described herein, we recorded long lived asset impairment charges totaling $22 million, in the aggregate, during the fiscal year ended February 26, 2005. Our impairment loss calculations contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions regarding and to apply judgment in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, including forecasting useful lives of the assets and selecting the discount rate that reflects the risk inherent in future cash flows. We have not made any material changes to our impairment loss assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future assumptions or estimates we use to calculate long lived asset impairment losses. However, if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, we may be exposed to additional impairment losses that could be material. 45 Goodwill and Intangible Assets We evaluate goodwill and the Future Shop tradename for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the goodwill or the Future Shop tradename may not be recoverable. We complete our impairment evaluation by performing internal valuation analyses, considering other publicly available market information and using an independent valuation firm. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we completed our annual impairment testing of goodwill and the Future Shop tradename using the methodology described herein, and determined there was no impairment. The carrying value of goodwill as of February 26, 2005, was $513 million. The carrying value of the Future Shop tradename as of February 26, 2005, was $40 million. We determine fair value using widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and market multiple analyses. These types of analyses contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions and estimates regarding industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. It is our policy to conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. Effective with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, at the beginning of fiscal 2003, we eliminated the systematic amortization of goodwill and began testing goodwill and the Future Shop tradename for impairment at least annually. We have not made any other changes to our impairment loss assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future assumptions or estimates we use to calculate goodwill impairment losses. However, if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to a goodwill impairment charge. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future assumptions or estimates we use to calculate Future Shop tradename impairment losses. However, if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, or if we ever were to discontinue the use of the Future Shop tradename as a result of abandoning our dual branding strategy in Canada or otherwise, we may be exposed to an impairment charge. Tax Contingencies Like most companies, domestic and foreign tax authorities periodically audit our income tax returns. These audits include questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. At any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by the various tax authorities. In evaluating the exposures associated with our various tax filing positions, we record reserves for probable exposures. A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have established a reserve, is audited and fully resolved. When the actual result of a settlement with tax authorities differs from our established reserve for a matter, we adjust our tax contingencies reserve and income tax provision in the period in which the income tax matter is resolved. The estimate of our tax contingencies reserve contains uncertainties because management must use judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. Our effective income tax rate is also affected by changes in law, the location of new stores or business ventures, the level of earnings and the results of tax audits. Although management believes that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which reserves have been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement would require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement would be recognized as a reduction in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. 46 Revenue Recognition See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for a complete discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Reward Zone, our customer loyalty program, allows members to earn points for each purchase completed at U.S. Best Buy stores. After earning the required point total, members are awarded a certificate that may be redeemed on future purchases. The value of points earned by members is recorded as a liability and a reduction of revenue based on the percentage of points that are projected to be redeemed. From time to time, we offer customers mail in rebates valid for a refund of a portion of the price paid for merchandise or services. Rebates are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on the percentage of rebates that are projected to be redeemed. Our revenue recognition accounting methodology contains uncertainties because management must apply judgment in estimating the number of points expected to be redeemed by members of our customer loyalty program and rebate offers that will be redeemed by customers. Our estimate of the number of points and rebates that will be redeemed is based primarily on historical transaction experience. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to recognize revenue during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates we use to recognize revenue. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. A 10% change in the Reward Zone and rebate liabilities at February 26, 2005, would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million and $9 million, respectively, for the fiscal year ended February 26, 2005. Long Term Incentive Program We offer a long term incentive program for certain U.S. employees designed to help us attract and retain employees and to better align employee interests with those of our shareholders. Under the terms of the program, which began in November 2003, eligible employees may receive a mix of restricted stock and stock options issued pursuant to existing shareholder approved plans. Shares of restricted stock vest at the end of a three year incentive period based on our total return to shareholders compared with the total return to shareholders of companies comprising the Standard & Poors (S&P) 500. Effective with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, which we expect will occur for the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we will determine the fair value of restricted stock and recognize the fair value as compensation expense ratably over the three year vesting period. At the end of each fiscal quarter, management is required to estimate the percentage of restricted stock that will vest at the end of the three year incentive period in order to determine the amount of compensation expense to be recognized. Managements estimate for the percentage of restricted stock that will vest contains uncertainties because it is based on the projected performance of our stock compared with the S&P 500 during the three year incentive period. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our long term incentive program liability since the programs inception in the third quarter of fiscal 2004. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates we use to calculate our long term incentive program liability. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. A 10% difference in the percentage of restricted stock that is projected to vest at the end of the three year incentive period as of February 26, 2005, would have affected net earnings by approximately $4 million for the fiscal year ended February 26, 2005. 47 New Accounting Standards In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123(R). Among other items, SFAS No. 123(R) will require us to recognize compensation expense for all stock based compensation in our consolidated statements of earnings. In addition, SFAS No. 123(R) will require the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow. The new requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. While we are unable to estimate what those amounts will be in the future (because they depend on, among other things, when employees exercise stock options), the amount of operating cash flows recognized in prior periods for such excess tax deductions were $60 million, $41 million and $33 million in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. SFAS No. 123(R) is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005, with early adoption permitted. We expect to implement the new standard beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2006 using the "modified retrospective" approach which permits us to restate our previously reported consolidated financial statements to reflect previously disclosed pro forma compensation expense in our consolidated financial statements. We estimate the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123(R) to be approximately $0.17 per diluted share for fiscal 2006, compared with $0.14 per diluted share for fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2005 pro forma compensation expense benefited from an increase in the expected participant stock option forfeiture rate. Depending on the model used to calculate stock based compensation expense in the future, model assumptions, participant forfeitures and other requirements of SFAS No. 123(R), the pro forma disclosure may not be indicative of the stock based compensation expense that will be recognized in our future financial statements. For additional discussion on our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs. SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Inventory Pricing, to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted material (spoilage) costs. SFAS No. 151 requires those items to be excluded from the cost of inventory and expensed when incurred. It also requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 151, but we do not expect it to have a significant impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, was issued in December 2004. This FSP provides guidance on accounting for special reductions in taxes included in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Act). In particular, the Act allows a one time decrease in U.S. federal income taxes on repatriated foreign earnings. FSP No. 109 2 clarifies that a companys consideration of the Act does not overrule its prior contention that the foreign earnings were permanently reinvested. Also, FSP No. 109 2 indicates that companies should recognize tax expense when a decision is made to repatriate some or all foreign earnings, and provide disclosure about the possible range of repatriation if the analysis is not yet complete. We have reviewed the provisions of the Act and do not expect to repatriate additional income earned outside the U.S. during fiscal 2006; therefore, we have not recorded any income tax expense as a result of the Acts provisions. For additional discussion of the Act refer to Note 9, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Quarterly Results and Seasonality Similar to many retailers, our business is seasonal. Historically, we have realized more of our revenue and earnings in the fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday selling season, than in any other fiscal quarter. The timing of new store openings, costs associated with the development of new businesses, as well as general economic conditions may also affect our future quarterly results. 48 Selected quarterly financial data is included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Fourth Quarter Accounting and Tax Items During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, certain accounting and tax items affected our reported financial results and the comparability of those results with other periods. These items included the correction of our accounting for leases, the establishment of a sales return liability, the effect of various tax matters and the adoption of EITF Issue No. 04 08. Refer to the "Results of Operations Fiscal 2005 Accounting and Tax Items" section of this MD&A for additional information concerning the nature and amount of the items. Fourth Quarter Summary Earnings from continuing operations increased 11% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 to $522 million, or $1.55 per diluted share, compared with $469 million, or $1.40 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Revenue increased 9% to $9.2 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, compared with $8.4 billion for the same period of the prior fiscal year, driven by the addition of 78 stores in the past 12 months, a comparable store sales gain of 2.8% and the favorable effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our gross profit rate decreased by 0.7% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 to 23.5% of revenue, down from 24.2% of revenue for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. The decline was due primarily to a less profitable revenue mix. In addition, the gross profit rate for the fiscal fourth quarter was adversely affected by increased promotional activity compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, as well as the impact of product model transitions which resulted in increased markdowns. Our SG&A rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 improved by 0.3% of revenue to 15.0% of revenue, down from 15.3% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. The improvement was driven primarily by lower performance based incentive compensation costs and a favorable settlement with a credit card company. These factors were partially offset by a fourth quarter charge to correct our accounting for leases. Consolidated The following table presents selected consolidated financial data ($ in millions, except per share amounts): Three Months Ended (Unaudited) February 26, 2005 February 28, 2004(1) Revenue $ 9,227 $ 8,449 Comparable store sales % gain(2) 2.8 % 9.7 % Gross profit as % of revenue 23.5 % 24.2 % SG&A as % of revenue 15.0 % 15.3 % Operating income $ 783 $ 759 Operating income as % of revenue 8.5 % 9.0 % Earnings from continuing operations $ 522 $ 469 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations(3) 50 Net earnings $ 572 $ 469 Diluted earnings per share continuing operations(4) $ 1.55 $ 1.40 Diluted earnings per share(3) $ 1.69 $ 1.40 Note: All periods presented reflect the classification of Musiclands financial results as discontinued operations. (1)Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on operating income, net earnings, financial position or cash flows. During fiscal 2005, we reclassified from SG&A into cost of goods sold certain expenses related to operating our distribution network, consisting primarily of handling and transportation costs related to moving merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. We believe that the revised presentation provides greater consistency for investors by aligning the classification of our distribution costs with the practices of many other retailers. (2)Comprised of revenue at stores and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. The calculation of the comparable store sales percentage gain excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. (3)The fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 includes a tax benefit of $50 million due to the favorable resolution of outstanding tax matters. (4)Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 have been restated to reflect the adoption of EITF Issue No. 04 08, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Instruments on Diluted Earnings per Share. 49 Earnings from continuing operations were $522 million, or $1.55 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, an increase of 11% compared with $469 million, or $1.40 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. The improvement was driven by a 9% increase in revenue, including a comparable store sales gain of 2.8%, and a decrease in our SG&A rate, and was partially offset by a decrease in our gross profit rate. In addition, earnings from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 benefited from a lower effective income tax rate due to the resolution and clarification of outstanding income tax matters. Revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 increased 9% to $9.2 billion, compared with $8.4 billion for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from our Domestic and International segments increased 8% and 20%, respectively, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 compared with the same period of the prior year. The addition of 78 stores in the past 12 months accounted for approximately three fifths of the revenue increase for the quarter. Approximately three tenths of the increase in revenue was due to the 2.8% comparable store sales gain. The remainder of the revenue increase was due to the favorable effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe our comparable store sales performance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 reflected improved in store execution, including our ability to increase the close rate and average ticket, which more than offset customer traffic declines in our stores. In addition, our comparable store sales for the fiscal fourth quarter benefited from our effective advertising and promotional campaigns, as well as the redemption of gift cards and Reward Zone certificates following the holiday selling season. Products that had the largest impact on our fiscal fourth quarter comparable store sales gain included digital televisions, MP3 players, notebook computers, digital cameras, DVDs and appliances. Our gross profit rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 decreased by 0.7% of revenue to 23.5% of revenue, down from 24.2% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. The decline was due primarily to a less profitable revenue mix resulting from increased sales of MP3 players, DVDs and notebook computers, as these products carry a lower gross profit rate. In addition, the gross profit rate for the fiscal fourth quarter was adversely affected by increased promotional activity compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, as well as the impact of product model transitions which resulted in increased markdowns. These factors were partially offset by the increase of services revenue in the revenue mix, as services carry a higher gross profit rate, and benefits from our global sourcing initiative which, reduces the cost of acquiring merchandise. Our SG&A rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 improved by 0.3% of revenue to 15.0% of revenue, down from 15.3% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. The improvement was driven primarily by lower performance based incentive compensation costs, including a change in the vesting assumptions which are based on the performance of our stock compared with companies that comprise the Standard & Poors 500 Index. In addition, our SG&A rate benefited from a favorable settlement with a credit card company. These factors were partially offset by a fourth quarter charge to correct our accounting for leases. 50 Segment Performance Domestic The following table presents selected financial data for the Domestic segment ($ in millions): Three Months Ended (Unaudited) February 26, 2005 February 28, 2004(1) Revenue $ 8,212 $ 7,605 Comparable stores sales % gain(2) 3.1 % 9.9 % Gross profit as % of revenue 23.7 % 24.5 % SG&A as % of revenue 14.7 % 15.1 % Operating income $ 735 $ 712 Operating income as % of revenue 8.9 % 9.4 % (1)During fiscal 2005, we reclassified from SG&A into cost of goods sold certain expenses related to operating our distribution network, consisting primarily of handling and transportation costs related to moving merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. We believe that the revised presentation provides greater consistency for investors by aligning the classification of our distribution costs with the practices of many other retailers. (2)Comprised of revenue at stores and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, Domestic segment operating income was $735 million, or 8.9% of revenue, compared with $712 million, or 9.4% of revenue, for the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in the operating income rate was driven primarily by a 0.8% of revenue decrease in the gross profit rate, and was partially offset by a 0.4% of revenue improvement in the SG&A rate. Domestic segment revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was $8.2 billion, an 8% increase compared with fiscal 2004 fourth quarter revenue of $7.6 billion. More than three fifths of the revenue increase resulted from the addition of 61 U.S. Best Buy stores in the past 12 months. The remainder of the revenue increase resulted from the 3.1% comparable store sales gain. Comparable store sales gains in the consumer electronics, appliances and home office product groups were partially offset by a comparable store sales decline in the entertainment software product group. The high single digit comparable store sales gain in the consumer electronics product group was driven primarily by increased sales of digital televisions, MP3 players and digital cameras, partially offset by softer sales of analog televisions and certain audio products. The appliances product group posted a comparable store sales gain in the low double digits for the fiscal fourth quarter, benefiting primarily from new product introductions, an improved labor model, enhanced customer experience and effective promotions. The low single digit comparable store sales gain in home office products was driven primarily by increased sales of notebook computers, which were partially offset by declines in sales of cellular phones and desktop computers. For the fiscal fourth quarter, the entertainment software product group had a low single digit comparable store sales decrease, driven primarily by declines in sales of video gaming and CDs, which were partially offset by a comparable store sales gain in DVDs. The Domestic segments gross profit rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 decreased by 0.8% of revenue to 23.7% of revenue, down from 24.5% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. The decline was due primarily to a less profitable revenue mix resulting from increased sales of MP3 players, DVDs and notebook computers, as these products carry a lower gross profit rate. In addition, the gross profit rate for the fiscal fourth quarter was adversely affected by increased promotional activity compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, as well as the impact of product model transitions which resulted in increased markdowns. These factors were 51 partially offset by the increase of services revenue in the revenue mix, as services carry a higher gross profit rate, and benefits from our global sourcing initiative, which reduces the cost of acquiring merchandise. The Domestic segments SG&A rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 improved by 0.4% of revenue to 14.7% of revenue, down from 15.1% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. The improvement was driven primarily by lower performance based incentive compensation costs and a favorable settlement with a credit card company. These factors were partially offset by a fourth quarter charge to correct our accounting for leases. International The following table presents selected financial data for the International segment ($ in millions): Three Months Ended (Unaudited) February 26, 2005 February 28, 2004(1) Revenue $ 1,015 $ 844 Comparable stores sales % gain(2) 0.5 % 7.9 % Gross profit as % of revenue 22.4 % 22.4 % SG&A as % of revenue 17.7 % 16.9 % Operating income $ 48 $ 47 Operating income as % of revenue 4.7 % 5.5 % (1)Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on operating income, net earnings, financial position or cash flows. During fiscal 2005, we reclassified from SG&A into cost of goods sold certain expenses related to operating our distribution network, consisting primarily of handling and transportation costs related to moving merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. We believe that the revised presentation provides greater consistency for investors by aligning the classification of our distribution costs with the practices of many other retailers. (2)Comprised of revenue at stores and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. The calculation of the comparable store sales percentage gain excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The International segment reported operating income of $48 million, or 4.7% of revenue, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 compared with operating income of $47 million, or 5.5% of revenue, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. The decrease in the operating income rate was due primarily to an increase in the SG&A rate of 0.8% of revenue compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. International segment revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 increased 20% to $1.0 billion, compared with $844 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Excluding the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, International segment revenue would have increased 12% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. The addition of six Future Shop stores and 11 Canadian Best Buy stores in the past 12 months accounted for nearly all of the revenue increase for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, excluding the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The remainder of the revenue increase, excluding the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, was due to the 0.5% comparable store sales gain. The comparable store sales gain for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was driven primarily by strength in comparable store sales of MP3 players, digital televisions, monitors and notebook computers, and was partially offset by softer comparable store sales in analog televisions and DVD players. The International segments gross profit rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was 22.4% of revenue, consistent with the gross profit rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, gross profit rate improvements, primarily as a result of increased 52 vendor allowances, were offset by an early contract termination penalty paid to a third party product warranty insurance provider. The International segments SG&A rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 increased to 17.7% of revenue, compared with 16.9% of revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. The increase was due primarily to the absence of favorable settlements realized in the prior years fourth quarter related to previously established legal and location closing liabilities. The fiscal 2004 fourth quarter settlements did not have a significant effect on fiscal 2004 fourth quarter earnings from continuing operations. In addition, our fiscal 2005 fourth quarter SG&A rate was affected by a charge to correct our accounting for leases. Outlook for Fiscal 2006 Our outlook for fiscal 2006 is based on information presently available and contains certain assumptions regarding future economic conditions. Differences in actual economic conditions compared with our assumptions could have a material impact on our fiscal 2006 results. Readers are encouraged to read our Current Report on Form 8 K filed with the SEC on March 18, 2004, that describes additional important factors that could cause future results to differ materially from those contemplated by the following forward looking statements. Looking forward to fiscal 2006, we are projecting net earnings in a range of $2.95 to $3.10 per diluted share, including stock based compensation expense of $0.17 per diluted share. We expect the earnings growth to be driven primarily by an increase in revenue of approximately 11% and an improvement in our gross profit rate for fiscal 2006. We expect the increase in our gross profit rate will be driven by continued growth in our services business and increased global sourcing and private label activities, as well as the acceleration of our customer centricity initiative. We are projecting revenue of approximately $30.0 billion for fiscal 2006, compared with revenue of $27.4 billion for fiscal 2005. We expect that improving trends in customer traffic, the opening of 75 to 80 new stores and increasing comparable store sales gains in the second half of fiscal 2006 will drive the revenue growth. For the fiscal year, we are projecting an increase in comparable store sales of 4% to 5%. Our fiscal 2006 outlook assumes an improvement in our operating income rate of approximately 0.2% of revenue, due to the improvement in our gross profit rate, partially offset by an increase in our SG&A rate. The increase in our fiscal 2006 SG&A rate is expected to be driven primarily by additional spending to support expected growth in our services business, as well as costs associated with both the rollout and operation of customer centricity segmented stores. We estimate that our effective income tax rate for fiscal 2006 to be 36.5% to 37.0%. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2006 are expected to be $650 million to $700 million. Of that total, we expect approximately $400 million will support our planned new store openings and various U.S. and Canadian store remodeling projects, including the costs of converting additional stores to our customer centricity model. Specifically, the capital expenditures are expected to support the opening of approximately 60 new U.S. Best Buy stores, 15 Canadian Best Buy stores and two Future Shop stores. We also anticipate opening or converting 150 to 200 stores to our customer centricity operating model and relocating nine U.S. Best Buy and five Future Shop stores. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2006 also are expected to include approximately $200 million in technology investments intended to, among other things, improve our customer service capabilities and increase our operating efficiencies. During fiscal 2006, we plan to continue with our quarterly dividend program. We will continue to evaluate the size of our quarterly dividend based on our strong cash and short term investments position at the end of fiscal 2005, and our expected increase in cash flows during fiscal 2006. We also expect to continue repurchasing our common stock during fiscal 2006 pursuant to a $1.5 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in April 2005. There is no stated expiration date governing the period over which we can make our share repurchases. 53 For first quarter of fiscal 2006, we are anticipating net earnings in a range of $0.27 to $0.32 per diluted share, including stock based compensation expense of $0.05 per diluted share. This earnings range assumes a comparable store sales gain in the low single digits, as well as expenses associated with converting additional stores to our customer centricity operating model and growing our services business.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our debt is not subject to material interest rate volatility risk. The rates on a substantial portion of our debt may be reset, but may not be more than one percentage point higher than the current rates. If the rates on the debt were to be reset one percentage point higher, our annual interest expense would increase by approximately $4 million. We do not currently manage the risk through the use of derivative instruments. We have market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our operations in Canada. At this time, we do not manage the risk through the use of derivative instruments. A 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rate would not have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial position. 54  
 
