FILE:COH/COH-8K-20060621095416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): June 14, 2006 Coach, Inc. --------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Maryland 1-16153 52-2242751 -------------- --------- ------------ (State of (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Incorporation) Identification No.) 516 West 34th Street, New York, NY 10001 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (212) 594-1850 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Item 5.02: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. On June 14, 2006, the Board of Directors of Coach, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Jide Zeitlin, founder of Independent Mobile Infrastructure (Pvt.) Limited, and Susan Kropf, President and Chief Operating Officer of Avon Products, to Coach's Board of Directors. The appointments of Mr. Zeitlin and Ms. Kropf, which are effective as of June 14, 2006, bring the membership of Coach's Board of Directors to nine. Item 8.01: Other Events. The Company maintains a set of Corporate Governance Principles, which are posted on the Company's website. The Company inadvertently omitted from the Proxy Statement for its 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders the web address at which these principles may be viewed, which should have been disclosed in accordance with Section 303A.09 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual. Accordingly, the Company hereby discloses that its Corporate Governance Principles may be viewed at: http://www.coach.com/corporate/governance/ COACH_CorporateGovernancePrinciples.pdf. The information in this item, being furnished pursuant to Item 8.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished herewith: 99.1 Press Release, dated June 15, 2006
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: June 19, 2006 COACH, INC. By: /s/ Carole P. Sadler --------------------------------------- Carole P. Sadler Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX 99.1 Press Release, dated June 15, 2006

Exhibit 99.1 Susan J. Kropf and Jide Zeitlin Join Coach Board of Directors; Brings Board Membership to Nine NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--June 15, 2006--Coach, Inc. (NYSE: COH), a leading marketer of modern classic American accessories, today announced that Susan J. Kropf and Jide Zeitlin have been appointed to Coach's Board of Directors. The appointments of Ms. Kropf and Mr. Zeitlin to the Board brings the membership to nine. Lew Frankfort, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Coach, Inc., said, "We are extremely enthusiastic that Susan Kropf and Jide Zeitlin have agreed to join our Board. As Coach continues to gain international brand awareness and increases its share in the large and growing global market for fine accessories, we are confident that their respective experience, strategic insight and leadership skills will prove particularly valuable to us." Ms. Kropf has been President and Chief Operating Officer of Avon Products (NYSE: AVP) since January 2001, where she has had day-to-day oversight of Avon's worldwide operations. Before that, she was executive vice president and chief operating officer, Avon North America and Global Business Operations, with responsibility for the company's North American operating business unit as well as global marketing, R&D, supply chain operations and information technology. In March 2006, she announced her retirement effective later this year following a 35-year career during which she advanced to become the company's number two executive and one of the most prominent executives in the beauty and direct-selling industries. Ms. Kropf served on Avon's Board of Directors until May of 2006 and currently serves on the Boards of MeadWestvaco Corp., Sherwin Williams Co., and the Wallace Foundation. Upon her appointment, Ms. Kropf noted, "Coach is an extraordinary brand which I've long admired and I'm enthusiastic about joining the Board to help build on the tremendous momentum they have created." Mr. Zeitlin founded Independent Mobile Infrastructure (Pvt.) Limited in 2005 and is currently a private investor focused on Asian, particularly Indian, telecommunication operating assets. Formerly, Mr. Zeitlin was a senior investment banker at Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS). He first joined the firm in 1983, was elected partner in 1996 and held the post of Global Chief Operating Officer of the company's investment banking businesses until his departure at the end of 2005. He is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Amherst College and a member of several not-for-profit boards including: Common Ground Community, Milton Academy, Montefiore Medical Center, Playwrights Horizons and Teach for America, as well as the Harvard Business School Visiting Committee. Upon his appointment, Mr. Zeitlin stated, "I am delighted to be joining the Coach Board. I have known the Company and its management for over a decade and look forward to contributing to the sustained health and future growth of this singular franchise." Coach, with headquarters in New York, is a leading American marketer of fine accessories and gifts for women and men, including handbags, women's and men's small leathergoods, business cases, weekend and travel accessories, footwear, watches, outerwear, sunwear, and related accessories. Coach is sold worldwide through Coach stores, select department stores and specialty stores, through the Coach catalog in the U.S. by calling 1-800-223-8647 and through Coach's website at www.coach.com. Coach's shares are traded on The New York Stock Exchange under the symbol COH. CONTACT: Coach Andrea Shaw Resnick, 212-629-2618


