FILE:COH/COH-8K-20110225070025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):      February 25, 2011
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02:        Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors;  Appointment of Principal Officers.
On February 25, 2011, Coach, Inc. issued a press release announcing that Michael F. Devine, III, will retire as Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer after nearly 10 years with the company.  In order to facilitate a smooth transition, Mr. Devine will not retire until August 2011. The company is commencing a search for his successor.
All information in the press release is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to liability under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01:        Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)     The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
Exhibits.
99.1                   Text of Press Release, dated February 25, 2011
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
4

Exhibit 99.1
Coach CFO Devine to Retire; Search Commencing for Successor
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 25, 2011--Coach, Inc. (NYSE: COH), a leading marketer of modern classic American accessories, today announced Michael F. Devine, III, will retire as Chief Financial Officer after nearly 10 years with the company. In order to facilitate a smooth transition, Mr. Devine is expected to stay until August 2011. The company is commencing a search for his successor.
Mike has played a critical role in developing and executing the strategies that have driven our superior sales and earnings growth during his tenure with the company, said Lew Frankfort, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Coach, Inc.
Leading the finance function at Coach has been immensely gratifying both personally and professionally as the company has rapidly grown into a truly global brand, said Mike Devine. The companys prospects have never been brighter and I look forward to watching its continued success as I pursue personal interests and spend more time with my family.
Coach, with headquarters in New York, is a leading American marketer of fine accessories and gifts for women and men, including handbags, womens and mens small leathergoods, business cases, weekend and travel accessories, footwear, watches, outerwear, scarves, sunwear, fragrance, jewelry and related accessories. Coach is sold worldwide through Coach stores, select department stores and specialty stores, through the Coach catalog in the U.S. by calling 1-800-223-8647 and through Coachs website at . Coachs shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol COH.
www.coach.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "are positioned to," "continue," "project," "guidance," target, "forecast," "anticipated," or comparable terms. Future results may differ materially from management's current expectations, based upon risks and uncertainties such as expected economic trends, the ability to anticipate consumer preferences, the ability to control costs, etc. Please refer to Coachs latest Annual Report on Form 10-K for a complete list of risk factors.
CONTACT: Coach, Inc. Andrea Shaw Resnick, 212-629-2618 SVP Investor Relations & Corporate Communications


