FILE:COH/COH-8K-20120802070019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
______
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):    August 2, 2012
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 - 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On August 2, 2012, the Board of Directors of Coach, Inc. (Coach or the Company) increased the size of the Board to eight members and elected Stephanie Tilenius as a director of the Company, effective as of August 2, 2012.  Additionally Ms. Tilenius was named to the Audit Committee, the Human Resources Committee and the Governance and Nominations Committee of the Companys Board of Directors.
Ms. Tilenius recently joined Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a venture capital firm, as Executive-in-Residence, primarily focusing on companies within its Digital Growth Fund.  Previously, Ms. Tilenius was an executive at Google, Inc., where she was vice president of global commerce and payments overseeing digital commerce, product search and payments. Prior to joining Google, she was at eBay Inc. for nine years, ultimately as senior vice president of eBay.com and global product.  Ms. Tilenius was also a co-founder of PlanetRx.com and has worked at other technology and business enterprises. She is on the Board of IronPlanet, Inc. and Chair of the Advisory Board of the Harvard Business School California Research Center. She holds a BA and MA from Brandeis University, and an MBA from Harvard.
In connection with her appointment to the Board and in accordance with the Companys standard compensation arrangements for non-employee directors, Ms. Tilenius will be entitled to an annual cash retainer of $60,000 as well as an annual equity grant with a grant date fair market value of $150,000 made on the date of Coachs annual meeting of stockholders, with 50% of the value of the award made in the form of stock options and 50% made in the form of restricted stock units.  These equity awards vest in full on the earlier of Coachs next annual meeting of stockholders or one year from the date of grant, subject to the directors continued service until that time.  In addition, Ms. Tilenius will be granted an initial Coach equity award with a grant date fair market value of $150,000 on August 2, 2012, with 50% of the value of the award made in the form of stock options and 50% made in the form of restricted stock units. These initial grants will vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date.   There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Tilenius and any other person pursuant to which she was selected as a director, and there have been no transactions since the beginning of the Companys last fiscal year, or are currently proposed, regarding Ms. Tilenius that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)    The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
Exhibits.
99.1                Press Release, dated August 2, 2012
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Stephanie Tilenius Joins Coach Board of Directors; Brings Digital and Ecommerce Expertise to Coach Board
Board Membership Now at Eight
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 2, 2012--Coach, Inc. (NYSE: COH, SEHK: 6388), a leading marketer of modern classic American accessories, today announced that Stephanie Tilenius of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers (KPCB) has been appointed to Coach's Board of Directors. The appointment of Ms. Tilenius to the Board brings the membership to eight.
Lew Frankfort, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Coach, Inc., said, "Were delighted that Stephanie will be joining our Board. Her experience in the consumer internet sector, along with her strategic insight and leadership skills will prove particularly valuable to us."
Upon her appointment, Ms. Tilenius noted, "Coach is an extraordinary consumer brand on and offline and I'm excited to join the Board to help build on the tremendous foundation they have created and capitalize on the opportunities ahead."
Ms. Tilenius recently joined Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a venture capital firm, as Executive-in-Residence, primarily focusing on companies within its Digital Growth Fund. Previously, Ms. Tilenius was an executive at Google, Inc., where she was vice president of global commerce and payments overseeing digital commerce, product search and payments. Prior to joining Google, she was at eBay Inc. for nine years, ultimately as SVP of eBay.com and global product. Ms. Tilenius was also a co-founder of PlanetRx.com and has worked at other technology and business enterprises. She is on the Board of IronPlanet, Inc. and Chair of the Advisory Board of the Harvard Business School California Research Center. She holds a BA and MA from Brandeis University, and an MBA from Harvard.
Coach, with headquarters in New York, is a leading American marketer of fine accessories and gifts for women and men, including handbags, mens bags, womens and mens small leathergoods, weekend and travel accessories, footwear, watches, outerwear, scarves, sunwear, fragrance, jewelry and related accessories. Coach is sold worldwide through Coach stores, select department stores and specialty stores, and through Coachs website at . Coachs common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol COH and Coachs Hong Kong Depositary Receipts are traded on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited under the symbol 6388.
www.coach.com
Neither the Hong Kong Depositary Receipts nor the Hong Kong Depositary Shares evidenced thereby have been or will be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and may not be offered or sold in the United States or to, or for the account of, a U.S. Person (within the meaning of Regulation S under the Securities Act), absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements. Hedging transactions involving these securities may not be conducted unless in compliance with the Securities Act.
CONTACT: Coach Analysts & Media: Andrea Shaw Resnick, 212-629-2618 SVP Investor Relations and Corporate Communications


