FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20031007104027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in this Item 12 of this Current Report is being furnished in accordance with SEC Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47583.
 
The information, including the exhibits attached hereto, in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release of PepsiCo, Inc., dated October 7, 2003, reporting PepsiCo, Inc.'s financial results for the 12 and 36 weeks ended September 6, 2003.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PepsiCo delivered another quarter of solid double-digit earnings growth, with reported earnings per share for the third quarter of 2003 up over 15% to $0.62, on a fully diluted basis. Year to date, earnings per share were up 17%, to a total of $1.64, on a fully diluted basis.
PURCHASE, NY (Oct. 7, 2003)
 
A reduction in costs relating to the Quaker merger contributed almost 3 percentage points to the earnings per share increase for the quarter. Year to date, lower merger costs contributed almost 4 percentage points.
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Reinemund said:
 
"This was a terrific quarter. We had strong, balanced performance across the portfolio  on both the top and bottom lines."
"Our two largest domestic Divisions, Frito-Lay North America and PepsiCo Beverages North America, both had strong quarters. Both had good volume growth due to strong incremental innovation combined with excellent execution in the core brands. Revenues grew well ahead of volume due to positive price/product mix, combined with more efficient promotional spending."
 
"PepsiCo International delivered strong growth across the board, with volume in snacks and beverages growing more than twice the rate of the North America businesses. I believe the international businesses are well positioned to continue this accelerated rate of growth. I am really excited about the new integrated international organization that we are building."
 
"Based on the strength of this quarter and the current outlook for the fourth quarter, PepsiCo should deliver on the higher end of our current guidance. Full year 2003 guidance is now reported EPS of $2.19, including 2 cents of merger costs."
 
Information in this release compares 2003 results to 2002 results that were adjusted to reflect PepsiCo's previously announced reporting changes. A reconciliation of the previously reported and adjusted 2002 results is posted on the Company's website at www.pepsico.com in the "Investors" section under "Press Releases" and was included as an attachment to Form 8-K on April 10, 2003. Please also see the note on presentation at the end of this release.
 
Summary of Total PepsiCo Results
 
Volume continued to be solid, with total servings of products sold worldwide up 5% in the third quarter of 2003 and almost 5% year to date. Servings of snacks worldwide grew 6% for the quarter and 5% year to date, while worldwide servings of beverages grew 5% for the quarter and 5% year to date.
 
Division net revenues for the third quarter rose 9% to $6.8 billion, while division operating profit rose 9% to $1.5 billion. The gains reflect the volume increases, as well as positive product mix and effective net pricing. Currency exchange rates did not have a significant impact on net revenue or profit growth for the quarter.
 
Year to date, division net revenues increased 7% to $19 billion and division operating profits grew 8%, to more than $4 billion.
 
Total operating profit, which includes corporate unallocated expenses and merger costs, increased 12% for the quarter and nearly 13% year to date. Total net income increased 13% for the quarter and 14% year to date.
 
Frito-Lay North America (FLNA)
(In millions)
 
 
Frito-Lay North America had excellent top line results in the third quarter with 4% volume growth, gaining more than one share point in salty snack market share. Volume grew 4% year to date.
 
Growth in the "Core" salty snack business during the quarter came primarily from:
 
Strong "Add More" macro-snack growth was driven principally by innovation, including:
 
Across FLNA's salty and "Add More" macro-snack businesses, the volume of Better-For-You products collectively grew in the high teens in the third quarter, and the volume of Fun-For-You products grew low single digits. Year to date, the volume growth for Better-For-You is approximately 25% and Fun-For-You is in the low single digits. Better-For-You products now make up over 10% of FLNA's volume on both a third quarter and full-year basis.
 
The healthy 7% third quarter growth in net revenue reflects increased volume, selective tactical pricing and positive mix. In addition, FLNA continued to be more efficient versus last year on promotional spending in its core salty snack business. Year to date, revenues are up 6%.
 
Operating profits grew over 8% in the third quarter, ahead of revenue and year-to-date profit growth of 7%, reflecting the volume gains, net price realization, and productivity. However, higher than anticipated input costs that we discussed in the second quarter continued into the third quarter, including:
 
 
Toward the end of the third quarter, Frito-Lay introduced new Lay's Stax Potato Crisps in four flavors stacked in a portable, resealable, crush-resistant container. This exciting new product is now in full nationwide distribution. Lay's Stax Potato Crisps are supported by a fully integrated launch program, including print and television advertising featuring Dana Carvey that kicked off during the recent Emmy awards.
 
In addition to Stax, FLNA's marketing calendar for the balance of the year includes a solid line up of activities, highlighted by Power of One Holiday promotions featuring the Universal Studios movie "Monsters" at Halloween and the new live action "Cat in The Hat" movie starring Mike Myers at Christmas.
 
PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA)
(In millions)
 
 
PepsiCo Beverages North America posted solid top-line results in the quarter, with volume up 3% in total and growth across the portfolio.
 
Carbonated soft drink (CSD) volume increased over 2% in the quarter, boosted by innovation, including:
 
Pepsi Beverages North America's portfolio of non-carbonated beverages grew a strong 4% in the third quarter, driven by:
 
Year to date, PepsiCo Beverages North America volume growth was 2.5%, with CSDs growing 1% and non-carbonated drinks growing 6%.
 
PepsiCo remains the market leader in the liquid refreshment beverage category in U.S. measured channels. During the third quarter, PepsiCo was up almost one share point versus year ago with a 26.6% share, a good improvement versus the year-to-date share of 25.8%.
 
PepsiCo Beverages revenue in North America increased 6% for the quarter, due primarily to volume increases and favorable product mix. Third quarter operating profit increased 12%, also due to higher volume and improved product mix, aided by operating cost leverage. Year to date, revenues increased 6% and operating profit increased 10%.
 
The fourth quarter marketing calendar for PepsiCo Beverages North America is robust, featuring new product and packaging initiatives, plus our traditional holiday promotions:
 
PepsiCo International (PI)
(In millions)
 
 
PepsiCo International had superb volume growth in the third quarter across all regions, with:
 
Year-to-date, international snack volume grew 6% and international beverage volume increased 7%.
 
PepsiCo International revenue grew 16% in the third quarter, largely driven by organic volume growth. Favorable foreign exchange (largely the Euro and Pound) and acquisitions each contributed approximately 2 points of growth. On a year-to-date basis, revenues grew 11%, with acquisitions contributing nearly 2 points of growth and a negligible foreign exchange impact.
 
PepsiCo International profit grew 12% in the third quarter, largely driven by volume. A modest benefit from acquisitions was more than offset by negative foreign exchange, with the net of both these items reducing profit growth by nearly two points. International profits grew slower than sales in the third quarter due to certain reserve actions taken on potentially unrecoverable beverage assets, which reduced profit growth by approximately 10 points.
 
Quaker Foods North America (QFNA)
(In millions)
 
 
In the third quarter, Quaker Foods North America volume declined 1.5%, as lower rice and pasta volumes more than offset growth in the breakfast business. Year-to-date volume increased 2%.
 
Net revenues declined less than volume due to higher effective pricing on ready-to-eat cereals. On a year-to-date basis, net revenue increased 1%.
 
Third quarter operating profit declined 7%, principally due to volume softness, the negative impact on margin due to product mix, and a tough overlap of 23% profit growth in the third quarter of 2002. Year-to-date operating profit was unchanged from the prior year.
 
Corporate
 
. Corporate unallocated expenses declined 10% in the third quarter to $87 million. On a year-to-date basis, corporate unallocated expenses declined 4% to $247 million.
Corporate Unallocated Expense
 
. Third quarter bottling equity income increased 4%, reflecting increased earnings from our bottlers, partially offset by an unfavorable comparison to the one-time items related to our international bottling investments. Year-to-date, equity income is down 2%.
Equity Income
 
Third quarter interest expense declined by 8%, or $3.4 million, due to the retirement of maturing debt. On a year-to-date basis, interest expense decreased by 3%, or $4 million.
.
Interest Expense
 
. Third quarter interest income increased by 48%, or $2.7 million, driven by gains in the performance of certain investment funds. These investment funds are in place to largely offset deferred compensation expenses that are recorded in Corporate Unallocated expense. These gains were partially offset by the effect of lower interest rates on the balance of PepsiCo's investment portfolio. On a year-to-date basis, interest income increased 30%, or $7 million.
Interest Income
 
. The tax rate was lower due the impact of our new concentrate plant, as well as a reduction in merger costs, partially offset by the impact of the International business reserve actions which are not fully tax deductible.
Tax Rate
 
. The weighted average diluted number of shares outstanding during the third quarter of 2003 decreased more than 2%, to 1,751 million shares, compared to the third quarter of 2002.
Shares Outstanding
 
. The integration of the merger with The Quaker Oats Company continues to proceed as planned. Third quarter merger costs of approximately $9 million were incurred versus $33 million in the prior year. The segregation of Quaker merger costs will end with the fourth quarter 2003 results.
Quaker Merger
 
. Cash flow from operating activities was $3.5 billion year-to-date, compared to $3.4 billion for the same period in 2002. Year-to-date capital spending was $844 million. After the close of the third quarter, the Company made discretionary contributions of $500 million to our pension plans, consistent with our intent to have our major qualified plans fully funded.
Cash Flow
 
. Return on invested capital (ROIC), improved nearly 2 percentage points from year-end to over 28%, principally due to share buybacks and profit growth, as well as lower merger expenses.
ROIC
 
Miscellaneous
 
. In order to help investors compare our performance in 2003 to our performance in 2002, our historical information was adjusted to reflect the following:
Note on Presentation
 
 
 
 
 
. At 11:00 a.m. (Eastern time) today, management will host a conference call with investors to discuss third quarter results. For details, visit our site on the Internet at .
Conference Call
www.pepsico.com
 
. This release presents PepsiCo's reported financial results. On the conference call referenced above and, from time to time, in discussing these financial results, management may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of any such non-GAAP measures to PepsiCo's reported financials can be found under "Press Releases" on the Company's website at in the "Investors" section.
Reconciliation
www.pepsico.com
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This release contains statements concerning PepsiCo's expectations for future performance. Any such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. As such, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results and performance may be significantly different from expectations. Please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of specific risks that may affect our performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


