FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20030710103208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in this Item 9 of this Current Report is being furnished pursuant to "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K in accordance with SEC Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47583.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release of PepsiCo, Inc., dated July 10, 2003, reporting PepsiCo, Inc.'s financial results for the 24 weeks ended June 14, 2003.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
PepsiCo delivered another quarter of solid double-digit earnings growth, with reported earnings per share for the second quarter of 2003 up 19% to $0.58, on a fully diluted basis. Year to date, earnings per share were up 18%, to a total of $1.02, on a fully diluted basis.
PURCHASE, NY (July 10, 2003)
 
A reduction in costs relating to the Quaker merger contributed 5 percentage points of growth to the earnings per share increase, both for the quarter and year to date.
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Reinemund said: "We continue to be proud of our performance in this difficult global macro-economic environment. Our terrific portfolio of businesses gives us the flexibility to deliver solid financial results while investing for the future. We're focused on driving top line growth through innovation and by leveraging our strong brands and go-to-market systems. Domestically, we had excellent volume and revenue growth at our Frito-Lay snack business, while PepsiCo Beverages delivered significant sequential volume and revenue improvement compared with the first quarter. Internationally, we also had excellent top line growth, with strong volume and revenue growth in both snacks and beverages."
 
Reinemund continued, "These strong top line results combined to allow us to cover inflation, make selective investments in our business and still deliver another quarter of solid double-digit earnings per share growth. And we're on track to deliver reported EPS of $2.16 to $2.19 for the full year 2003, which includes about 3 cents of merger costs."
 
Information in this release compares 2003 results to 2002 results that were adjusted to reflect PepsiCo's previously announced reporting changes. The adjusted 2002 results are posted on the Company's website at and were included as an attachment to Form 8-K on April 10, 2003. Please also see the note on presentation at the end of this release.
www.pepsico.com
 
 
Summary of Total PepsiCo Results
 
Volume continued to be solid with total servings of products sold worldwide up 5% in the second quarter of 2003 and 4% year to date. Servings of snacks worldwide grew 4% for the quarter and year to date, while worldwide servings of beverages grew more than 5% for the quarter and 4% year to date.
 
Division net revenues for the second quarter rose more than 7% to $6.5 billion, while division operating profit rose 9% to $1.5 billion. The gains reflect the volume increases, as well as positive effective net pricing. Currency exchange rates did not have a significant impact on net revenue or profits for the quarter.
 
Year to date, division net revenues increased 6% to $12 billion and division operating profits grew 8%, to almost $2.7 billion.
 
Total operating profit, which includes corporate unallocated expenses and merger costs, increased 13% both for the quarter and year to date. Total net income increased 15% for the quarter and 14% year to date.
 
 
Frito-Lay North America (FLNA)
(in millions)
 
Frito-Lay North America had excellent top line results in the second quarter, gaining more than a half point of salty snack market share with almost 4% pound growth. Volume grew 4% on a year to date basis.
 
 
Growth in the "core" salty snack business came primarily from:
 
 
 
 
 
Strong "Add More" macro-snack growth was driven principally by innovation, including:
 
 
 
 
Year-to-date, FLNA's portfolio of "wholesome snacks", including granola and cereal bars, treats, toaster pastries and fruit snacks, gained share in the IRI measured Grocery channel. Across FLNA's salty and macro-snack business, the volume of better-for-you products collectively grew 28%.
 
The very healthy 6% second quarter growth in net revenues reflects the increased volume, as well as the positive effective net pricing that came from innovation and growth in better-for-you products, many of which have a higher net price per pound. In addition, FLNA was much more efficient on promotional spending in its core salty snack business.
 
Operating profits grew in line with net revenue, reflecting the volume gains and net price realization. FLNA had excellent productivity throughout the second quarter, and the overall productivity program is on track. However, FLNA made some selective investments and had some higher than anticipated costs, including:
 
 
 
 
 
FLNA has more new salty and macro-snack product introductions planned for the third quarter, including:
 
 
 
 
 
FLNA's marketing calendar for the third quarter has a solid plan of promotional activity, including:
 
 
 
 
PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA)
(in millions)
 
Total volume for PepsiCo Beverages North America for the second quarter of 2003 increased more than 4% percent, a significant sequential improvement over the first quarter.
 
In the second quarter, PBNA's portfolio of non-carbonated beverages (non-carbs) grew 8%, driven by:
 
 
 
 
Carbonated soft drink (CSD) volume increased 3% in the quarter, driven by:
 
 
 
 
 
Year to date, volume growth was 2%, with non-carbs growing 8% and CSDs essentially flat.
 
Net revenue increased more than 7% for the quarter, reflecting higher effective net pricing and the volume increases. The higher effective net pricing includes the impact of a shift in mix from CSDs to non-carbonated beverages. Second quarter operating profit increased 10%, also due principally to higher effective net pricing and volume. Year to date, net sales increased 6% and operating profit increased more than 8%.
 
For the summer selling season, the beverage division has a strong marketing calendar, with news in both carbonated and non-carbonated beverages, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
PepsiCo International (PI)
(in millions)
 
 
PepsiCo International had excellent volume growth in the second quarter, with:
 
 
 
On a year to date basis, international beverage volume increased 6% and international snack volume increased 4%
.
 
PepsiCo International net revenue grew 10% in the second quarter, driven principally by volume, but also by an improvement in effective net pricing and more favorable country mix. PepsiCo International's 14% second quarter operating profit growth was driven by the positive pricing and by the volume increases. On a year to date basis, net sales grew 8% and operating profits grew 13%.
 
The impact in the second quarter of currency exchange rates on net revenue was negligible and on operating profit was modestly negative, as strengthening in the British pound and the Euro was largely offset by declines in the Mexican peso and other Latin American currencies.
 
In the third quarter of 2003, the division has a solid marketing calendar planned. Snack news includes:
 
 
 
 
Beverage news includes:
 
 
 
 
 
Quaker Foods North America (QFNA)
(in millions)
 
In the second quarter, Quaker Foods North America volume increased almost 3%, led by the breakfast businesses. Growth was fueled by the national launch of new Quaker Breakfast Squares, hand-held squares with all the nutrition of a bowl of instant Quaker oatmeal, and with no preparation required. Year to date volume increased 4%.
 
Net revenue increased 1% for the quarter, reflecting the volume gains and an increase in prices on ready-to-eat cereals, which were partially offset by higher trade spending associated with a shift in product mix and Golden Grain competitive defense. On a year to date basis, net revenue increased 3%.
 
Second quarter operating profit declined 1%, principally due to higher trade costs, higher input costs (principally oats and energy), and also due to a very difficult comparison with the 33% growth in the same quarter in 2002. Year-to-date operating profit increased 4%.
 
In the third quarter, Quaker plans to initiate ad support behind the Breakfast Squares and, in August, Quaker plans to sponsor another "Breakfast" promotion, in which Quaker products will be promoted together with Tropicana products in stores throughout the United States and Canada.
 
 
Corporate
 
.    Corporate unallocated expenses increased 9% in the second quarter to $84 million. This increase reflects the impact of higher expenses relating to deferred compensation programs and employee benefits, and investments in productivity programs such as the PepsiCo Business Transformation project, partially offset by a legal settlement gain. On a year-to-date basis, corporate unallocated expenses were down 1%.
Corporate Unallocated Expense
 
.    Equity income increased 2% in the second quarter, reflecting favorable comparisons from our international bottling investments, offset by the soft performances of The Pepsi Bottling Group and PepsiAmericas.
Equity Income
 
.    Second quarter net interest expense decreased 42%, driven by gains on investment funds that are lapping losses reported last year. These investments are in place to offset the expense related to deferred compensation programs. Net interest expense on debt balances increased 7% due to higher net debt levels from the resumption of our share repurchase activity, and the effect of lower interest rates on the balance of PepsiCo's investment portfolio. On a year-to-date basis, net interest expense decreased 8%.
Net Interest
 
.    The weighted average diluted number of shares outstanding during the second quarter of 2003 decreased 3.5% to 1,746 million shares, compared to the second quarter of 2002.
Shares Outstanding
 
    The integration of the merger with The Quaker Oats Company continues to proceed as planned. Second quarter merger costs of approximately $11 million were incurred versus $65 million in the prior year.
Quaker Merger and Realization of Synergies.
 
.    Cash flow from operating activities was $1.7 billion year-to-date, compared to $2 billion for the same period in 2002, reflecting an unfavorable comparison with the timing of customer funding and other payments in 2002. Cash flow from operating activities, net of capital spending, increased substantially compared to the first half of 2001. Capital spending increased to $578 million, reflecting the investments in the Stax launch and construction of a new concentrate production facility.
Cash Flow
 
.    Return on invested capital (ROIC), improved almost 150 basis points from year-end to 28%, principally due to profit growth, and also reflecting lower merger expenses.
ROIC
 
 
Miscellaneous
 
. In order to help investors compare our performance in 2003 to our performance in 2002, our historical information was adjusted to reflect the following:
Note on Presentation
 
 
 
 
 
 
.    At 11:00 a.m. (Eastern time) today, management will host a conference call with investors to discuss second quarter results. For details, visit our site on the Internet at .
Conference Call
www.pepsico.com
 
.    This release presents PepsiCo's reported financial results. On the conference call referenced above and, from time to time, in discussing these financial results, management may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of any such non-GAAP measures to PepsiCo's reported financials can be found under "Financial Releases" on the Company's website at in the "Investors" section.
Reconciliation
www.pepsico.com
 
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This release contains statements concerning PepsiCo's expectations for future performance. Any such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. As such, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results and performance may be significantly different from expectations. Please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of specific risks that may affect our performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


