FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20030410154914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in this report is furnished pursuant to Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information contained in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
PepsiCo Posts Historical Financial Information Reflecting Organization and Calendar Changes
 
 PepsiCo today said it has posted on its website at 2002 and 2001 financial information reflecting the following previously announced adjustments:
PURCHASE, NY
(April 10, 2003)
www.pepsico.com
 
 
 
 
 
These changes do affect full year total volume, total net sales, total operating profit, net income or earnings per share. The changes simply adjust results by quarter and by division.
NOT
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
April 10, 2003                                                                     
 
As mentioned in previous earnings conference calls, starting with the first quarter of 2003 our financial statements will reflect:
 
 
 
 
 
These changes do affect full year total volume, total net sales, total operating profit, net income or earnings per share. The changes simply adjust results by quarter and by division.
NOT
 
To present prior year information on the same basis as 2003, we have attached Excel schedules which show:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These schedules are also posted on our website at .
www.pepsico.com
 
Please notice that quarterly 2002 reported and comparable EPS, as adjusted, differ from the previously communicated EPS numbers. Full year 2002 reported and comparable EPS remain unchanged. To the extent that your models provide quarterly historical or 2003 details, you may wish to adjust your comparative results to avoid any confusion when we issue our first quarter results on April 17.

 
 
 
Note:    Indices based on unrounded amounts.
Schedule II
 
 
 
Note: Indices based on unrounded amounts.
 
See accompanying reconciliation to reported results.
 
Schedule III
 
 
 
 
Servings are calculated based on the following per serving amounts:
 
 
 
 
Schedule IV
 
 
 
 
Schedule V
 
 
 
For further information, see "Items Affecting Comparability" on page 30 in our 2002 Annual Report.
 
Comparable amounts are presented to reflect our business trends without certain items and with consistent treatment of other changes, such as changes in accounting principles. As a result, our comparable presentation facilitates comparison with prior periods. Reported amounts reflect our results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Comparable results have not been prepared under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and should not be considered an alternative measure to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Our comparable results exclude the costs associated with our merger with Quaker and other impairment and restructuring costs, and include the impact in 2001 of the following 2002 accounting changes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule VI
 
 
* Volume is reported as stated for the Gatorade and Tropicana brands and is reported based on monthly bottler case sales for products distributed by our bottlers (Q1-3 months, Q2-2 months, Q3-3 months, Q4-4 months).
 
** The operating results and volume of our largest international snack businesses are reported based on fiscal periods. However, the operating results and volume of a small portion of our international snack business and all of our international beverages business are reported on a monthly calendar with Q1-2 months, Q2-3 months, Q3-3 months, Q4-4 months. Monthly reporting is used where necessary to facilitate compliance with statutory requirements. Note that volume for international beverages was formerly reported based on Q1-3 months, Q2-2 months, Q3-3 months, Q4-4 months.
 


