FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20030417101259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in this Item 9 of the Current Report is being furnished pursuant to "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K in accordance with SEC Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47583.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release of PepsiCo, Inc., dated April 17, 2003, reporting PepsiCo, Inc.'s financial results for the 12 weeks ended March 22, 2003.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
PepsiCo continued to deliver consistent and solid double-digit earnings growth, with earnings per share for the first quarter of 2003 up 17% to $0.45, on a diluted basis.
PURCHASE, NY (April 17, 2003)
 
A reduction in costs relating to the Quaker merger contributed 4 percentage points to the earnings per share increase, and the gain on the sale of Quaker's Mission pasta business, which was approximately $16 million on an after-tax basis, contributed another 2 percentage points to the increase.
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Reinemund said: "We're very pleased with our earnings growth this quarter. All of our divisions contributed to that growth. We faced a tough global macro-economic environment and a difficult comparison with last year's 16% earnings per share growth in the first quarter. We're off to a good start on the year with healthy businesses and lots of exciting new products and marketing programs to drive our growth over the balance of the year."
 
Information in this release compares 2003 results to 2002 results that were adjusted to reflect PepsiCo's previously announced reporting changes. To facilitate comparison of this quarter's growth rates with the adjusted prior year growth rates, the Company has included the adjusted prior year growth rates in the segment summary tables. The adjusted 2002 results are also posted on the Company's website at and were included as an attachment to Form 8-K on April 10, 2003. Please also see the note on presentation at the end of this release.
www.pepsico.com
 
Summary of Total PepsiCo Results
 
Total servings of our products sold worldwide increased 3% in the first quarter of 2003. Servings of snacks worldwide grew 3% for the quarter, and worldwide servings of beverages also grew 3%.
 
Division net revenue grew 5% for the quarter to over $5.5 billion. On a currency neutral basis, total division net revenues rose 6%.
 
Division operating profit rose 7% to almost $1.2 billion, a strong performance given the comparison with the robust 14% growth in the first quarter of 2002. On a currency neutral basis, total division operating profit increased 8%. Reported total operating profits, which includes merger-related expenses, corporate unallocated expenses and the gain on the sale of Mission pasta, increased 13%.
 
Total net income grew 13% to $777 million for the quarter, compared to 16% net income growth in the prior year.
 
 
Frito-Lay North America (FLNA)
(in millions)
 
 
Frito-Lay North America is off to a good start this year, with solid 4% pound growth in the first quarter on top of the 6% volume growth in the first quarter of 2002.
 
Growth in the "Core" salty snack business came primarily from:
 
Strong "Add More" macro-snack growth was driven principally by Quaker's Fruit & Oatmeal line-up, including new Toastables, and double-digit growth in Quaker Chewy Granola bars. Across FLNA's salty and macro-snack business, better-for-you products collectively grew over 25%.
 
Volume growth was also driven by successful promotions, which, in the first quarter, included two Power of One promotions with PepsiCo's North American beverage business:
 
 
Growth in net revenues of 5% reflects the increased volume, as well as the positive effective net pricing that came from new products and growth in better-for-you products, both of which have a higher net price per pound, and targeted strategic pricing actions.
 
Operating profits grew 6%, on top of 12% growth in the first quarter of 2002. The growth was driven by volume gains and net price realization, which came in spite of weak sales of single serve products. Operating profits were also impacted by higher energy costs.
 
FLNA has a very strong line-up of new salty and macro-snack products for the second quarter, including:
 
 
 
 
 
The roll out of Lay's Stax will be delayed, however, this strong line-up of innovation is expected to more than offset the impact from the delay.
 
In addition, FLNA will continue to roll out the innovation introduced at the end of Q1, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
FLNA's marketing calendar for the second quarter is led by promotional activity tied in to the launch of Disney's Pixar film "Finding Nemo" and NASCAR racing properties in a Power of One promotion with Gatorade.
 
 
 
PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA)
(in millions)
 
 
Total volume for PepsiCo Beverages North America for the first quarter of 2003 increased approximately half a percent, lapping strong 5% growth in the first quarter of 2002. The growth was all organic and reflected 8% volume growth in non-carbonated beverages (non-carbs), offset by carbonated soft drink (CSD) volume, which declined by 2%.
 
The first-quarter 8% increase in PBNA's non-carb portfolio was driven by:
 
 
 
 
The CSD volume was driven by declines in the Pepsi and Mountain Dew trademarks, both of which were lapping news that drove strong 4% growth in the first quarter of 2002. CSD volume was positively impacted by:
 
 
 
Net revenues increased 4% and operating profit increased 5%, in each case due principally to volume and higher effective net pricing.
 
Going forward, the division has a strong marketing calendar planned for the second quarter, with news in both carbonated and non-carbonated beverages, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quaker Foods North America (QFNA)
(in millions)
 
 
In the first quarter, Quaker Foods North America volume increased a very strong 5%, led by the breakfast businesses, especially Quaker Oatmeal and Life cereal. The Company's first ever "Breakfast" promotion, in which Quaker and Tropicana products were promoted together in stores throughout the United States and Canada, drove the strong breakfast growth. Colder weather also contributed to the growth in Oatmeal.
 
Net revenues increased 4% for the quarter. This growth was stronger than in the previous year, but softer than volume growth due to the increased promotional spending associated with the "Breakfast" promotion and mix. Operating profit increased a very strong 7%, lapping extraordinary 29% growth in the previous year. QFNA's operating profit growth benefited from lower manufacturing costs.
 
PepsiCo International (PI)
(in millions)
 
 
PepsiCo International had solid volume growth in the first quarter, with:
 
 
 
 
PepsiCo International net revenues grew 5% in the first quarter, 9% on a currency neutral basis, driven principally by volume, but also by an improvement in effective net pricing, especially in Mexico. PepsiCo International's 12% first quarter operating profit growth was driven by the positive pricing and by the volume increases. On a currency neutral basis, first quarter operating profits grew a strong 18%.
 
In the case of both net revenues and operating profits, increases were partially offset by a significant net adverse impact from foreign exchange rates (primarily the Mexican Peso) and poor macro-economic conditions in Latin America and the Middle East.
 
In the second quarter of 2003, the division has a solid marketing calendar planned. Snack news includes:
 
 
 
Beverage news includes:
 
 
 
 
Corporate
 
.    Corporate unallocated expenses decreased 9% in the first quarter to $76MM. This decrease reflects the impact of lapping higher expenses in the first quarter of 2002.
Corporate Unallocated Expense
 
.    The Company realized a one-time gain of $25 million, or approximately $16 million after-tax, on the sale of Quaker's Mission pasta business.
Divested Businesses
 
.    Equity income decreased 44% in the first quarter, reflecting the soft performance of Pepsi Bottling Group and PepsiAmericas.
Equity Income
 
.    First quarter net interest expense increased 58% due to higher net debt and lower investment rates than in the previous year.
Net Interest
 
 
.    The weighted average diluted number of shares outstanding during the first quarter of 2003 decreased 3% to 1,744 million shares, compared to the first quarter of 2002.
Shares Outstanding
 
    The integration of the merger with The Quaker Oats Company continues to proceed as planned. Merger costs of approximately $11 million were incurred versus $36 million in the prior year. The Company is on track to realize its accelerated goal of achieving an aggregate of $400 million in synergies by the end of fiscal year 2004. To the extent incremental synergies become available, they are expected to be judiciously re-invested in growth-driving opportunities.
.
Quaker Merger and Realization of Synergies
 
Miscellaneous
 
.    In order to help investors compare our performance in 2003 to our performance in 2002, our historical information was adjusted to reflect the following:
Note on Presentation
 
 
 
 
 
.    At 11:00 a.m. (Eastern time) today, management will host a conference call with investors to discuss first quarter results and our outlook for full year 2003. For details, visit our site on the Internet at .
Conference Call
www.pepsico.com
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This release contains statements concerning PepsiCo's expectations for future performance. Any such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. As such, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results and performance may be significantly different from expectations. Please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of specific risks that may affect our performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


