FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20040415095736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PepsiCo delivered a strong start to 2004 with another quarter of double-digit earnings growth, as earnings per share for the first quarter of 2004 were up 15% to $0.46, on a fully diluted basis. Top-line momentum continued as revenues grew 11%.
PURCHASE, NY (April 15, 2004)
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Reinemund said, "I am very pleased with our start in 2004. The first quarter was just outstanding, with a second consecutive quarter of double-digit division revenue growth. Across the businesses, we're producing strong growth.
 
"This great start positions the company well to deliver another strong year in 2004. In North America, our innovation is delivering on expectations, and increased support behind big core brands like Pepsi and Lay's is working. This balanced investment between innovative new products and big brands is driving excellent profit growth. In our international businesses, PepsiCo had very strong growth, with revenue up nearly 20%, aided by favorable foreign currency."
 
Reinemund continued, "Our outlook for 2004 remains very positive. We are targeting 2004 EPS to be approximately $2.29, and cash from operating activities to be about
 
$4.9 billion. After net capital expenditures, we expect operating cash flows to be approximately $3.4 billion. Furthermore, as we just recently announced, PepsiCo will step up the cash returned to shareholders through both a dividend increase and a more aggressive share repurchase program."
 
NOTE TO INVESTORS
 
PepsiCo's financial results include stock option expense. In 2004, the operating divisions are measured based on plans that include stock option expense, and their financial results in this release, for both 2003 and 2004, are reported accordingly. Historical data that assigns stock option expense to the appropriate operating division is available for the years 2001-2003 on the Company's website at www.pepsico.com, in the "Investors" section under "Press Releases."
 
TOTAL PEPSICO RESULTS
 
(In millions)
 
 
Volume was strong during the first quarter, with total servings of products sold worldwide up 7%. Servings of snacks worldwide grew 7% for the quarter, while worldwide servings of beverages grew 8%.
 
Division revenue for the first quarter rose 11% to over $6.1 billion. The revenue increase reflects the volume growth, positive mix, and net favorable foreign exchange. A net improvement in foreign exchange rates contributed close to three percentage points of growth.
 
Division operating profit in the first quarter rose nearly 15.5%, to approximately $1.3 billion. Division margins expanded approximately 90 basis points, reflecting leverage from the increased volume and positive mix. Net favorable foreign currency improved profit growth by two percentage points.
 
Total net income increased 15% for the quarter due to the division operating profit growth, higher bottling equity income, and a lower effective tax rate, partly offset by increased corporate unallocated expenses and lapping a gain on the sale of the Mission pasta business last year.
 
FRITO-LAY NORTH AMERICA (FLNA)
 
(In millions)
 
 
 
FLNA is off to a solid start in 2004, with close to 4% volume growth and 6% revenue growth. The solid first-quarter growth in revenue reflects increased volume, positive mix, and modest pricing.
 
Volume growth in the Salty Snack business during the quarter came primarily from:
 
 
Within the "Add More" Convenience Foods portfolio, the Quaker Chewy bar platform, Frito-Lay nuts, and Obertos meat snacks had robust growth.
 
Across FLNA's Salty and "Add More" Convenience Foods businesses, volume for better-for-you products and fun-for-you products grew at approximately the same rate.
 
Operating profits grew 8% in the first quarter, ahead of revenue, reflecting the volume gains, price realization, and manufacturing productivity that offset ongoing input cost inflation in cooking oil and energy.
 
Over the balance of the year, FLNA will continue media support for the Lay's trademark, both Classic Potato Chips and STAX, Doritos Rollitos, and Tostitos. The Power of One promotional calendar is stronger than ever, and the key summer season begins with promotions tied to the movie release . New better-for-you products will be introduced, including the new Edge product line with 60% fewer carbohydrates in
Shrek II
 
Doritos, Tostitos, and Cheetos, and an addition to the Baked! reduced fat product line with Baked! Cheetos.
 
PEPSICO BEVERAGES NORTH AMERICA (PBNA)
 
(In millions)
 
 
 
PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) posted another quarter of exceptionally strong performance on the top line and bottom line. Revenue growth of 11% reflects volume growth of 5%, a continued favorable mix shift toward non-carbonated beverages and diet CSDs, a modest benefit from the Canadian dollar, and Mountain Dew LiveWire shipments to support the brand's re-introduction at the start of the second quarter.
 
The Division's non-carbonated beverage portfolio volume surged over 13% in the quarter, led by:
 
 
Carbonated soft drink (CSD) volume grew 2%, outpacing the industry:
 
 
As a result of exceptional volume performance, PBNA grew its leading share of the total liquid refreshment beverage category in U.S. measured* channels, growing share by 0.7 points, to 25.5%.
 
Operating profit increased 20%, driven by volume, positive product mix, and cost productivity.
 
Over the balance of the year, growth will be supported by additional innovation and great promotions; for example:
 
 
 
 
 
 
PEPSICO INTERNATIONAL (PI)
 
(In millions)
 
 
 
PepsiCo International continued strong volume, revenue and operating profit growth in the first quarter. The volume growth was across all regions, as detailed below:
 
 
 
 
 
The key drivers of this strong volume growth in the first quarter include:
 
 
 
PI revenue grew 19% in the first quarter, primarily driven by organic volume growth. Favorable foreign exchange accounted for over seven points of growth, driven largely by the appreciation of the Euro and the British pound, partially offset by the slightly unfavorable Mexican peso.
 
PI operating profit grew 34% in the first quarter, primarily driven by volume and favorable mix, and modest G&A cost leverage. Selling and distribution expense increased in line with volume. Net favorable foreign exchange rates contributed close to nine points of profit growth.
 
QUAKER FOODS NORTH AMERICA (QFNA)
 
(In millions)
 
 
Quaker Foods North America delivered 2% volume growth in the first quarter. The volume growth was driven by oatmeal in both the U.S. and Canada. These volume gains were partially offset by Rice-A-Roni declines.
 
Net revenue grew in line with volume, and operating profit improved 4% due to leverage versus previous year.
 
CORPORATE
 
.    Corporate unallocated expenses increased by $56 million in the first quarter. The major drivers of this increase were higher employee-related costs, largely pension expenses; an increased profit elimination for inventory held by equity bottlers; costs associated with our business process transformation initiative; and a contribution to the Foundation.
Corporate Unallocated Expense
 
.    Bottling equity income of $39 million more than doubled in the quarter, driven by strong performance by Pepsi Bottling Group and by lapping the negative impact of the national strike in Venezuela last year.
Equity Income
 
.    Interest expense decreased $2 million in the first quarter, as a result of lower debt levels.
Interest Expense
 
.    Interest income increased $3 million, due to higher levels of cash.
Interest Income
 
.    PepsiCo's effective tax rate of 29.5% is 1.5 points lower than prior year, primarily reflecting increased benefits from our concentrate operations and changes arising from our recent agreement with the IRS.
Tax Rate
 
.    Quaker merger costs are no longer reported separately, as the costs associated with the merger have been incurred. In the first quarter of 2003, $11 million ($10 million after-tax) of Quaker merger costs were incurred. Also in the first quarter of 2003, the Company realized a one-time gain of $25 million ($16 million after-tax, or $0.01 per share) on the sale of Quaker's Mission pasta business.
Merger expense & Mission Pasta gain
 
.    The first quarter cash flow from operating activities was $712 million compared to $422 million in the first quarter of 2003. Cash flow less net capital spending was $537 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared to $122 million in the first quarter of 2003. The year over year increase in cash flows reflects strong business results and the timing of the capital spending.
Cash Flow
 
.    The weighted average diluted number of shares outstanding during the first quarter increased slightly compared to prior year, to 1,736 million shares. This increase was driven by the impact of an increasing stock price on employee stock options, offset by share repurchases.
Shares Outstanding
 
On March 29, the Company announced that PepsiCo's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $7 billion of PepsiCo common stock over the next three years, once the current repurchase authorization is complete. The current $5 billion program began in August 2002 and only $860 million of the authorization was left at the start of
 
2004. Year-to-date through April 9, 2004, over $800 million had been used to repurchase over 16 million shares. For the full year, PepsiCo expects to spend at least $2.5 billion in the stock repurchase program.
 
Miscellaneous
 
.    At 11 a.m. (Eastern Time) today, management will host a conference call with investors to discuss first-quarter 2004 results and the outlook for balance of year. For details, visit our site on the Internet at .
Conference Call
www.pepsico.com
 
.    In discussing these financial results, management may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of any such non-GAAP measures to PepsiCo's reported financials is attached.
Reconciliation
 
PepsiCo
 
PepsiCo is one of the world's largest food and beverage companies with annual revenues of $27 billion. Its principal businesses include: Frito-Lay snacks, Pepsi-Cola beverages, Gatorade sports drinks, Tropicana juices and Quaker foods. Its portfolio includes 16 brands that each generate $1 billion or more in annual retail sales.
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This release contains statements concerning PepsiCo's expectations for future performance. Any such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. As such, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results and performance may be significantly different from expectations. Please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of specific risks that may affect our performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management operating cash flow is the primary measure management uses to monitor cash flow performance. It is not a measure calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities. The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities as reflected in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to our management operating cash flow.
 
 
 


