FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20040205100338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PepsiCo finished 2003 with another quarter of double-digit earnings growth, as earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2003 were up over 30% to $0.51, on a fully diluted basis. For the full year, earnings per share were up 21%, to $2.01, on a fully diluted basis. The results for both 2002 and 2003 include the expensing of stock options, which was $0.06 per share in the fourth quarter of 2003, and $0.20 per share for the full year.
PURCHASE, NY (Feb. 5, 2004)
 
A reduction in costs relating to the Quaker merger contributed 12 percentage points to the earnings per share increase for the quarter. For the full year, lower merger costs contributed 6 percentage points.
 
As announced in early December, a restructuring charge of $147 million was taken in the fourth quarter to strengthen the business by streamlining operations across both North American divisions and PepsiCo International. The $0.06 per share cost of the restructuring was offset by benefits from a favorable tax settlement.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Reinemund said:
 
"2003 was an outstanding year for PepsiCo  and 2004 looks to have the same potential. No matter how you look at our businesses, we're producing solid, balanced growth. Our health and wellness brands are growing, as are our Fun-For-You businesses. We've achieved solid growth rates in snacks and beverages, both in our North American and in our International operations. Overall, our top-line and bottom-line growth rates are strong, as are our short-term and long-term growth prospects.
 
"The strong 2003 performance sets the stage for a repeat performance in 2004 and beyond. Our pipeline of innovation remains strong, our operating plans are solid, and we're making great progress in developing our people. PepsiCo continues to perform as a premier consumer products company, with a diverse product portfolio, powerful distribution systems, and a deep understanding of both the consumer and retail customer. I expect all our businesses will leverage these competitive advantages to deliver their 2004 plans.
 
"Furthermore, we now have even stronger capability for rewarding our people. As we announced in December, the improvements made to our broad-based Sharepower stock option program and executive compensation programs give us more tools than ever to recognize and reward associates in our results-driven culture."
 
Reinemund continued: "Our outlook for 2004 remains entirely consistent with the guidance that we provided in our December investor meeting. We are targeting 2004 EPS in the $2.24 to $2.28 range, and we expect our operating cash flow, after net capital expenditures, to exceed 10% growth."
 
NOTE TO INVESTORS
 
As previously announced, PepsiCo's financials now include stock option expense. Stock option expense is included in both 2002 and 2003 financial results, In 2004, the operating divisions will be measured based on plans that include stock option expense, and their financial results will be reported accordingly. Therefore, historical data that assigns stock option expense to the appropriate operating division will be available soon for the years 2001-2003. The information will be posted on the Company's web-site at www.pepsico.com in the "Investors" section under "Press Releases." This information will be provided to the SEC on Form 8-K.
and presented in this release as a separate line item below division operating profit.
 
SUMMARY OF TOTAL PEPSICO RESULTS
 
Volume continued to be solid, with total servings of products sold worldwide up 6% in the fourth quarter of 2003 and 5% for the full year. Servings of snacks worldwide grew 5% for the quarter and for the full year, while worldwide servings of beverages grew 7% for the quarter, and over 5% for the full year.
 
Division revenue for the fourth quarter rose 10% to $8.1 billion. The revenue increase reflects the volume increase, positive mix, and favorable foreign exchange which contributed close to 2 percentage points of growth. For the full year, division revenue increased 8% to $27 billion. The revenue growth largely reflects the volume increase and positive mix.
 
Division operating profit in the fourth quarter rose 13% to $1.6 billion. These gains reflect the volume increases, as well as favorable mix and effective net pricing. Currency exchange rates improved profit growth by one point. For the full year, division operating profit grew almost 10%, to more than $5.8 billion. The profit growth reflects the volume increase, favorable mix, and improved price realization. Currency exchange rates did not have a significant impact on the full year results for either revenues or operating profits.
 
Total operating profit, which includes corporate unallocated expenses, stock option expense, fourth quarter restructuring, and Quaker merger costs, increased 2% for the quarter, and nearly 11% for the full year. Total net income, which also includes the favorable tax settlement in the fourth quarter, increased 30% for the quarter, and over 18% for the full year.
 
FRITO-LAY NORTH AMERICA (FLNA)
 
(In millions)
 
 
4
th
Quarter 2003
 
Frito-Lay North America had strong top line results in the fourth quarter, with 3% volume growth and 6% revenue growth. In U.S. IRI measured channels, Frito-Lay gained approximately one share point in volume for the quarter. The 6% fourth-quarter growth in revenue reflects increased volume, positive mix, modest pricing, and a favorable Canadian dollar exchange rate.
 
Volume growth in the "Core" Salty Snack business during the quarter came primarily from:
 
 
Strong "Add More" Convenience Foods volume growth was driven principally by innovation, including:
 
 
Operating profits grew 7% in the fourth quarter, ahead of revenue, reflecting the volume gains, price realization and productivity. Margin expansion was limited, in part, by input cost inflation that has been discussed previously, particularly overall inflation in cooking oil markets combined with the strategic decision to switch from oil containing trans fats, such as hydrogenated soybean oil, to healthier corn oil.
 
Full Year 2003
 
FLNA had strong top line results for the full year with close to 4% volume growth and over 6% revenue growth. The 6% full-year revenue growth reflects increased volume, positive mix, modest pricing, and promotional spending productivity in the core Salty business.
 
Salty Snacks growth was led by Cheetos, Munchies Snack Mix, Lay's STAX, the Natural/Organic line, and Dips. In addition, the two biggest brands  Lay's and Doritos  also contributed to the growth, aided, in part, by the success of Guacamole-flavored varieties. Growth in Convenience Foods was led by the Quaker bar line, Quaker Toastables, nuts, and Oberto meat snacks.
 
Across FLNA's Salty and "Add More" Convenience Foods businesses, the full year volume of Better-For-You products grew over 20%. Volume for Fun-For-You products grew in the low single digits. Better-For-You products now make up over 10% of the FLNA portfolio on both a volume and revenue basis.
 
Operating profits grew 7%. Input cost inflation in cooking oils, combined with the strategic decision in 2003 to eliminate trans fats from all FLNA products, represented a full-year investment that reduced operating profit by more than one point of growth. Operating profit growth was driven by volume, net price realization, and productivity resulting from execution of the "Max It!" productivity programs in manufacturing and distribution.
 
 
PEPSICO BEVERAGES NORTH AMERICA (PBNA)
 
(In millions)
 
 
4
th
Quarter 2003
 
PepsiCo Beverages North America achieved its strongest results of the year in the fourth quarter, posting 5% total volume growth and double-digit revenue and operating profit increases. PBNA revenue increased 11% for the quarter due to volume increases, net pricing, and favorable product mix driven by strong non-carbonated beverage sales.
 
The Division's balanced portfolio of non-carbonated beverages led volume growth, with a strong 11% gain, driven by:
 
 
Carbonated soft drink (CSD) volume grew a healthy 3% in the quarter, boosted by both innovation and core product strength, including:
 
 
Fourth quarter operating profit increased 23%, reflecting the higher volume, net pricing, improved product mix, cost productivity, and favorable overlaps of non-recurring costs in the fourth quarter of 2002, partly offset by higher marketing spending.
 
Full Year 2003
 
For full-year 2003, PBNA volume growth was 3%, with non-carbonated drinks growing 8% and CSDs growing 1.5%. Gatorade, Aquafina, and Propel were the drivers of non-carbonated growth, while the national launch of Sierra Mist and strong diet portfolio performance contributed to CSD gains. Full-year revenue increased 7%, reflecting the volume growth, net pricing, and a mix shift toward full goods.
 
As a result of this strong volume performance, PBNA remains the market leader in the liquid refreshment beverage category in U.S. measured channels. For full-year 2003, PBNA gained 0.3 share points, for a full-year share of 26.0%. For the fourth quarter alone, PBNA's beverage portfolio gained almost one share point for a volume share of 26.5%.
 
Full year operating profit increased 13%, reflecting the volume increase, positive price and mix, and cost of sales productivity.
 
 
PEPSICO INTERNATIONAL (PI)
 
(In millions)
 
 
 
4
th
Quarter 2003
 
PepsiCo International had continued strong volume growth into the fourth quarter across all regions, with:
 
 
 
PI revenue grew 15% in the fourth quarter, largely driven by organic volume growth. Favorable foreign exchange (largely the Euro and Pound) contributed over 3 points of growth, and acquisitions accounted for 2 points of growth.
 
PI operating profit grew 18% in the fourth quarter, largely driven by volume and favorable country mix. Unfavorable foreign exchange rates, largely the Mexican Peso, reduced profit growth by over a point.
 
Full Year 2003
 
For the full year, PI snack kilo volume grew 6% and beverage bottler case sales increased 8% Volume growth by region for full year 2002 and 2003 is provided below:
.
 
 
 
On a full-year basis, revenue grew 12%, with acquisitions contributing nearly 2 points of growth, and favorable foreign exchange contributing nearly one point.
 
PI operating profits grew 14% for the full year, driven by volume and positive country mix. Acquisitions added almost two points of profit growth; but unfavorable foreign exchange, largely the Mexican peso, reduced full-year profit by almost six points.
 
Certain reserve actions were taken in the third quarter on potentially unrecoverable beverage assets, which reduced full-year profit growth by over 2 points.
 
 
QUAKER FOODS NORTH AMERICA (QFNA)
(In millions)
 
 
4
th
Quarter 2003
 
Quaker Foods North America experienced mixed results in the fourth quarter. Total volume was down almost 5% and revenue declined almost 3%. Volume declines were largely a result of softness in the oatmeal category and, to a lesser extent, in ready-to-eat cereals. On the positive side, Quaker Breakfast Squares contributed over one point of volume growth. Revenue declined 3%, as volume declines were partly offset by improved price realization, and a modest benefit from the Canadian dollar.
 
Fourth-quarter operating profits were very strong, up almost 10%. The key drivers of margin improvement were cost productivity and reduced marketing spending.
 
Full Year 2003
 
Full-year volume and revenue were flat, as declines in grain-based side dishes were offset by the successful launch of new Quaker Breakfast Squares. Full-year operating profit growth of 3% reflects cost productivity and lower marketing spending.
 
CORPORATE
 
.    Fourth quarter corporate unallocated expenses increased $79 million, primarily due to the timing of funding for our charitable foundation, the cost of the business process transformation initiative, and higher employee-related expenses. On a full-year basis, corporate unallocated expenses were up 18%, driven primarily by business process transformation costs and higher employee-related expenses, including deferred compensation. The deferred compensation is partly offset in interest income, as described below.
Corporate Unallocated Expense
 
.    As announced previously, PepsiCo now expenses stock options. The fourth-quarter option expense is $140 million, or $0.06 per share. The full-year option expense is $510 million, or $0.20 per share. See "Note to Investors" section on page 2.
Stock Option Expense
 
.    Bottling equity income increased $48 million for the quarter and $43 million, or 16%, for the full year, reflecting increased earnings from our bottlers and a favorable comparison to an impairment charge on a bottling investment in 2002.
Equity Income
 
    Fourth-quarter interest expense declined by $11 million, due to the retirement of maturing debt. On a full-year basis, interest expense decreased $15 million.
.
Interest Expense
 
    Fourth-quarter interest income increased by $8 million, driven by gains in the performance of certain investment funds and higher average cash balances. These investment funds are in place to partly offset the expense related to deferred compensation programs that are recorded in corporate unallocated expense. These gains were partially offset by the effect of lower interest rates on the balance of PepsiCo's investment portfolio. On a full-year basis, interest income increased $15 million.
.
Interest Income
 
    The fourth-quarter effective tax rate of 20.2% was 13 points lower than last year, primarily due to a favorable tax settlement resulting from the resolution of tax audits from prior years. Also contributing to the lower tax rate were the impact of the new concentrate plant in Ireland, and the reduction in merger costs. The favorable tax settlement, concentrate plant impact, and merger costs reduced the full-year tax rate by 4 points, to 28.5%. The favorable tax settlement reduced the tax rate by approximately 2 percentage points for the full year.
.
Tax Rate
 
:    Fourth-quarter Quaker merger expenses were $28 million, down from $90 million in same period 2002. For the full year, merger expenses were $59 million, down from $224 million in 2002. PepsiCo will no longer report Quaker merger costs separately, as the costs associated with the merger largely have been incurred.
Merger and Streamlining expenses
 
As announced previously, there were restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter across North America and PepsiCo International to strengthen and streamline the business. The total streamlining charge was $147 million.
 
.    Full-year cash flow from operating activities less net capital spending was $3.0 billion, compared to $3.3 billion in 2002. The year-over-year decline reflects higher net tax payments related to the IRS settlement, partially offset by strong business results and lower pension plan contributions. Full-year net capital spending was $1.3 billion for both 2003 and 2002.
Cash Flow
 
We returned $3.0 billion to shareholders in dividends of $1.1 billion and as share repurchases of $1.9 billion. Nearly 43 million shares of PepsiCo stock were repurchased in 2003.
 
.    The weighted average diluted number of shares outstanding during the fourth quarter decreased to 1,742 million shares. The weighted average diluted shares outstanding for full year 2003 decreased over 2% to 1,738 million.
Shares Outstanding
 
Miscellaneous
 
.    At 11 a.m. (Eastern time) today, management will host a conference call with investors to discuss fourth-quarter 2003 results and the outlook for 2004. For details, visit our site on the Internet at
Conference Call
www.pepsico.com.
 
.    In discussing these financial results, management may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of any such non-GAAP measures to PepsiCo's reported financials is attached and can be found under "Press Releases" on the Company's website at in the "Investors" section.
Reconciliation
www.pepsico.com
 
Cautionary Statement
 
        This release contains statements concerning PepsiCo's expectations for future performance. Any such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. As such, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results and performance may be significantly different from expectations. Please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of specific risks that may affect our performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management operating cash flow is the primary measure management uses to monitor cash flow performance. It is not a measure calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities. The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities as reflected in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to our management operating cash flow.
 
 
 


