FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20040930101428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release issued by PepsiCo, Inc., dated September 30, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PepsiCo delivered another strong quarter, with earnings per share of $0.79 that included tax benefits of $0.13. Excluding the tax benefits, earnings per share were $0.66, up 14% versus year ago. Top-line momentum continued, as revenues grew over 6% in the third quarter. Year to date, revenues were up over 8% and earnings per share were $1.86 including the tax benefits. Excluding the tax benefits, earnings per share year to date were $1.73, up 13% versus year ago.
PURCHASE, NY (Sept 30, 2004)
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Reinemund said, "PepsiCo's portfolio of businesses delivered another high-quality quarter. International is delivering sustained high growth, Frito-Lay stepped up performance versus the second quarter, and, although North America beverage volume growth slowed in the quarter, we expect improved volume performance in the balance of the year."
 
"Our momentum remains strong as we enter the last quarter. Overall, we are stronger than ever and 2004 will be another good year for PepsiCo."
 
TOTAL PEPSICO RESULTS
(In millions)
 
 
Total servings of products sold worldwide increased 4%, driven by International growth. Snacks volume worldwide grew 4% for the quarter, and worldwide beverages volume also grew 4%. Year to date, total servings growth was over 6%, with worldwide snacks volume growing almost 6% and worldwide beverages volume growing 7%.
 
Revenue for the third quarter rose 6%, to approximately $7.3 billion, overlapping strong 8% top line growth in the third quarter of 2003. The revenue increase reflects the volume growth, positive price/mix, and net favorable foreign exchange. Year to date, revenue growth is over 8%. A net improvement in foreign exchange rates contributed less than one percentage point of growth in the third quarter, and over one point of growth year to date.
 
Division operating profit in the third quarter rose 11%, to over $1.6 billion. Division margins expanded one point, reflecting leverage from the increased volume and positive mix. Year to date, division operating profits increased 12%, with an improvement in operating margins of 80 basis points. Foreign currency exchange rates had no impact on profit in the quarter and year to date.
 
Net income increased 35% for the quarter, and 22% year to date due to operating profit growth, and a lower tax rate that includes one-time tax benefits of $221 million. Excluding the tax benefits, net income increased 13% for both the quarter and year to date. Two items account for almost all of the tax benefits. The most significant tax benefits relate to a reduction in foreign tax accruals following the resolution of certain open tax issues with foreign tax authorities. The second tax item results from an additional refund claim related to last year's U.S. tax settlements.
 
FRITO-LAY: MAX IT! PRODUCTIVITY UPDATE
 
Frito-Lay North America (FLNA) announced today that its ongoing productivity program creates the opportunity for a manufacturing network consolidation. At an investor meeting in early 2003, FLNA introduced the MAX It! Productivity Program with a goal to increase existing capacity by over 10% through process improvements, selective capacity boosts, and more robust systems to improve production planning. Today, this program is very much on-track, and is exceeding targeted improvements in existing capacity. Success created the opportunity to consolidate the manufacturing network.
 
Therefore, FLNA's existing facilities across the United States and Canada will be reduced from 43 to 39 by closing four sites. The move is expected to yield savings to be re-invested in growth.
 
Frito-Lay will close three of its older plants located in Allen Park, MI, Council Bluffs, IA, and Beaverton, OR. The other facility being closed is Visalia, CA, which is limited to production of three brands. All capacity will be re-deployed to other Frito-Lay facilities in the U.S. and production will be increased across 24 locations.
 
Timing of the plant closures and the increase of existing capacity will vary by location over the next several weeks, and is expected to be largely complete by the end of this year. About 250 of the approximately 780 jobs eliminated at the four facilities will be added to the other Frito-Lay sites. Following this transition, Frito-Lay's national workforce remains approximately 45,000 associates. All associates impacted by the plant closings will be offered comprehensive severance packages, transition benefits and job placement assistance.
 
PepsiCo expects to incur a pre-tax charge of approximately $160 million to implement this streamlining at Frito-Lay. The expense will be largely incurred in the fourth quarter of this year.
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Reinemund said, "A thorough, eight-month assessment determined that this is the right move to position the business for continued growth into the future. Taking this step from a position of strength, when our performance and prospects are strong, ensures it will be implemented with excellence."
 
UPDATED 2004 GUIDANCE
 
The net impact of the third quarter tax benefits and the manufacturing consolidation charge in the fourth quarter is expected to increase full-year earnings per share by approximately $0.06. Based on this impact, PepsiCo has updated its guidance and now expects earnings per share of at least $2.35, a growth rate of 15%.
 
PepsiCo also expects its 2004 full-year forecast for cash from operating activities of about $4.9 billion and, after net capital expenditures, to exceed $3.4 billion.
 
FRITO-LAY NORTH AMERICA (FLNA)
(In millions)
 
 
 
 
 
FLNA had solid core salty performance in the third quarter, with volume growth approaching 3% and solid price/mix realization. Overall volume growth in the third quarter was 2% as the performance in Quaker snacks reduced volume by approximately one point. Year to date, overall volume growth is over 2%, with Quaker snacks reducing volume growth by close to one point.
 
The third quarter revenue growth of 5% reflects salty volume growth and increased pricing/mix across both salty and Quaker snacks. Year to date, revenue growth is 5%. Quaker snack volume performance negatively impacted revenue by about half a point both in the third quarter and the year to date.
 
Revenue growth in the salty snack business during the third quarter was led by:
 
 
Within the "Add More" portfolio, Frito-Lay nuts and Obertos meat snacks sold through the direct-to-store system continued to have robust revenue growth. The overall performance of Quaker snacks sold through the warehouse system did improve relative to second quarter performance, led by strong growth from Quaker bars due to the introduction of Quaker Q-Smart low carbohydrate bars.
 
PepsiCo recently introduced its new "Smart Spot" program to make it easier for consumers to identify better-for-you and good-for-you products. The Frito-Lay products that have transitioned (or shortly will transition) to the use of the Smart Spot label, which represent approximately 10% of the total FLNA portfolio, had high-single-digit revenue growth in the third quarter. The balance of the portfolio grew mid-single digits.
 
FLNA operating profit grew 7% for both the third quarter and the year to date due to price/mix and volume realization. Manufacturing productivity mitigated ongoing raw material cost inflation, largely in cooking oil and energy.
 
During the fourth quarter, Tostitos will be enhanced with new packaging, strong promotional tie-ins with College Football and the NFL, advertising, and additional manufacturing capacity for the very successful Tostitos Scoops offering. The biggest brands  Lay's and Doritos  will have new varieties, with Lay's Classic Cheddar and Sour Cream flavor and a Doritos Black Pepper Jack flavor. Sensible snack offerings will be strengthened with the re-stage of WOW! to the "Light" line, and the addition of BAKED! Crunchy Cheetos. In addition, there will be strong Power of One in-store promotional programs during the key holidays.
 
PEPSICO BEVERAGES NORTH AMERICA (PBNA)
(In millions)
 
 
 
 
 
Volume growth for the peak summer season was challenging due to a significant increase in branded carbonated soft drinks (CSDs) retail prices; a relatively soft retail environment; and a tough CSD innovation overlap. Furthermore, holiday timing negatively impacted volume growth in the third quarter. The timing impact shifted about a point of growth out of the quarter.*
 
When adjusted for the negative holiday overlap, PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) had close to flat volume in the third quarter. Revenue growth of 3% for the third quarter is driven largely by the continued favorable mix shift to non-carbs, and to a lesser extent by concentrate shipments exceeding bottler case sales (BCS) volume due to Labor Day timing.
 
 
Non-carbonated beverage case sales increased over 5% in the quarter, led by:
 
 
Carbonated soft drink case sales declined 4% in the quarter, in part due to the holiday timing and:
 
 
On a year-to-date basis, PBNA volume is up 3%, with CSDs flat and non-carbs up over 10%.
 
The PBNA products that qualify for the Smart Spot label, which represent close to two thirds of the PBNA portfolio on a revenue basis, grew in line with the overall division.
 
During the key summer season, PBNA maintained its leading share of the liquid refreshment beverage category in U.S. measured channels**, with a 26.1% volume share and a 31.2% dollar share for the quarter, increasing PepsiCo's relative share versus its nearest competitor.
 
For the quarter, operating profit growth of 8% reflects favorable product and package mix, higher joint venture income, and lower advertising and marketing costs due to timing. Year-to-date operating profit is up 12%.
 
 
Balance of year activity includes:
 
 
In the fourth quarter, PBNA has a challenging overlap due to the double-digit revenue growth and over twenty percent profit growth achieved in 2003.
 
PEPSICO INTERNATIONAL (PI)
(In millions)
 
 
 
 
 
International maintained its strong growth in both beverages and snacks across all regions, as detailed below:
 
 
The key drivers of this strong, balanced volume growth in the third quarter include:
 
 
 
Year to date, snacks volumes grew 9%, and beverage volumes grew 12%.
 
Volume and favorable mix primarily drove revenue growth of 11% in the quarter, with positive foreign exchange contributing approximately two percentage points. Year to date, revenue grew 14%, with favorable foreign exchange contributing almost four percentage points of growth.
 
Operating profits grew 29% in the third quarter, driven by volume and positive mix. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced operating profits by less than one percentage point. Year to date, operating profits grew 28%, with favorable foreign exchange contributing approximately two percentage points of growth. Growth increased by 10 percentage points in the quarter and four percentage points year to date due to the positive overlap of reserve actions taken in the third quarter 2003 on potentially unrecoverable beverage assets.
 
QUAKER FOODS NORTH AMERICA (QFNA)
(in millions)
 
 
In the third quarter, Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) delivered over 3% increase in volume. Revenue increased 5% due to the volume growth and improved price realization. Innovation, including Oatmeal Supreme, Oatmeal Breakfast Blast, Low Sugar Oatmeal, Roni Cheesy Pleasers, and Honey Graham Life, drove the growth. These gains were partially offset by softness in Cap'n Crunch. On a year-to-date basis, volume increased 1% and revenue increased 2%.
 
Third quarter operating profit increased 4%, due to the volume and price realization, partially offset by higher marketing. Year-to-date operating profit grew by 2%.
 
The QFNA products that qualify for the Smart Spot label, which represent over 40% of the total portfolio, had low-double-digit revenue growth in the third quarter, while the balance of the QFNA portfolio was essentially flat.
 
CORPORATE
 
.    Corporate unallocated expenses increased by 27% in the third quarter to $127 million, driven largely by higher pension expenses.
Corporate Unallocated Expense
 
.    Bottling equity income increased 9% to $147 million in the quarter, primarily as a result of strong bottler performance.
Equity Income
 
.    Net interest expense decreased by $4 million driven by favorable interest rates and higher average cash balances, but offset by higher average debt balances.
Net Interest Expense
 
.    PepsiCo's third quarter tax rate was 16.5% and, excluding the impact of the tax benefits of $221 million, was 30%. The year-to-date tax rate was 24.5%, and excluding the impact of the tax benefits was 29.7%, down 130 basis points versus last year.
Tax Rate
 
.    The year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $3.7 billion, compared to $3.5 billion through the third quarter of 2003. Cash flow less net capital spending, or management operating cash flow, was $3.0 billion year to date, compared to $2.7 billion through the third quarter of 2003.
Cash Flow
 
.    The weighted average diluted number of shares outstanding during the third quarter of 2004 decreased over 16 million shares to 1,727 million shares. . The share repurchase program continues and, year to date through September 24, over $2.6 billion has been used to repurchase almost 50 million shares.
Shares Outstanding
(See attachment A-5)
 
Miscellaneous
 
.    At 11 a.m. (Eastern time) today, management will host a conference call with investors to discuss third quarter 2004 results and the outlook for balance of year. For details, visit our site on the Internet at .
Conference Call
www.pepsico.com
 
.    In discussing these financial results, management may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of any such non-GAAP measures to PepsiCo's reported financials is attached and can be found under "Press Releases" on the Company's website at in the "Investors" section.
Reconciliation
www.pepsico.com
 
PepsiCo
 
PepsiCo is one of the world's largest food and beverage companies with annual revenues of $27 billion. Its principal businesses include Frito-Lay snacks, Pepsi-Cola beverages, Gatorade sports drinks, Tropicana juices and Quaker foods. Its portfolio includes 16 brands that each generates $1 billion or more in annual retail sales.
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This release contains statements concerning PepsiCo's expectations for future performance. Any such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. As such, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results and performance may be significantly different from expectations. Please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of specific risks that may affect our performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table provides supplemental share and option data (all amounts in millions of shares, except for average share and exercise prices).
 
 
 
We recognized certain tax benefits in the third quarter of 2004. In addition, we expect to incur certain restructuring and impairment charges in the fourth quarter related to Frito Lay's manufacturing consolidation. Net income, earnings per share and the effective tax rate excluding the impact of these tax benefits and the restructuring and impairment charges are not measures defined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe investors should consider our net income, earnings per share and our effective tax rate without the impact of these tax benefits and the restructuring and impairment charges since they are one time in nature.
 
A reconciliation of net income, earnings per share and our effective tax rate including and excluding these tax benefits and the restructuring and impairment charges appears below.
 
 
 
 
Management operating cash flow is the primary measure management uses to monitor cash flow performance. It is not a measure defined under GAAP. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities.
 
A reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to our management operating cash flow appears below.
 
 
Please refer to our condensed consolidated financial statements for presentation of results in accordance with GAAP.
 


