FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20060208094107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (See General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written Communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Item 2.02, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 is a copy of the press release issued by PepsiCo, Inc., dated February 8, 2006, reporting PepsiCo, Inc.'s financial results for the 17 and 53 weeks ended December 31, 2005.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release issued by PepsiCo, Inc., dated February 8, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
PURCHASE, N.Y., Feb. 8  PepsiCo reported continued strong top line growth across all its businesses in the fourth quarter, with global servings volume up over 9% and net revenue up 15%. The results include the favorable impact of an extra reporting week in 2005. Excluding the extra-week impact, volume increased over 7% and net revenue was up 10%.
 
Earnings of $0.65 per share grew 13% versus $0.58 per share reported in the fourth quarter of 2004. The extra-week earnings benefit in the quarter of $0.03 per share was offset by the impact of the Company's previously announced restructuring actions.
 
Chairman and CEO Steve Reinemund said, "We're very pleased with the results for the quarter and for the full year. Our top line has shown consistently strong growth throughout the year, and earnings were strong despite a challenging input cost environment. Importantly, we've made investments in the marketplace and in productivity that, together with our top-line momentum, gives us confidence as we enter 2006."
 
For the full year, servings volume grew 7% and net revenue was up 11%, with the extra reporting week contributing approximately one point of growth.
 
Earnings per share of $2.39 for the full year included the impact of a $0.27 per share tax charge related to the Company's repatriation of international cash, the extra reporting week and the restructuring actions. EPS for 2004 included tax benefits of $0.18 per share related to settlements of tax contingencies and a restructuring and impairment charge of $0.06 per share.
 
 
 
 
Extra reporting week and restructuring actions affected comparability of Division results.
 
The fourth quarter of 2005 includes an extra week of results; because the Company's fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of every December, every five or six years an extra week of results is reported in the fourth quarter.
 
The Company recorded pre-tax charges totaling $83 million in the fourth quarter; those charges relate to previously announced restructuring actions to reduce costs in its operations, principally through headcount reductions. Of that amount, approximately $70 million was reported within Division operating results with the balance reported in corporate unallocated costs.
 
The following table presents the 2005 Division growth rates excluding the impact of the extra week and the restructuring charges. Further information on the impact of the extra week and the restructuring actions is included in the attached financial schedules.
 
 
In connection with the Company's Business Process Transformation (BPT) initiative, the Company aligned certain accounting policies across its Divisions. In the fourth quarter, certain costs, principally warehouse and freight, were reclassified in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income from cost of sales to selling, general and administrative expenses as part of the accounting policy alignment. The reclassifications had no net impact on operating profit and have been made to prior periods for comparability.
 
Frito-Lay North America (FLNA) had solid volume growth and effective net pricing.
 
For the quarter and the full year, FLNA experienced strong growth in its core salty products. Volume gains were driven by trademark Lay's, Tostitos, Cheetos and Santitas, and by the extra reporting week. Net sales growth benefited from the volume gains and effective net pricing. Operating profit growth benefited from the net revenue gains, offset somewhat by higher energy-related and raw material costs, increased advertising and marketing expense, and the impact of the restructuring actions.
 
PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) reported solid volume gains behind continued strong non-carbonated beverage growth.
 
For the quarter and the full year, PBNA volume growth was led by strong double-digit gains in Gatorade sports drinks, trademark Aquafina and Propel fitness water, and by the extra reporting week. Low-single-digit diet carbonated soft drink (CSD) growth partially offset a low-single-digit decline in the regular CSD portfolio.
 
For the quarter, net revenue benefited from the volume gains and positive mix, slightly offset by timing of promotional spending. Operating profit declined in the quarter as the benefit of net revenue gains was more than offset by higher energy and raw material costs, increased advertising and marketing expense, and the impact of the restructuring actions.
 
For the full year, net revenue growth was driven by the volume gains and effective net pricing. Operating profit growth reflected the net revenue growth, partially offset by higher energy and raw material costs, increased advertising and marketing expense, and the impact of the restructuring actions.
 
PepsiCo International (PI) posted double-digit volume and net revenue gains in both snacks and beverages.
 
For the quarter, snack volume growth of 13% was led by strong double-digit growth at Sabritas in Mexico, Russia, India, Australia and Turkey, and by the extra reporting week. Growth was offset by a slight decline at Walker's in the U.K. Beverage volume grew 12%, with double-digit CSD growth and double-digit non-carbonated beverage growth. The gains were led by double-digit increases in the Middle East, China and Argentina.
 
 
Net revenue grew 16% driven by the volume gains and effective net pricing. Foreign currency translation added two points of growth, reflecting appreciation of the Mexican peso and Brazilian real; this growth was partially offset by the weakened euro and British pound.
 
Operating profit grew 14% driven by net revenue gains, and offset partially by higher energy and raw material costs and by the impact of restructuring actions. Foreign currency translation added three points of growth.
 
The net favorable impact of acquisition and divestiture activity added one point to snacks and beverage volume, two points to net revenue and four points to operating profit.
 
For the full year, volume growth in snacks and beverages was geographically broad based. Virtually every market contributed to growth with the exception of Walker's in the U.K., which experienced a low-single-digit decline. Net revenue growth reflected the volume growth and effective net pricing. Operating profit growth was driven by the net revenue growth, partially offset by higher energy and raw material costs and the impact of restructuring actions. Foreign currency translation contributed three points to net revenue growth and four points to operating profit growth for the year.
 
Net acquisition and divestiture activity had no impact on total volume growth and contributed two points of net revenue and operating profit growth.
 
Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) had double-digit volume and net revenue growth on strong hot cereal performance.
 
For the quarter and the full year, volume growth was driven by oatmeal, Aunt Jemima syrups and mixes, Rice-A-Roni and Pasta Roni side dishes and the extra reporting week.
 
In the fourth quarter, net revenue benefited from the volume growth and effective net pricing. Operating profit growth lagged net revenue growth due to increased advertising and marketing expense and higher raw material costs.
 
For the year, net revenue growth reflected the volume gains, effective net pricing, including settlement of prior-year trade accruals, and favorable Canadian dollar exchange rates. Operating profit grew in line with net revenue as effective net pricing benefits were offset by higher advertising and marketing costs and higher energy and raw material costs.
 
Benefits of PBG share sales, share repurchases and strong equity bottler results were partially offset by continued investment in BPT.
 
Corporate unallocated expenses were essentially flat in the quarter, as increased investment in the Company's BPT and health and wellness initiatives were offset by the benefit of lapping costs incurred in the prior year to settle a contract dispute.
 
For the full year, corporate unallocated expense increased 14% principally as a result of increased investments in BPT and health and wellness initiatives. Charges taken in the third quarter of 2005 associated with conforming the Company's method of accounting for certain freight, distribution and employee benefits costs across all its Divisions were offset by the benefit of lapping the prior-year contract settlement costs.
 
Bottling equity income included a pre-tax gain of $21 million in the quarter and $126 million for the full year related to the sale of shares in The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG).
 
For the full year, the Company repurchased $3 billion of its common shares, resulting in a 1% reduction in weighted-average shares outstanding in both the quarter and for the full year.
 
Repatriation of $7.5 billion international cash completed in fourth quarter.
 
During the fourth quarter, the Company repatriated $7.5 billion of international cash to the U.S. The Company accrued a tax charge of approximately $0.27 per share in the third quarter in anticipation of this action. Taxes related to the repatriation of approximately $420 million are expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Company expects continued strong performance in 2006, in line with long-term targets.
 
For 2006, the Company expects mid-single-digit volume and net revenue growth, with revenue growth outpacing volume growth, and EPS of at least $2.93 per share. Cash provided by operating activities in 2006 is expected to exceed $6.2 billion, and assumes a pension contribution in 2006 of approximately $250 million and includes the anticipated tax payment related to the international cash repatriation.
 
The Company anticipates net capital spending of approximately $2.2 billion, and share repurchases of approximately $3 billion in 2006. The net capital spending estimate, which is above the Company's long-term target of approximately five percent of net revenue, includes investments in manufacturing capacity to support the strong growth in the Company's China snack and beverage operations and its North American Gatorade business, and increased investment in support of the Company's BPT initiative. The Company anticipates capital spending to return to the long-term targeted rate following 2006.
 
About PepsiCo
 
PepsiCo is one of the world's largest food and beverage companies with annual revenues of more than $32 billion. Its principal businesses include Frito-Lay snacks, Pepsi-Cola beverages, Gatorade sports drinks, Tropicana juices and Quaker foods. Its portfolio includes 16 brands that each generates $1 billion or more in annual retail sales.
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This release contains statements concerning PepsiCo's expectations for future performance. Any such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. As such, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results and performance may be significantly different from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Please see the Company's filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of specific risks that may affect performance.
 
Miscellaneous Disclosures
 
Conference call: At 11 a.m. (Eastern Time) today, the Company will host a conference call with investors to discuss fourth quarter 2005 results and the outlook for 2006. For details visit the Company's website at PepsiCo.com
 
Reconciliation: In discussing financial results and guidance, the Company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of any such non-GAAP measures to reported financial statements can be found under "PepsiCo Financial Press Releases" on the Company's website in the "Investors" section.
 
Bottler Volume: Volume for products sold by the Company's bottlers is reported by the Company on a monthly basis, with the fourth quarter comprising September through December.
 
Accounting Policy Alignment: A schedule of the Company's quarterly results for 2005 and 2004 and for the full year 2003 reflecting the accounting alignment reclassifications from cost of sales to selling, general and administrative expenses is available on the Company's website under the "Investors" section.
 
 
 
* Based on unrounded amounts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* snacks/beverages
 
 
 
Net Revenue Reconciliation
 
* Based on unrounded amounts.
 
 
Diluted EPS Reconciliation (cont.)
 
 
We recognized a tax charge in the third quarter of 2005 related to the Company's intention to repatriate $7.5 billion of international earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA). This tax charge was adjusted slightly in the fourth quarter of 2005. In addition, we recorded restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2005 to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions, as well as restructuring and impairment charges in the fourth quarter of 2004 related to Frito Lay's manufacturing consolidation. We also recognized certain tax benefits in the third and fourth quarters of 2004. In 2005, we have an additional week of results (53
rd
week) as our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every five or six years.
 
The financial measures listed below are not measures defined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, we believe investors should consider these measures as they are more indicative of our ongoing performance. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly and full year results:
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, management operating cash flow is the primary measure management uses to monitor cash flow performance. It is not a measure defined under GAAP. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities and growth in cash from operating activities.
 
Please refer to our consolidated financial statements for presentation of results in accordance with GAAP.
 


