FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20060915115004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
PepsiCo, Inc. (the "Company") announced today in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 that John C. Compton has been appointed to the newly created position of Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") for PepsiCo North America, effective immediately. Mr. Compton will continue to serve on the Companys liquid refreshment beverage oversight council. Prior to being named CEO for PepsiCo North America, Mr. Compton was President and CEO for Quaker-Tropicana-Gatorade (QTG), a position he assumed in 2005. Mr. Compton began his career at PepsiCo in 1983 as a Frito-Lay Production Supervisor in the Pulaski, Tennessee manufacturing plant. He has spent over 20 years at PepsiCo in various Sales, Marketing, Operations and General Management assignments. Mr. Compton served as Vice Chairman and President of the North American Salty Snacks Division of Frito-Lay from March 2003 until March 2005. Prior to that, he served as Chief Marketing Officer of Frito-Lays North American Salty Snacks Division from August 2001 until March 2003. Mr. Compton is 45 years old. Succeeding Mr. Compton is Charles (Chuck) I. Maniscalco, who the Company named President and CEO of QTG, the Companys Chicago-based division which encompasses Quaker foods, Tropicana juices and Gatorade beverages. Mr. Maniscalco will also serve on the Companys liquid refreshment beverage oversight council. Prior to being named CEO of QTG, Mr. Maniscalco was President  Gatorade/Propel. He served as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Convenience Foods for Frito-Lay North America from August 2001 until he assumed his Gatorade/Propel role in 2002. Mr. Maniscalco started his career at Quaker Oats in 1980 as a market research analyst. Over the years he held a wide variety of roles at Quaker Oats, including marketing and general management positions encompassing Quakers food, beverages and pet food divisions. Mr. Maniscalco is 53 years old.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 is a copy of the press release issued by the Company, dated September 15, 2006. There will be no change to the Companys financial segment reporting as a result of the management changes announced in the attached press release. The information, including the exhibit attached hereto, in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 7.01 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release issued by PepsiCo, Inc., dated September 15, 2006.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

 PepsiCo announced today it has created a new structure for its North American businesses and that veteran leader John Compton has been appointed to the newly created position of Chief Executive Officer for North America, effective immediately. Compton will report to the corporation's President and CEO-designate, Indra Nooyi, who will assume the CEO role on October 1. Current PepsiCo Chairman and CEO, Steve Reinemund, announced his plans last month to retire as CEO on October 1 and to retire as Chairman in May, 2007.
PURCHASE, NY, September 15, 2006
"This structure will provide even greater coordination across PepsiCo and is the logical next step in the "" initiatives we have been pursuing for over a decade. It strikes the proper balance between the leadership and collaboration required to generate continued growth in our North American businesses while maintaining the independence of the divisions which has been such an instrumental part of PepsiCo's success," said Nooyi. "Our individual businesses are headed by extraordinary leaders who are doing an excellent job running their operations, yet there is unquestionably more value to be realized by approaching our consumers and retail partners as a fully integrated enterprise."
Power of One
PepsiCo's worldwide operations will now be organized into two entities reporting to Nooyi: the new North American division, and the existing PepsiCo International (PI) division, which was formed in 2003 and is led by Mike White. In addition to serving as CEO of PI, White is also Vice Chairman of the corporation and a member of PepsiCo's board of directors.
"Managing these divisions together in a more holistic and integrated manner, like we've been doing at PI for several years, has proven to be the right formula for growth," said Nooyi. "Since the PI division was created, its businesses are developing successfully and the entire international portfolio has delivered consistently outstanding performance, marked by 13 consecutive quarters of double-digit revenue and profit growth. We are confident the new North American structure will enhance effectiveness and drive added momentum there as well."
Compton, 45, a PepsiCo veteran with 23 years experience in snacks, beverages and foods, had been President & CEO of the Quaker Tropicana Gatorade (QTG) division since 2005. Previously, he served in a variety of roles at Frito-Lay where he ultimately became the division's Vice Chairman and President. Compton also led a team of cross-divisional and functional experts from PepsiCo and Quaker Oats during their successful merger integration. Reporting to Compton will be Al Carey, President & CEO of Frito-Lay; Dawn Hudson, President & CEO of Pepsi-Cola; the newly appointed President & CEO of QTG, Chuck Maniscalco; the President of PepsiCo Sales, Tom Greco; and Ron Parker, Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Global Diversity. Parker will report to Compton for North American Human Resources, and will report to Nooyi on Global Diversity, which is consistent with his previous reporting relationship to Reinemund on diversity.
Commenting on Compton, Nooyi said "John is one of our most experienced executives and has literally grown up in the company. He has a deep knowledge and appreciation for all our businesses, especially our versatile distribution capabilities, and he possesses an equally embedded understanding of our culture. John is exactly the right leader for this job and I look forward to working even more closely with him, as do his colleagues, Al, Dawn, Chuck, Tom and Ron."
"The opportunity to partner with such a gifted team of proven leaders to ensure we meet today's ambitious goals while transforming for the future is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity," said Compton. "I could not be more excited about the challenge, the team and the great potential ahead."
Succeeding Compton at QTG is Chuck Maniscalco, who PepsiCo named President & CEO of the Chicago-based division, which encompasses Quaker foods, Tropicana juices and Gatorade beverages. Maniscalco is another long-tenured PepsiCo leader who started his career with Quaker Oats in 1980. For the past four years he has led the Gatorade/Propel business as President, driving over 17% compounded annual volume growth across those vital brands.
"Chuck is without a doubt the most qualified leader to take QTG to new heights," said Compton. "He possesses a passion for growth that is unrivaled and is an exceptional developer of people. All of us at QTG and PepsiCo could not be more pleased to have Chuck leading these important businesses and capitalizing on all their potential."
Commenting on his appointment, Maniscalco said "Leading this amazing company is a dream come true. I learned from the day I walked through the doors over 25 years ago that we have many riches, not the least of which are our extremely talented people and market-leading brands. I look forward to continuing to work side-by-side with both, and our untapped opportunities ahead."
PepsiCo is one of the world's largest food and beverage companies with annual revenues of $33 billion. Its principal businesses include Frito-Lay snacks, Pepsi-Cola beverages, Gatorade sports drinks, Tropicana juices and Quaker foods. Its portfolio includes 17 brands that generate $1 billion or more each in annual sales.
About PepsiCo
This release contains statements concerning PepsiCo's expectations for future performance. Any such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. As such they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results and performance may be significantly different from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Please see the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of specific risks that may affect performance.
Cautionary Statement
Prior to being named CEO for PepsiCo North America, Mr. Compton was President & CEO for Quaker-Tropicana-Gatorade (QTG), a position he assumed in 2005. QTG generates over $9 billion in annual revenues and is PepsiCo's leading division in health & wellness foods and beverages. Previously, Compton spent over 20 years at Frito-Lay North America, where he started in 1983 as a production supervisor. He moved from manufacturing into marketing and then sales assignments, serving as Senior Vice President of Sales and Chief Marketing Officer. He ultimately was named Vice Chairman and President of the North American Salty Snacks Division at Frito-Lay before moving to QTG. Mr. Compton is a member of the advisory board of directors at the University of Tennessee, the Commercial Club of Chicago, the Civic Committee and The Executive's Club of Chicago. He also chaired the 2004 and 2005 American Heart Walks in Dallas. Mr. Compton is a graduate of the University of Tennessee.
John C. Compton (45 years)
Mr. Maniscalco most recently was President  Gatorade/Propel at Quaker-Tropicana-Gatorade (QTG), before being appointed President & CEO of QTG. Before assuming his Gatorade/Propel role in 2002, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Convenience Foods for Frito-Lay North America. Mr. Maniscalco started his career at Quaker Oats in 1980 as a market research analyst. Over the years he moved throughout the company in a wide variety of roles, including marketing and general management positions encompassing Quaker's food, beverages and pet food divisions. He is a member of the board of directors for The (Chicago) Museum of Science and Industry and The Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago. Mr. Maniscalco holds degrees from Bowling Green State University in Ohio.
Charles (Chuck) I. Maniscalco (53 years)


