FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20070207172629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) In order to align with emerging governance trends, the Board of Directors of PepsiCo, Inc. ("PepsiCo") approved an amendment to the PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2003 LTIP") to provide "double trigger" change-in-control treatment for awards made on or after February 2, 2007. Pursuant to this amendment, an employees outstanding options, restricted stock units and other awards will vest in the event that either (A) the employee is terminated without "cause" (as defined in the 2003 LTIP) or resigns for "good reason" (as defined in the 2003 LTIP) within two years after a change in control of PepsiCo or (B) the acquirer does not assume the awards upon the change in control. The foregoing description of the amendment to the 2003 LTIP does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the amendment which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein. Forms of award agreements un der the 2003 LTIP to be used in connection with awards made to executive officers on or after February 2, 2007 reflecting the amendment described above are attached hereto as exhibits and are hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 10.1 Amendment to the PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective as of February 2, 2007 10.2 Form of Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement 10.3 Form of Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement 10.4 Form of Pro Rata Long-Term Incentive Award Agreement 10.5 Form of Stock Option Retention Award Agreement 10.6 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Retention Award Agreement
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
The following text shall replace in its entirety the current text of Section 11 in the PepsiCo, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan:
11. Change in Control.
(a) . Upon a Change in Control, the following shall apply with respect to Awards granted under the Plan prior to February 2, 2007:
Impact on Awards Granted Prior to February 2, 2007
(i) . Effective on the date of such Change in Control, all outstanding and unvested Options granted under the Plan shall immediately vest and become exercisable, and all Options then outstanding under the Plan shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, in the event that any Option granted under the Plan becomes unexercisable during its term on or after a Change in Control because: (i) the individual who holds such Option is involuntarily terminated (other than for cause) within two (2) years after the Change in Control; (ii) such Option is terminated or adversely modified; or (iii) Common Stock is no longer issued and outstanding, or no longer traded on a national securities exchange, then the holder of such Option shall immediately be entitled to receive a lump sum cash payment equal to (A) the gain on such Option or (B) only if greater than the gain and only with respect to NQSOs the Black-Scholes value of such Option (as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banker chosen by PepsiCo), in either case calculated on the date such Option becomes unexercisable. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the gain on an Option shall be calculated as the difference between the closing price per share of Common Stock as of the date such Option becomes unexercisable less the Option Exercise Price.
Options
(ii) . Effective on the date of such Change in Control, all outstanding and unvested SARs granted under the Plan shall immediately vest and become exercisable, and all SARs then outstanding under the Plan shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms. In the event that any SAR granted under the Plan becomes unexercisable during its term on or after a Change in Control because: (i) the individual who holds such SAR is involuntarily terminated (other than for cause) within two (2) years after the Change in Control; (ii) such SAR is terminated or adversely modified; or (iii) Common Stock is no longer issued and outstanding, or no longer traded on a national securities exchange, then the holder of such SAR shall immediately be entitled to receive a lump sum cash payment equal to the gain on such SAR. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the gain on a SAR shall be calculated as the difference between the closing price per share of Common Stock as of the date such SAR becomes unexercisable and the purchase price per share of Common Stock covered by the SAR.
Stock Appreciation Rights
(iii) . Upon a Change of Control all Restricted Shares and Restricted Share Units shall immediately vest and be distributed to Participants, effective as of the date of the Change of Control.
Restricted Shares/Restricted Share Units
(iv) . Each Performance Award granted under the Plan that is outstanding on the date of the Change in Control shall immediately vest and the holder of such Performance Award shall be entitled to a lump sum cash payment equal to the amount of such Performance Award payable at the end of the Performance Period as if 100% of the Performance Goals have been achieved.
Performance Awards
(b) . Upon a Change in Control, the following shall apply with respect to Awards granted under the Plan on or after February 2, 2007:
Impact on Awards Granted on or After February 2, 2007
(i) If and to the extent that outstanding Awards under the Plan (A) are assumed by the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) or (B) are replaced with equity awards that preserve the existing value of the Awards at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule and Performance Goals, as applicable, that are the same or more favorable to the Participants than the vesting schedule and Performance Goals applicable to the Awards, then all such Awards or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provision of the Plan subject to Section 11(b)(iv) below.
(ii) If and to the extent that outstanding Awards under the Plan are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Section 11(b)(i) above, then upon the Change in Control the following treatment (referred to as "Change-in-Control Treatment") shall apply to such Awards: (A) outstanding Options and SARs shall immediately vest and become exercisable; (B) the restrictions and other conditions applicable to outstanding Restricted Shares, Restricted Share Units and Stock Awards, including vesting requirements, shall immediately lapse; such Awards shall be free of all restrictions and fully vested; and, with respect to Restricted Share Units, shall be payable immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A; and (C) outstanding Performance Awards granted under the Plan shall immediately vest and shall become immediately payable in accordance with their terms as if 100% of the Performance Goals have been achieved.
(iii) If and to the extent that outstanding Awards under the Plan are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Section 11(b)(i) above, then in connection with the application of the Change-in-Control Treatment set forth in Section 11(b)(ii) above, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of such outstanding Awards at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to each such Participant upon the consummation of the Change in Control that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that is at least equal to the excess (if any) of the value of the consideration that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of PepsiCo's securities relating to such Awards over the exercise or purchase price (if any) for such Awards.
(iv) If and to the extent that (A) outstanding Awards are assumed or replaced in accordance with Section 11(b)(i) above and (B) a Participant's employment with, or performance of services for, the Company is terminated by the Company for any reasons other than Cause or by such Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of such Participant's termination, the Change-in-Control Treatment set forth in Section 11(b)(ii) above shall apply to all assumed or replaced Awards of such Participant then outstanding.
(v) Outstanding Options or SARs that are assumed or replaced in accordance with Section 11(b)(i) may be exercised by the Participant in accordance with the applicable terms and conditions of such Award as set forth in the applicable award agreement or elsewhere; provided, however, that Options or SARs that become exercisable in accordance with Section 11(b)(iv) may be exercised until the expiration of the original full term of such Option or SAR notwithstanding the other original terms and conditions of such Award.
(c) . Any amount required to be paid pursuant to this Section 11 shall be paid as soon as practical after the date such amount becomes payable.
Timing of Payment
(d)  "Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) acquisition of 20% or more of the outstanding voting securities of PepsiCo, Inc. by another entity or group; excluding, however, the following (A) any acquisition by PepsiCo, Inc., or (B) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan or related trust sponsored or maintained by PepsiCo, Inc.; (ii) during any consecutive two-year period, persons who constitute the Board of Directors of PepsiCo, Inc. (the "Board") at the beginning of the period cease to constitute at least 50% of the Board (unless the election of each new Board member was approved by a majority of directors who began the two-year period); (iii) PepsiCo, Inc. shareholders approve a merger or consolidation of PepsiCo, Inc. with another company, and PepsiCo, Inc. is not the surviving company; or, if after such transaction, the other entity owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of PepsiCo, Inc.; (iv) PepsiCo, Inc. shareholders approve a plan of complete liquidation of PepsiCo, Inc. or the sale or disposition of all or substantially all of PepsiCo, Inc.'s assets; or (v) any other event, circumstance, offer or proposal occurs or is made, which is intended to effect a change in the control of PepsiCo, Inc., and which results in the occurrence of one or more of the events set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) of this paragraph.
Definition of Change in Control.
(e) . For purposes of this Section 11, "Cause" means with respect to any Participant, unless otherwise provided in the applicable award agreement, (i) the Participant's willful misconduct that materially injures the Company; (ii) the Participant's conviction of a felony or a plea of nolo contendere by Participant with respect to a felony; or (iii) the Participant's continued failure to substantially perform his or her duties with the Company (other than by reason of the Participant's disability) after written demand by the Company that identifies the manner in which the Company believes that the Participant has not performed his or her duties. A termination for Cause must be communicated to the Participant by written notice that specifies the event or events claimed to provide a basis for termination for Cause.
Definition of Cause
(f) . For purposes of this Section 11, "Good Reason" means with respect to any Participant, unless otherwise provided in the applicable award agreement, without the Participant's written consent, (i) the Company's requiring the Participant's principal place of employment to be based at any location in excess of thirty-five (35) miles from his or her primary place of employment as it existed immediately prior to the Change in Control except for reasonably required travel on the Company's business that is not greater than such travel requirements prior to the Change in Control; (ii) a reduction in the Participant's base salary or wage rate or target annual or long-term cash incentive opportunities as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control (other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure that is promptly remedied by the Company upon notice from the Participant) or failure to provide compensation and benefits that are substantially similar in the aggregate to those provided for by the Company immediately prior to the Change in Control; or (iii) a material reduction in the Participant's job responsibilities, position or duties with the Company as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control. A termination for Good Reason must be communicated to the Company by written notice that specifies the event or events claimed to provide a basis for termination for Good Reason; provided that the Participant's written notice must be tendered within ninety (90) days of the occurrence of such event or events.
Definition of Good Reason
(g) . The rights provided by this Section are the exclusive rights that are available with respect to any Award in the event of a Change in Control.
Exclusive Rights

Exhibit 10.2
These Terms and Conditions, along with the PepsiCo Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary), by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted to it in said Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on or prior to the Grant Date, authorized the grant to the Participant of the stock options and/or restricted stock units set forth on the Award Summary; and
WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
A. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the stock options, if any, granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Stock Options
1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the right and option to purchase the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, par value $.0167 per share, indicated on the Award Summary, at the Grant/Exercise Price per share indicated on the Award Summary (the "Option Exercise Price"), which was the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of PepsiCo Common Stock on the Grant Date. The right to purchase each such share is referred to herein as an "Option." All Options granted hereunder shall be "Non-Qualified Stock Options" as defined in the Plan.
Grant
2.  . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Options shall become fully vested on the vesting date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Vesting Date") and shall be exercisable from the Vesting Date through the expiration date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Expiration Date"). Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Once vested and exercisable, and until terminated, all or any portion of the Options may be exercised from time to time and at any time under procedures that the Committee or its delegate shall establish from time to time, including, without limitation, procedures regarding the frequency of exercise and the minimum number of Options which may be exercised at any time.
Vesting and Exercisability
3. . Subject to terms and conditions set forth herein, Options may be exercised by giving written notice of exercise to PepsiCo in the manner specified from time to time by PepsiCo. The aggregate Option Exercise Price for the shares being purchased, together with any amount which the Company may be required to withhold upon such exercise in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of issuance of such shares.
Exercise Procedure
4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
(a) . Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, no vesting shall occur following the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company, and all unvested Options shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. Only vested Options may be exercised. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), vested Options shall be exercisable until, and shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon, the earlier of the Expiration Date and the date that is the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange during the 90-calendar day period after the date the Participant's employment with the Company terminates. It is intended that an authorized leave of absence may extend employment (and thus extend when Options may be exercised). However, an authorized leave will not extend the time to exercise Options to the extent the extension would cause the Options to be subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and an authorized leave will not increase vesting.
Termination of Employment
(b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below) prior to attaining at least age 62, then: (i) a portion of the Options shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such portion determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date; (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(b); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Retirement Prior to Age 62
(c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then: (i) the Options shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability); (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(c); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative (or any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution), in the event of death, or the Participant, in the event of Retirement or Total Disability, prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
(d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below), as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Options shall become fully vested on the date of such transfer and shall become exercisable as soon as practicable thereafter and shall otherwise remain outstanding and be exercisable in accordance with this Agreement.
Transfers to a Related Entity
5. . Except as provided in Paragraph C.3, at any time after any Option becomes exercisable, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, to cancel such Option and to cause PepsiCo to pay to the Participant the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by such Option over the Option Exercise Price of such Option as of the date the Committee provides written notice (the "Buy Out Notice") of its intention to exercise such right. Payments of such buy out amounts pursuant to this provision shall be effected by PepsiCo as promptly as possible after the date of the Buy Out Notice and shall be made in shares of Common Stock. The number of shares shall be determined by dividing the amount of the payment to be made by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of the Buy Out Notice, and by rounding up any fractional share to a whole share. Payments of any such buy out amounts shall be made net of the minimum applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local withholding taxes, if any.
Buy-Out of Option Gains
6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Options granted hereunder unless and until such Options are exercised and the shares have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
B. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the restricted stock units, if any, granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Restricted Stock Units
1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the number of restricted stock units indicated on the Award Summary (the "Restricted Stock Units").
Grant
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and subparagraphs 2(a) and (b) below, the Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested on the Vesting Date and shall be payable as soon as practicable after that date. Restricted Stock Units may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. The Restricted Stock Units payable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be reduced by any Restricted Stock Units that are paid pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b) below.
Vesting
(a) . A Participant shall be vested in 33% of his Restricted Stock Units on the first February 1 that follows the Grant Date if on such February 1 the Participant: (i) is eligible for Retirement, (ii) is not yet age 62, and (iii) has been actively employed by the Company continuously since the Grant Date. This vested portion shall be paid as soon as practicable after this February 1. A Participant shall be vested in 66% of his Restricted Stock Units on the second February 1 that follows the Grant Date if on such February 1 the conditions in (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Paragraph B.2(a) are satisfied. This vested portion shall be paid as soon as practicable after this second February 1 (net of any Restricted Stock Units previously paid out).
Eligibility for Retirement Prior to Age 62
(b) . A Participant shall be fully vested in his Restricted Stock Units on the first February 1 that follows the Grant Date if on such February 1 the Participant: (i) is eligible for Retirement, (ii) is at least age 62, and (iii) has been actively employed by the Company continuously since the Grant Date. The Participant's Restricted Stock Units shall be payable as soon as practicable after this February 1. A Participant shall be fully vested in his Restricted Stock Units on the second February 1 that follows the Grant Date if on such February 1 the conditions in (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Paragraph B.2(b) are satisfied. The Participant's Restricted Stock Units shall be payable as soon as practicable after this second February 1 (net of any Restricted Stock Units previously paid out).
Eligibility for Retirement on or After Age 62
3. . Restricted Stock Units that vest and become payable shall be settled in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock with the Participant receiving one share of PepsiCo Common Stock for each vested Restricted Stock Unit. No fractional shares shall be delivered under this Agreement, and so any fractional share that may be payable shall be rounded to the nearest whole share. Any amount that the Company may be required to withhold upon the settlement of Restricted Stock Units and/or the payment of dividend equivalents (see Section B.5 below) in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of the issuance of shares or payment of cash. Unless the Participant makes other arrangements to satisfy this withholding obligation in accordance with procedures approved by the Company in its discretion, the Company shall withhold shares to satisfy the required withholding obligation related to the settlement of Restricted Stock Units.
Payment
4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
(a) . Restricted Stock Units may vest and become payable only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, vesting ceases upon the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall automatically be forfeited and canceled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates.
Termination of Employment
(b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement prior to attaining age 62, then a whole number of Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such number determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date, and shall be payable as soon as practicable after that date (net of any Restricted Stock Units previously paid out).
Retirement Prior to Age 62
(c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then the Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability) and will be payable as soon as practicable after that date (net of any Restricted Stock Units previously paid out).
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
(d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below), as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested on the date of such transfer and shall be payable as soon as practicable after that date (net of any Restricted Stock Units previously paid out).
Transfers to a Related Entity
5. . During the vesting period, the Participant shall accumulate dividend equivalents with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, which dividend equivalents shall be paid in cash (without interest) to the Participant only if and when the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest and become payable. Dividend equivalents shall equal the dividends actually paid with respect to PepsiCo Common Stock during the vesting period while (and to the extent) the Restricted Stock Units remain outstanding and unpaid.
Dividend Equivalents
6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder unless and until such Restricted Stock Units have been settled in shares of Common Stock that have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
C. .
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units
1. .
Prohibited Conduct
(a) The Participant agrees that, at any time prior to the exercise of the Options or vesting of the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder, and for a period of twelve months after the later of (i) completion of all such exercises of Stock Options, (ii) vesting of Restricted Stock Units or (iii) termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including Retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not engage in any of the following activities anywhere in the world:
(1) . Participant shall not accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or acquire any ownership interest, which involves the Participant's Participation in a business entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such business entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company.
Non-Competition
(2) . Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
Raiding Employees
(3) . Participant shall not use or disclose to anyone any confidential information regarding the Company other than as necessary in his or her position with the Company. Such confidential information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such confidential information include, without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations and structure; its product lines, formulas and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its financial data; and its plans and strategies.
Non-Disclosure
(4) . Participant shall not engage in any acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests, including, but not limited to, violating the Company's Code of Conduct, engaging in unlawful trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or engaging in any other activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
(b) In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached any term of Paragraph C.1(a), in addition to any other remedies the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
(1) Cancel any unexercised Options or unvested Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder;
(2) Require the Participant to pay to the Company all gains realized from the exercise of any Options granted hereunder, which have been exercised within the twelve-month period immediately preceding the date as of which the Participant has breached a provision of Paragraph C.1(a), as determined by the Company; and/or
(3) Require the Participant to pay to the Company the value (determined as of the Vesting Date) of any Restricted Stock Units, which have vested within the twelve-month period immediately preceding the date as of which the Participant has breached a provision of Paragraph C.1(a), as determined by the Company.
2. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, (a) the number and type of shares which the Participant may purchase pursuant to the Options and the Option Exercise Price at which the Participant may purchase such shares shall be adjusted, and (b) the number and type of shares to which the Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant relate shall be adjusted, in the case of (a) and (b), as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
3. . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
(a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder or (2) replaces the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Options and Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule that is the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule applicable to such Options and Restricted Stock Units, then the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to Paragraph C.3(c) below.
(b) If the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.3(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms and the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be payable immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A and (2), notwithstanding Paragraph C.3(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that, in the case of the Restricted Stock Units, is at least equal to the value of the consideration that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of PepsiCo's securities relating to such awards and, in the case of the outstanding Options, is at least equal to the excess, if any, of the value of such consideration over the Option Exercise Price for such Options.
(c) If the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.3(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding until the Expiration Date and (2) the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be payable immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A. For purposes of this Paragraph C.3, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
4. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Options and Restricted Stock Units are personal to the Participant and, with respect to Options, during the Participant's lifetime, such Options may be exercised only by the Participant, and (b) the Options and Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable or assignable, other than in the case of the Participant's death by will, the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
5. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
(a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks, and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
(b) "Fair Market Value" of a share of PepsiCo Common Stock on any date shall mean an amount equal to the mean of the high and low sales prices for a share of PepsiCo Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. on the date in question (or if no sales of Common Stock were made on said Exchange on such date, on the next preceding day on which sales were made on such Exchange), rounded up to nearest one-fourth.
(c) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
(d) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights.
(e) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee (provided that such determination does not cause the Award to be subject to Section 409A of the Code).
(f) "Retirement Date" shall mean the effective date of Retirement.
(g) "Total Disability" shall mean becoming totally and permanently disabled, as determined for purposes of the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (or in the absence of such Disability Plan being applicable to the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
6. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
7. .
Binding Effect
(a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
(b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Options and Restricted Stock Units may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
8. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment, nor does it impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreement
s Survival
9. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
10. . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant (except as necessary to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not waive any right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement.
Amendment; Waiver
11. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
12. . The Participant has been provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan, the Options and the shares covered thereby, and the Restricted Stock Units. By signing the Award Summary, the Participant agrees that he or she has reviewed the Prospectus, and fully understands his or her rights under the Plan. Unless and until the Participant signs the Award Summary and returns the Agreement to the Company, notwithstanding the other terms of this Agreement, the Participant shall not be entitled to the proceeds of any Option exercise or Restricted Stock Unit payment.
Prospectus and Award Acceptance
13. . The Options, Restricted Stock Units and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Board reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Options and Restricted Stock Units outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not be adversely affected thereby (except as necessary to comply with applicable law). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Options or Restricted Stock Units permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
14.  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the Option and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Options and Restricted Stock Units already granted under the Plan), (b) stock options and restricted stock units are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and that the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Options and/or Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Agreement to require options, restricted stock units or other awards to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan, (c) upon exercise of the Options or vesting of Restricted Stock Units the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participant's wages, (d) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments, (e) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock options and stock and the exercise of stock options, including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations, and (f) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Options and Restricted Stock Units will not be subject to Code Section 409A. If notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Restricted Stock Units become subject to Code Section 409A, then the specified time of payment of the Restricted Stock Units for purposes of Code Section 409A shall be the calendar year in which the short-term deferral period expires with respect to the Restricted Stock Unit (or by such later time as may be permitted by Code Section 409A under the circumstances).
Rights to Future Grants; Compliance with Law; Section 409A.
15. . This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of North Carolina, without giving effect to conflict of laws principles.
Governing Law
16. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the parties to this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
Executive Name:
Grant Date:
$
Grant Price:
CORE ANNUAL AWARD
Restricted Stock Units:
Stock Options:
CORE ANNUAL AWARD DETAILS
$ 4x $
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD
US Dollar Value Core Annual Award:
Percentage RSU:
Restricted Stock Unit Award Value:
Grant Price:
Number of Restricted Stock Units Granted:
Vesting Date*:
STOCK OPTIONS AWARD
US Dollar Value Core Annual Award:
Percentage Stock Options:
Stock Option Award Value:
Conversion Factor:
Stock Option Award Face Value:
Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
Number of Options Granted:
Vesting Date*:
Expiration Date:
* 
Vesting and exercisability are subject to the terms and conditions of the award
I accept my PepsiCo Annual Long-Term Incentive Award as described above, subject to all the terms and conditions set forth in the attached.
Sign and date this page. Fax entire agreement to PepsiCo Executive Compensation Dept.
no later than {Date}
. Fax number {x-xxx-xxx-xxxx}.

Exhibit 10.3
These Terms and Conditions, along with the PepsiCo Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary), by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted to it in said Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on or prior to the Grant Date, authorized the grant to the Participant of the stock options and restricted stock units set forth on the Award Summary; and
WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
A. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the stock options granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Stock Options
1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the right and option to purchase the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, par value $.0167 per share, indicated on the Award Summary, at the Grant/Exercise Price per share indicated on the Award Summary (the "Option Exercise Price"), which was the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of PepsiCo Common Stock on the Grant Date. The right to purchase each such share is referred to herein as an "Option." All Options granted hereunder shall be "Non-Qualified Stock Options" as defined in the Plan.
Grant
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Options shall become fully vested on the vesting date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Vesting Date") and shall be exercisable from the Vesting Date through the expiration date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Expiration Date"). Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Once vested and exercisable, and until terminated, all or any portion of the Options may be exercised from time to time and at any time under procedures that the Committee or its delegate shall establish from time to time, including, without limitation, procedures regarding the frequency of exercise and the minimum number of Options which may be exercised at any time.
Vesting and Exercisability
3. . Subject to terms and conditions set forth herein, Options may be exercised by giving written notice of exercise to PepsiCo in the manner specified from time to time by PepsiCo. The aggregate Option Exercise Price for the shares being purchased, together with any amount which the Company may be required to withhold upon such exercise in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of issuance of such shares.
Exercise Procedure
4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
(a) . Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, no vesting shall occur following the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company, and all unvested Options shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. Only vested Options may be exercised. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), vested Options shall be exercisable until, and shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon, the earlier of the Expiration Date and the date that is the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange during the 90-calendar day period after the date the Participant's employment with the Company terminates. It is intended that an authorized leave of absence may extend employment (and thus extend when Options may be exercised). However, an authorized leave will not extend the time to exercise Options to the extent the extension would cause the Options to be subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and an authorized leave will not increase vesting.
Termination of Employment
(b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below) prior to attaining at least age 62, then: (i) a portion of the Options shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such portion determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date; (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(b); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Retirement Prior to Age 62
(c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then: (i) the Options shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability); (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(c); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative (or any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution), in the event of death, or the Participant, in the event of Retirement or Total Disability, prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
(d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below), as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Options shall become fully vested on the date of such transfer and shall become exercisable as soon as practicable thereafter and shall otherwise remain outstanding and be exercisable in accordance with this Agreement.
Transfers to a Related Entity
5. . Except as provided in Paragraph C.3, at any time after any Option becomes exercisable, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, to cancel such Option and to cause PepsiCo to pay to the Participant the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by such Option over the Option Exercise Price of such Option as of the date the Committee provides written notice (the "Buy Out Notice") of its intention to exercise such right. Payments of such buy out amounts pursuant to this provision shall be effected by PepsiCo as promptly as possible after the date of the Buy Out Notice and shall be made in shares of Common Stock. The number of shares shall be determined by dividing the amount of the payment to be made by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of the Buy Out Notice, and by rounding up any fractional share to a whole share. Payments of any such buy out amounts shall be made net of the minimum applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local withholding taxes, if any.
Buy-Out of Option Gains
6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Options granted hereunder unless and until such Options are exercised and the shares have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
B. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the restricted stock units granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Restricted Stock Units
1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the number of restricted stock units indicated on the Award Summary (the "Restricted Stock Units"). All Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are intended to be Performance Awards (as defined in the Plan) that satisfy the conditions for the Performance Based Exception (as defined in the Plan) under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Grant
2. . Subject to Paragraphs B.3 and B.4 below, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the Vesting Date and be payable as soon as practicable after such date (the "Payment Date"). Restricted Stock Units that become payable shall be settled in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock with the Participant receiving one share of PepsiCo Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit. No fractional shares shall be delivered under this Agreement, and so any fractional share that may be payable shall be rounded to the nearest whole share. Any amount that the Company may be required to withhold upon the settlement of Restricted Stock Units and/or the payment of dividend equivalents (see Paragraph B.5 below) in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of the issuance of shares or payment of cash. Unless the Participant makes other arrangements to satisfy this withholding obligation in accordance with procedures approved by the Company in its discretion, the Company will withhold shares to satisfy the required withholding obligation related to the settlement of Restricted Stock Units.
Payment
3. . The number of Restricted Stock Units that are payable shall be determined based on the achievement of performance targets. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to forfeiture as follows:
Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units
(a) The payment of one-third of the Restricted Stock Units shall be determined based on the achievement of specific {Year} performance targets. The specific performance targets and the percentage of the one-third of the Restricted Stock Units that shall be forfeited if such targets are not achieved shall be established by the Committee in the first ninety (90) days of {Year}.
(b) The payment of one-third of the Restricted Stock Units shall be determined based on the achievement of specific {Year+1} performance targets. The specific performance targets and the percentage of the one-third of the Restricted Stock Units that shall be forfeited if such targets are not achieved shall be established by the Committee in the first ninety (90) days of {Year+1}.
(c) The payment of one-third of the Restricted Stock Units shall be determined based on the achievement of specific {Year+2} performance targets. The specific performance targets and the percentage of the one-third of the Restricted Stock Units that shall be forfeited if such targets are not achieved shall be established by the Committee in the first ninety (90) days of {Year+2}.
(d) Notwithstanding the achievement of any performance targets established under Paragraphs B.3(a), (b) and (c) above, the Committee has the discretion to reduce the number of Restricted Stock Units paid, subject to and in accordance with the Plan. In the case of a Participant's death or Total Disability (as defined below), the Committee's right to exercise this discretion shall expire with respect to each one-third of the Restricted Stock Units at the later of: (i) the Participant's death or Total Disability (whichever applies), or (ii) the date the Committee certifies the results for the specific performance targets that relate to such one-third of the Restricted Stock Units. In all other cases, the Committee's right to exercise this discretion with respect to 100% of the Restricted Stock Units shall continue until the Payment Date. Accordingly, except in the case of death or Total Disability, the Restricted Stock Units for which a Participant has satisfied the performance criteria will be payable in one payment on the Payment Date.
4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
(a) . Restricted Stock Units may vest and become payable only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, vesting ceases upon the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall automatically be forfeited and canceled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates.
Termination of Employment
(b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below) prior to attaining at least age 62, then a whole number of Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such number determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date. All Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with the foregoing sentence shall remain subject to the payment and forfeiture provisions of Paragraphs B.2 and B.3.
Retirement Prior to Age 62
(c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then the Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability). All such vested Restricted Stock Units shall remain subject to the payment and forfeiture provisions of Paragraphs B.2 and B.3, except that in the case of death or Total Disability payment of each one-third of the Restricted Stock Units will be made as soon as practicable after the Committee's right to exercise discretion with respect to such one-third expires in accordance with Paragraph B.3(d).
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
(d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below), as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company. All such vested Restricted Stock Units shall remain subject to the payment and forfeiture provisions of Paragraphs B.2 and B.3.
Transfers to a Related Entity
5. . During the vesting period, the Participant shall accumulate dividend equivalents with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, which dividend equivalents shall be paid in cash (without interest) to the Participant only if and when the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest and become payable. Dividend equivalents shall equal the dividends actually paid with respect to PepsiCo Common Stock during the vesting period while (and to the extent) the Restricted Stock Units remain outstanding and unpaid.
Dividend Equivalents
6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder unless and until such Restricted Stock Units have been settled in shares of Common Stock that have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
C. .
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units
1. .
Prohibited Conduct
(a) The Participant agrees that, at any time prior to the exercise of the Options or payment of the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder, and for a period of twelve months after the later of (i) completion of all such exercises of Stock Options, (ii) payment of Restricted Stock Units or (iii) termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including Retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not engage in any of the following activities anywhere in the world:
(1) . Participant shall not accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or acquire any ownership interest, which involves the Participant's Participation in a business entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such business entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company.
Non-Competition
(2) . Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
Raiding Employees
(3) . Participant shall not use or disclose to anyone any confidential information regarding the Company other than as necessary in his or her position with the Company. Such confidential information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such confidential information include, without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations and structure; its product lines, formulas and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its financial data; and its plans and strategies.
Non-Disclosure
(4) . Participant shall not engage in any acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests, including, but not limited to, violating the Company's Code of Conduct, engaging in unlawful trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or engaging in any other activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
(b) In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached any term of Paragraph C.1(a), in addition to any other remedies the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
(1) Cancel any unexercised Options or unpaid Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder;
(2) Require the Participant to pay to the Company all gains realized from the exercise of any Options granted hereunder, which have been exercised within the twelve-month period immediately preceding the date as of which the Participant has breached a provision of Paragraph C.1(a), as determined by the Company; and/or
(3) Require the Participant to pay to the Company the value (determined as of the date restrictions on the Restricted Stock Units lapse) of any Restricted Stock Units, which have been paid within the twelve-month period immediately preceding the date as of which the Participant has breached a provision of Paragraph C.1(a), as determined by the Company.
2. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, (a) the number and type of shares which the Participant may purchase pursuant to the Options and the Option Exercise Price at which the Participant may purchase such shares shall be adjusted, and (b) the number and type of shares to which the Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant relate shall be adjusted, in the case of (a) and (b), as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
3. . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
(a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder or (2) replaces the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Options and Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule and performance targets, as applicable, that are the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule and performance targets applicable to such Options and Restricted Stock Units, then the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to Paragraph C.3(c) below.
(b) If the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.3(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms and the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be payable, as if 100% of the performance targets have been achieved, immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A and (2), notwithstanding Paragraph C.3(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that, in the case of the Restricted Stock Units, is at least equal to the value of the consideration that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of PepsiCo's securities relating to such awards and, in the case of the outstanding Options, is at least equal to the excess, if any, of the value of such consideration over the Option Exercise Price for such Options.
(c) If the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.3(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding until the Expiration Date and (2) the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be payable, as if 100% of the performance targets have been achieved, immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A. For purposes of this Paragraph C.3, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
4. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Options and Restricted Stock Units are personal to the Participant and, with respect to Options, during the Participant's lifetime, such Options may be exercised only by the Participant, and (b) the Options and Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable or assignable, other than in the case of the Participant's death by will, the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
5. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
(a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks, and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
(b) "Fair Market Value" of a share of PepsiCo Common Stock on any date shall mean an amount equal to the mean of the high and low sales prices for a share of PepsiCo Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. on the date in question (or if no sales of Common Stock were made on said Exchange on such date, on the next preceding day on which sales were made on such Exchange), rounded up to nearest one-fourth.
(c) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
(d) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights.
(e) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee (provided that such determination does not cause the Award to be subject to Section 409A of the Code).
(f) "Retirement Date" shall mean the effective date of Retirement.
(g) "Total Disability" shall mean becoming totally and permanently disabled, as determined for purposes of the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (or in the absence of such Disability Plan being applicable to the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
6. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
7. .
Binding Effect
(a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
(b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Options and Restricted Stock Units may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
8. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment, nor does it impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreements Survival
9. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
10.  . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant (except as necessary to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not waive any right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement.
Amendment; Waiver
11. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
12. . The Participant has been provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan, the Options and the shares covered thereby, and the Restricted Stock Units. By signing the Award Summary, the Participant agrees that he or she has reviewed the Prospectus, and fully understands his or her rights under the Plan. Unless and until the Participant signs the Award Summary and returns the Agreement to the Company, notwithstanding the other terms of this Agreement, the Participant shall not be entitled to the proceeds of any Option exercise or Restricted Stock Unit payment.
Prospectus and Award Acceptance
13. . The Options, Restricted Stock Units and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Board reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Options and Restricted Stock Units outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not be adversely affected thereby (except as necessary to comply with applicable law). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Options or Restricted Stock Units permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
14.  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the Option and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Options and Restricted Stock Units already granted under the Plan), (b) stock options and restricted stock units are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and that the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Options and/or Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Agreement to require options, restricted stock units or other awards to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan, (c) upon exercise of the Options or vesting of Restricted Stock Units the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participant's wages, (d) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments, (e) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock options and stock and the exercise of stock options, including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations, and (f) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Options and Restricted Stock Units will not be subject to Code Section 409A. If notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Restricted Stock Units become subject to Code Section 409A, then the specified time of payment of the Restricted Stock Units for purposes of Code Section 409A shall be the calendar year in which the short-term deferral period expires (or by such later time as may be permitted by Code Section 409A under the circumstances).
Rights to Future Grants; Compliance with Law; Section 409A.
15. . This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of North Carolina, without giving effect to conflict of laws principles.
Governing Law
16. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the parties to this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
Executive Name:
Grant Date:
$
Grant Price:
CORE ANNUAL AWARD
Restricted Stock Units:
Stock Options:
CORE ANNUAL AWARD DETAILS
$ 4x $
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD
US Dollar Value Core Annual Award:
Percentage RSU:
Restricted Stock Unit Award Value:
Grant Price:
Number of Restricted Stock Units Granted:
Vesting Date*:
STOCK OPTIONS AWARD
US Dollar Value Core Annual Award:
Percentage Stock Options:
Stock Option Award Value:
Conversion Factor:
Stock Option Award Face Value:
Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
Number of Options Granted:
Vesting Date*:
Expiration Date:
* Vesting and exercisability are subject to the terms and conditions of the award
I accept my PepsiCo Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award as described above, subject to all the terms and conditions set forth in the attached.
Sign and date this page. Fax entire agreement to PepsiCo Executive Compensation Dept.
no later than {Date}
. Fax number {x-xxx-xxx-xxxx}.

Exhibit 10.4
These Terms and Conditions, along with the PepsiCo Pro Rata Long-Term Incentive Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary), by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted to it in said Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on or prior to the Grant Date, authorized the granting of stock options to newly hired or promoted executives; and
WHEREAS, the Committee now desires to grant to the Participant the stock options set forth on the Award Summary (the "Options"); and
WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
A. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the Options granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Options
1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of PepsiCo, or one of its divisions or direct or indirect subsidiaries (collectively the "Company"), PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the right and option to purchase the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, par value $.0167 per share, indicated on the Award Summary, at the Grant/Exercise Price per share indicated on the Award Summary (the "Option Exercise Price"), which was the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of PepsiCo Common Stock on the Grant Date. The right to purchase each such share is referred to herein as an "Option." All Options granted hereunder shall be "Non-Qualified Stock Options" as defined in the Plan.
Grant
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Options shall become fully vested on the vesting/exercisable date set forth on the Award Summary (the "Vesting Date") and shall be exercisable from the Vesting Date through the expiration date set forth on the Award Summary (the "Expiration Date"). Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Once vested and exercisable, and until terminated, all or any portion of the Options may be exercised from time to time and at any time under procedures that the Committee or its delegate shall establish from time to time, including, without limitation, procedures regarding the frequency of exercise and the minimum number of Options which may be exercised at any time.
Vesting and Exercisability
3. . Subject to terms and conditions set forth herein, Options may be exercised by giving written notice of exercise to PepsiCo in the manner specified from time to time by PepsiCo. The aggregate Option Exercise Price for the shares being purchased, together with any amount which the Company may be required to withhold upon such exercise in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of issuance of such shares.
Exercise Procedure
4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
(a) . Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, no vesting shall occur following the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company, and all unvested Options shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. Only vested Options may be exercised. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), vested Options shall be exercisable until, and shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon, the earlier of the Expiration Date and the date that is the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange during the 90-calendar day period after the date the Participant's employment with the Company terminates. It is intended that an authorized leave of absence may extend employment (and thus extend when Options may be exercised). However, an authorized leave will not extend the time to exercise Options to the extent the extension would cause the Options to be subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and an authorized leave will not increase vesting.
Termination of Employment
(b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below) prior to attaining at least age 62, then: (i) a portion of the Options shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such portion determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date; (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(b); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Retirement Prior to Age 62
(c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then: (i) the Options shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability); (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(c); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative (or any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution), in the event of death, or the Participant, in the event of Retirement or Total Disability, prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
(d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below), as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Options shall become fully vested on the date of such transfer and shall become exercisable as soon as practicable thereafter and shall otherwise remain outstanding and be exercisable in accordance with this Agreement.
Transfers to a Related Entity
5. . Except as provided in Paragraph B.3, at any time after any Option becomes exercisable, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, to cancel such Option and to cause PepsiCo to pay to the Participant the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by such Option over the Option Exercise Price of such Option as of the date the Committee provides written notice (the "Buy Out Notice") of its intention to exercise such right. Payments of such buy out amounts pursuant to this provision shall be effected by PepsiCo as promptly as possible after the date of the Buy Out Notice and shall be made in shares of Common Stock. The number of shares shall be determined by dividing the amount of the payment to be made by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of the Buy Out Notice, and by rounding up any fractional share to a whole share. Payments of any such buy out amounts shall be made net of the minimum applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local withholding taxes, if any.
Buy-Out of Option Gains
6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Options granted hereunder unless and until such Options are exercised and the shares have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
B. .
General Terms and Conditions
1. .
Prohibited Conduct
(a) The Participant agrees that, at any time prior to the exercise of the Options granted hereunder, and for a period of twelve months after the later of (i) completion of all such exercises of Stock Options, or (ii) termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including Retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not engage in any of the following activities anywhere in the world:
(1) . Participant shall not accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or acquire any ownership interest, which involves the Participant's Participation in a business entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such business entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company.
Non-Competition
(2) . Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
Raiding Employees
(3) . Participant shall not use or disclose to anyone any confidential information regarding the Company other than as necessary in his or her position with the Company. Such confidential information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such confidential information include, without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations and structure; its product lines, formulas and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its financial data; and its plans and strategies.
Non-Disclosure
(4) . Participant shall not engage in any acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests, including, but not limited to, violating the Company's Code of Conduct, engaging in unlawful trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or engaging in any other activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
(b) In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached any term of Paragraph B.1(a), in addition to any other remedies the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
(1) Cancel any unexercised Options granted hereunder; and/or
(2) Require the Participant to pay to the Company all gains realized from the exercise of any Options granted hereunder, which have been exercised within the twelve-month period immediately preceding the date as of which the Participant has breached a provision of Paragraph B.1(a), as determined by the Company.
2. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, the number and type of shares which the Participant may purchase pursuant to the Options and the Option Exercise Price at which the Participant may purchase such shares shall be adjusted as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
3. . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
(a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Options or (2) replaces the outstanding Options with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Options at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule that is the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule applicable to such Options, then the outstanding Options or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to Paragraph B.3(c) below.
(b) If the outstanding Options granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph B.3(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms and (2) notwithstanding Paragraph B.3(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Options at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that is at least equal to the excess, if any, of the value of such consideration over the Option Exercise Price for such Options.
(c) If the outstanding Options granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph B.3(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding until the Expiration Date. For purposes of this Paragraph B.3, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
4. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Options are personal to the Participant and, during the Participant's lifetime, such Options may be exercised only by the Participant, and (b) the Options shall not be transferable or assignable, other than in the case of the Participant's death by will, the laws of descent and distribution or such beneficiary designation process established by the Committee (or its delegate), and any such purported transfer or assignment shall be null and void.
Nontransferability
5. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
(a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
(b) "Fair Market Value" of a share of PepsiCo Common Stock on any date shall mean an amount equal to the mean of the high and low sales prices for a share of PepsiCo Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. on the date in question (or if no sales of Common Stock were made on said Exchange on such date, on the next preceding day on which sales were made on such Exchange), rounded up to nearest one-fourth.
(c) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
(d) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights.
(e) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee (provided that such determination does not cause the Award to be subject to Section 409A of the Code).
(f) "Retirement Date" shall mean the effective date of Retirement.
(g) "Total Disability" shall mean becoming totally and permanently disabled, as determined for purposes of the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (or in the absence of such Disability Plan being applicable to the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
6. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
7. .
Binding Effect
(a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
(b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
8. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment, nor does it impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreement's Survival
9. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
10. . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant (except as necessary to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not waive any right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement.
Amendment; Waiver
11. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
12. . The Participant has been provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan, the Options and the shares covered thereby. By signing the Award Summary, the Participant agrees that he or she has reviewed the Prospectus, and fully understands his or her rights under the Plan. Unless and until the Participant signs the Award Summary and returns the Agreement to the Company, notwithstanding the other terms of this Agreement, the Participant shall not be entitled to the proceeds of any Option exercise.
Prospectus and Award Acceptance
13. . The Options, Restricted Stock Units and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Board reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Options and Restricted Stock Units outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not be adversely affected thereby (except as necessary to comply with applicable law). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Options or Restricted Stock Units permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
14.  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the Option grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Options already granted under the Plan), (b) stock options are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and that the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Options pursuant to this Agreement to require options to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan, (c) upon exercise of the Options the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participants wages, (d) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments, (e) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock options and stock and the exercise of stock options, including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations, and (f) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Options will not be subject to Code Section 409A.
Rights to Future Grants; Compliance with Law; Section 409A.
15. . This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of North Carolina, without giving effect to conflict of laws principles.
Governing Law
16. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the parties to this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
Executive Name:
Hire/Promotion Effective Date:
Grant Date:
Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
STOCK OPTION GRANT DETAILS
Award Face Value:
Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
Number of Stock Options Granted:
Vesting Date*:
Expiration Date:
* 
Vesting and exercisability are subject to terms and conditions of the award
By signing below, I confirm my agreement with the foregoing information and accept the Stock Options described above subject to all the terms and conditions as described herein.
Date:
     
Sign and date this page. Fax entire agreement to PepsiCo Executive Compensation Dept.
no later than {Date}
. Fax number {x-xxx-xxx-xxxx}.

Exhibit 10.5
These Terms and Conditions along with the PepsiCo Stock Option Retention Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary) by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted to it in said Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on or prior to the Grant Date, authorized the grant to the Participant of the stock options set forth on the Award Summary; and
WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the right and option to purchase the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, par value $.0167 per share, indicated on the Award Summary at the Grant/Exercise Price per share indicated on the Award Summary (the "Option Exercise Price"), which was the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of PepsiCo Common Stock on the Grant Date. The right to purchase each such share is referred to herein as an "Option." All Options granted hereunder shall be "Non-Qualified Stock Options" as defined in the Plan.
Grant
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the number of Options specified in the Award Summary shall become vested on each vesting date set forth in the Award Summary ("Vesting Date"). The specified number of Options shall be exercisable from the applicable Vesting Date through the expiration date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Expiration Date"). Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Once vested and exercisable, and until terminated, all or any portion of the Options may be exercised from time to time and at any time under procedures that the Committee or its delegate shall establish from time to time, including, without limitation, procedures regarding the frequency of exercise and the minimum number of Options which may be exercised at any time.
Vesting and Exercisability
3. . Subject to terms and conditions set forth herein, Options may be exercised by giving written notice of exercise to PepsiCo in the manner specified from time to time by PepsiCo. The aggregate Option Exercise Price for the shares being purchased, together with any amount which the Company may be required to withhold upon such exercise in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of issuance of such shares.
Exercise Procedure
4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
(a) . Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, no vesting shall occur following the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company, and all unvested Options shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. Only vested options may be exercised. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), vested Options shall be exercisable until, and shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon, the earlier of the Expiration Date and the date that is the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange during the 90-calendar day period after the date the Participant's employment with the Company terminates. It is intended that an authorized leave of absence may extend employment (and thus extend when Options may be exercised). However, an authorized leave will not extend the time to exercise options to the extent the extension would cause the Options to be subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and an authorized leave will not increase vesting.
Termination of Employment
(b) . If the Participant's employment terminates, by reason of the Participant's death or Total Disability (as defined below), then: (i) a portion of the Options shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability), with such portion determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date for the Options (determined separately for the specified number of Options related to each Vesting Date); (ii) the Options (that are vested as provided above) shall continue to become exercisable on the applicable Vesting Date in accordance with this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(b); and (iii) the Options (that are vested as provided above) may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative (or any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution), in the event of death, or the Participant, in the event of Total Disability, in accordance with this Agreement.
Death or Total Disability
(c) . In the event that, prior to the expiration of the Options, the Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below), then the Participant shall continue to be vested with and have the right to exercise those Options which are vested and exercisable as of the Participant's Retirement Date. Any Options which are not vested as of the Participant's Retirement Date shall automatically expire and terminate on the Retirement Date.
Retirement
(d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below), as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Options shall become fully vested on the date of such transfer and shall become exercisable as soon as practicable thereafter and shall otherwise remain outstanding and be exercisable in accordance with this Agreement.
Transfers to a Related Entity
5. .
Prohibited Conduct
(a) The Participant agrees that, at any time prior to the exercise of the Options granted hereunder, and for a period of twenty-four months after the later of (i) completion of all such exercises or (ii) termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including Retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not engage in any of the following activities anywhere in the world:
(1) . Participant shall not accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or acquire any ownership interest, which involves the Participant's participation in a business entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such business entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company.
Non-Competition
(2) . Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
Raiding Employees
(3) . Participant shall not use or disclose to anyone any confidential information regarding the Company other than as necessary in his or her position with the Company. Such confidential information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such confidential information include, without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations and structure; its product lines, formulas and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its financial data; and its plans and strategies.
Non-Disclosure
(4) . Participant shall not engage in any acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests, including, but not limited to, violating the Company's Code of Conduct, engaging in unlawful trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or engaging in any other activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
(b) In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached any term of this Paragraph 5, in addition to any other remedies the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
(1) Cancel any unexercised Options granted hereunder; and/or
(2) Require the Participant to pay to the Company all gains realized from the exercise of any Options granted hereunder, which have been exercised within the twelve-month period immediately preceding the date at which the Participant has breached a provision of this Paragraph 5, as determined by the Company.
6. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, the number and type of shares which the Participant may purchase pursuant to the Options and the Option Exercise Price at which the Participant may purchase such shares shall be adjusted as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
7.  . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
(a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Options or (2) replaces the outstanding Options with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Options at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule that is the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule applicable to such Options, then the outstanding Options or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to subparagraph 7(c) below.
(b) If the outstanding Options granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with subparagraph 7(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms and (2) notwithstanding subparagraph 7(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Options at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that is at least equal to the excess, if any, of the value of such consideration over the Option Exercise Price for such Options.
(c) If the outstanding Options granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with subparagraph 7(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding until the Expiration Date. For purposes of this Paragraph 7, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
8. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Options are personal to the Participant and, during his or her lifetime, may be exercised only by the Participant, and (b) the Options shall not be transferable or assignable, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported transfer or assignment shall be null and void.
Nontransferability
9. . Except as provided in Paragraph 7, at any time after any Option becomes exercisable, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, to cancel such Option and to cause PepsiCo to pay to the Participant the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by such Option over the Option Exercise Price of such Option as of the date the Committee provides written notice (the "Buy Out Notice") of its intention to exercise such right. Payments of such buy out amounts pursuant to this provision shall be effected by PepsiCo as promptly as possible after the date of the Buy Out Notice and shall be made in shares of Common Stock. The number of shares shall be determined by dividing the amount of the payment to be made by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of the Buy Out Notice, and by rounding up any fractional share to a whole share. Payments of any such buy out amounts shall be made net of the minimum applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local withholding taxes, if any.
Buy-Out of Option Gains
10. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
(a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks, and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
(b) "Fair Market Value" of a share of PepsiCo Common Stock on any date shall mean an amount equal to the mean of the high and low sales prices for a share of PepsiCo Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. on the date in question (or if no sales of Common Stock were made on said Exchange on such date, on the next preceding day on which sales were made on such Exchange), rounded up to the nearest one-fourth.
(c) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
(d) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights.
(e) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee (provided that such determination does not cause the Award to be subject to Section 409A of the Code).
(f) "Retirement Date" shall mean the effective date of Retirement.
(g) "Total Disability" shall mean becoming totally and permanently disabled, as determined for purposes of the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (or in the absence of such Disability Plan being applicable to the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
11. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
12. .
Binding Effect
(a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
(b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
13. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment, nor does it impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreement's Survival
14. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
15. . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant (except as necessary to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not waive any right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement.
Amendment; Waiver
16. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
17. . The Participant will be provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan, the Options and the shares covered thereby. By signing the Award Summary, the Participant agrees that he or she has reviewed the Prospectus, and fully understands his or her rights under the Plan. Unless and until the Participant signs the Award Summary and returns the Agreement to the Company, notwithstanding the other terms of this Agreement, the Participant shall not be entitled to the proceeds of any Option exercise.
Prospectus and Award Acceptance
18. . The Options and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Board reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Options outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not be adversely affected thereby (except as necessary to comply with applicable law). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Options permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan, or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
19.  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the Option grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Options already granted under the Plan), (b) stock options are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and that the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Options pursuant to this Agreement to require options or other awards to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan, (c) upon exercise of the Options the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participant's wages, (d) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments, (e) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock options and stock and the exercise of stock options, including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations, and (f) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Options will not be subject to Code Section 409A.
Rights to Future Grants; Compliance with Law; Section 409A.
20. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Options granted hereunder unless and until such Options are exercised and the shares have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
21. . This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of North Carolina, without giving effect to conflict of laws principles.
Governing Law
22. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the parties to this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
Executive Name:
Grant Date:
AWARD DETAILS
$ $
STOCK OPTIONS AWARD
Stock Options Award Face Value:
Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
Number of Options Granted:
Vesting Dates*:
Options shall vest on
     
     
Options shall vest on
     
     
Expiration Date:
* 
Vesting and exercisability are subject to the terms and conditions of the award
I accept my PepsiCo Stock Option Retention Award as described above, subject to all the terms and conditions set forth in the attached.
Sign and date this page. Fax entire agreement to PepsiCo Executive Compensation Dept.
no later than {Date}
. Fax number {x-xxx-xxx-xxxx}.

Exhibit 10.6
These Terms and Conditions, along with the PepsiCo Restricted Stock Unit Retention Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary), by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee") authorizes retention long-term incentive awards to executives of the Company subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, pursuant to the authority granted to it in said Plan, the Committee, by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on September 19, 2003, delegated to the Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo (and his designees) the authority to make retention long-term incentive awards to other existing or newly hired executives of the Company; and
WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the restricted stock units granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the number of restricted stock units indicated on the Award Summary (the "Restricted Stock Units").
Grant
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Restricted Stock Units shall become vested as indicated on the Award Summary (the "Vesting Date") and shall be payable as soon as practicable after that date. Restricted Stock Units may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company.
Vesting
3. . Restricted Stock Units that vest and become payable shall be settled in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock with the Participant receiving one share of PepsiCo Common Stock for each vested Restricted Stock Unit. Any amount that the Company may be required to withhold upon the settlement of Restricted Stock Units and/or the payment of dividend equivalents (see Section 5 below) in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of the issuance of shares or payment of cash. Unless the Participant makes other arrangements to satisfy this withholding obligation in accordance with procedures approved by the Company in its discretion, the Company shall withhold shares to satisfy the required withholding obligation related to the settlement of Restricted Stock Units.
Payment
4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Retirement, Death, and Total Disability
(a) . Restricted Stock Units may vest and become payable only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, vesting ceases upon the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b) and 4(c), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall automatically be forfeited and canceled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates.
Termination of Employment
(b) . If the Participant's employment with the Company terminates by reason of the Participant's death or Total Disability (as defined below), then a whole number of Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability), with such number determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date, shall be payable as soon as practicable after that date, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Death or Total Disability
(c) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below), as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested on the date of such transfer and shall be payable as soon as practicable after that date.
Transfers to a Related Entity
(d) . For purposes of clarity of Paragraph 4(a) and not of limitation, in the event that prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units the Participant ceases active employment with the Company by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below), then all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall automatically be forfeited and canceled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates.
Retirement
5. . During the vesting period, the Participant shall accumulate dividend equivalents with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, which dividend equivalents shall be paid in cash (without interest) to the Participant only if and when the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest and become payable. Dividend equivalents shall equal the dividends actually paid with respect to PepsiCo Common Stock during the vesting period while (and to the extent) the Restricted Stock Units remain outstanding and unpaid.
Dividend Equivalents
6. .
Prohibited Conduct
(a) The Participant agrees that, at any time prior to the vesting and payment of the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder, and for a period of twelve months after the later of (i) the vesting and payment of the Restricted Stock Units or (ii) termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not engage in any of the following activities anywhere in the world:
(1) . Participant shall not accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or acquire any ownership interest, which involves the Participant's Participation in a business entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such business entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company.
Non-Competition
(2) . Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
Raiding Employees
(3) . Participant shall not use or disclose to anyone any confidential information regarding the Company other than as necessary in his or her position with the Company. Such confidential information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such confidential information include, without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations and structure; its product lines, formulas and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its financial data; and its plans and strategies.
Non-Disclosure
(4) . Participant shall not engage in any acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests, including, but not limited to, violating the Company's Code of Conduct, engaging in unlawful trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or engaging in any other activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
(b) In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached any term of Paragraph 6(a), in addition to any other remedies the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
(1) Cancel any unvested Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder; and/or
(2) Require the Participant to pay to the Company the value of any Restricted Stock Units (determined as of the date the restrictions on such Restricted Stock Units lapse), which have been paid within the twelve-month period immediately preceding the date as of which the Participant has breached a provision of Paragraph 6(a), as determined by the Company.
7. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, the number and type of shares to which the Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant relate shall be adjusted as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
8. . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
(a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder or (2) replaces the outstanding Restricted Stock Units with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule that is the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule applicable to such Restricted Stock Units, then the outstanding Restricted Stock Units or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to Paragraph 8(c) below.
(b) If the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph 8(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be payable immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A and (2), notwithstanding Paragraph 8(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that is at least equal to the value of the consideration that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of PepsiCo's securities relating to such awards.
(c) If the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph 8(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be payable immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A. For purposes of this Paragraph 8, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
9. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Restricted Stock Units are personal to the Participant and (b) the Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable or assignable, other than in the case of the Participant's death by will, the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
10. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
(a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks, and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
(b) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
(c) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights.
(d) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee (provided that such determination does not cause the Award to be subject to Section 409A of the Code).
(e) "Total Disability" shall mean becoming totally and permanently disabled, as determined for purposes of the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (or in the absence of such Disability Plan being applicable to the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
11. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
12. .
Binding Effect
(a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
(b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Restricted Stock Units may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
13. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment, nor does it impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreement's Survival
14. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
15. . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant (except as necessary to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not waive any right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement
Amendment; Waiver
16. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
17. . The Participant has been provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan and the Restricted Stock Units. By signing the Award Summary, the Participant agrees that he or she has reviewed the Prospectus, and fully understands his or her rights under the Plan.. Unless and until the Participant signs the Award Summary and returns the Agreement to the Company, notwithstanding the other terms of this Agreement, the Participant shall not be entitled to any Restricted Stock Unit payment.
Prospectus and Award Acceptance
18. . The Restricted Stock Units and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Board reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Restricted Stock Units outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not be adversely affected thereby (except as necessary to comply with applicable law). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Restricted Stock Units permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
19.  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the Restricted Stock Unit grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Restricted Stock Units already granted under the Plan), (b) restricted stock units are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Agreement to require restricted stock units or other awards to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan, (c) upon vesting of Restricted Stock Units the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participant's wages, (d) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments, (e) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations, and (f) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Restricted Stock Units will not be subject to Code Section 409A. If notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Restricted Stock Units become subject to Code Section 409A, then the specified time of payment of the Restricted Stock Units for purposes of Code Section 409A shall be the calendar year in which the short-term deferral period expires with respect to the Restricted Stock Unit (or by such later time as may be permitted by Code Section 409A under the circumstances).
Rights to Future Grants; Compliance with Law; Section 409A.
20. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder unless and until such Restricted Stock Units have been settled in shares of Common Stock that have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
21. . This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of North Carolina, without giving effect to conflict of laws principles.
Governing Law
22. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the parties to this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
Participant Name:
Grant Date:
$
Grant Price:
AWARD DETAILS
$ $ $
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD
US Dollar Value Retention Award:
Restricted Stock Unit Award Value:
Grant Date:
Grant Price:
Number of Restricted Stock Units Granted:
Vesting Date(s)*:
* Vesting is subject to the terms and conditions of the award.
I accept my PepsiCo Restricted Stock Unit Retention Award as described above, subject to all the terms and conditions set forth in the attached.
Sign and date this page. Fax entire agreement to PepsiCo Executive Compensation Dept.
no later than {
Date}
. Fax number {x-xxx-xxx-xxxx}.


