FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20070208102451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written Communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Item 2.02, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 is a copy of the press release issued by PepsiCo, Inc., dated February 8, 2007, reporting PepsiCo, Inc.'s financial results for the 16 and 52 weeks ended December 30, 2006.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits
     99.1 Press Release issued by PepsiCo, Inc., dated February 8, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
PURCHASE, N.Y., Feb. 8  PepsiCo reported continued strong performance in the fourth quarter of 2006. Reported net revenue increased 3% in the quarter. Excluding the impact of an extra reporting week in the prior year, net revenue increased over 7%.
Earnings of $1.06 per share grew 63% versus $0.65 per share reported in the fourth quarter of 2005. Excluding the impacts of the extra reporting week in 2005 and previously announced tax items and restructuring actions in 2006 and 2005, the Company generated earnings of $0.72 per share in 2006, an increase of 11%.
PepsiCo President and CEO Indra Nooyi said, "We are pleased with our performance for the quarter and the full year. Our international business performed particularly well, delivering double-digit revenue and operating profit growth, and Frito-Lay North America delivered robust sales and profit results. The performance demonstrated the power of PepsiCo's portfolio  balancing opportunities and challenges across our businesses to deliver consistently strong financial results."
Ms. Nooyi continued, "We also made good progress on our key strategic initiatives: providing greater choices to consumers in the area of healthier snacks and beverages; strengthening our international presence; and advancing our business process transformation project, including our SAP systems implementation."
For the full year, reported net revenue was up 8% and, excluding the impact of the extra reporting week in 2005, net revenue increased more than 9%.
Operating margins improved compared to the prior year as pricing and lower corporate unallocated costs more than offset the impact of higher input costs. The impact of lower advertising and marketing expense was offset by higher trade spending.
Earnings per share of $3.34 for the full year 2006 included tax benefits of $0.37 per share, related principally to the Internal Revenue Service's examination of prior years' tax returns, and a charge of $0.03 per share related to Frito-Lay North America's manufacturing network consolidation. Reported results for 2005 included the net impact of a $0.27 per share charge related to the Company's repatriation of international cash, the extra reporting week and restructuring actions. Excluding all these items for 2006 and 2005, the Company's earnings were $3.00 per share in 2006, an increase of 13%.
 
Items Affecting Diluted EPS Comparability
 
The fourth quarter of 2005 includes an extra week of results; because the Company's fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of every December, every five or six years an extra week of results is reported in the fourth quarter. The Company recorded a pretax charge of $83 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 related to cost-reduction actions, principally headcount reductions. Of that amount, approximately $70 million was reported within Division operating results with the balance reported in corporate unallocated costs.
Extra reporting week in 2005 and restructuring actions affected comparability of Division results.
The Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $67 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 related to the previously announced action to consolidate the Frito-Lay North America manufacturing network from 34 sites to 32 sites.
The following table presents the 2006 Division growth rates including the impacts of the extra reporting week and the restructuring actions.
Summary of Division Results (includes impacts of extra reporting week in 2005 and restructuring actions)
 
The following table presents the 2006 Division growth rates excluding the impacts of the extra week and the restructuring charges, which the Company believes are more indicative of the Company's ongoing results. Further information on the impacts of the extra week and the restructuring actions is included in the attached financial schedules.
 
Summary of Division Results (excludes impacts of extra reporting week in 2005 and restructuring actions)
 
DISCUSSION OF FOURTH QUARTER DIVISION OPERATING RESULTS
The impacts on Division operating results of the extra reporting week in 2005 and of the restructuring actions are summarized on the accompanying schedule A-12. The following discussion of Division operating results excludes the impacts of these items.
Net revenue increased 7% in the fourth quarter, driven by broad-based volume growth and effective net pricing. Net revenue growth was led by gains in trademark Doritos, Sunchips, Tostitos, Lay's and Cheetos. Operating profit grew 8% benefiting principally from the net revenue gains.
Frito-Lay North America (FLNA) had strong revenue and profit performance.
Bottler case sales increased slightly in the quarter, driven by mid-single-digit growth in non-carbonated beverages and substantially offset by a low-single-digit decline in carbonated soft drinks (CSDs).
Non-carbonated beverages drove PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) volume growth.
Within non-carbonated beverages, waters (including enhanced waters), teas and energy drinks increased strong double digits, offset somewhat by declines in Gatorade and Tropicana Pure Premium. Declines in Gatorade were largely attributable to difficult comparisons to the prior-year quarter when volumes grew more than 30%, cooler weather in the early part of the quarter, and higher trade inventories at the end of the third quarter as compared to the prior year when retail inventories were low due to capacity shortages. Tropicana Pure Premium volumes were largely impacted by the effect of increased retail prices on consumer demand.
Within CSDs, low-single-digit declines in trademarks Pepsi and Mountain Dew were partially offset by high-single-digit growth in trademark Sierra Mist. Regular CSDs in total declined low-single-digits, offset in part by a low-single digit increase in diet CSDs.
Increased trade support contributed to the decline in revenue. Operating profit was pressured by increased Gatorade supply chain costs associated with the start up of new manufacturing capacity. Tropicana Pure Premium price increases offset increased orange
 
juice raw material costs, and the impact of lower advertising and marketing expense was partly offset by higher trade spending.
Snack volume growth of 9% was led by mid-single-digit growth at Gamesa in Mexico and strong double-digit growth in Russia, Turkey and Egypt. Beverage volume growth of 7% was led by double-digit gains in the Middle East and Argentina, and high-single-digit growth in China and Brazil. Carbonated soft drinks grew at a mid-single-digit rate and the non-carbonated beverages growth rate was in the high teens.
PepsiCo International (PI) posted strong gains in both snacks and beverages.
PI Regional Volume Growth (excludes extra reporting week)
Net revenue grew 16% driven by the broad-based volume gains and effective net pricing. Foreign currency contributed 2 percentage points of growth and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures contributed 3 percentage points of growth.
Operating profit grew 26% driven by net revenue gains, and offset partially by higher energy and raw material costs. Foreign currency contributed 3 percentage points of growth and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures reduced growth by one percentage point.
Volume declined slightly in the quarter, as gains in ready-to-eat cereals and oatmeal were more than offset by single-digit declines in side dishes and Aunt Jemima syrup and mix. Net revenue declined in line with volume. Operating profit increased 5% as the impact of the net revenue decline and higher input costs were more than offset by lower selling, general and administrative costs.
Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) profits grew 5%.
Corporate unallocated expenses declined by $39 million in the fourth quarter, driven by the absence in the current year of a $12 million charge related to the 2005 restructuring action, and the net favorable impact of certain other corporate items.
DISCUSSION OF FOURTH QUARTER CORPORATE ITEMS
In the fourth quarter, bottling equity income increased by $4 million and included a gain of $21 million related to a favorable tax audit settlement at the Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG) in the current year and an $8 million benefit from the extra reporting week in the prior year. Excluding these items, bottling equity income declined by $8 million in the quarter. Gains on sales of shares in PBG in the quarter were comparable to the fourth quarter of 2005.
 
The Company reported a net tax benefit of $144 million in the fourth quarter, which included non-cash benefits of approximately $600 million, substantially all of which related to the Internal Revenue Service's examination of the Company's consolidated income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. A reconciliation of the Company's reported tax rate to its tax rate excluding these items is included in the attached schedule A-10.
2007 GUIDANCE
For 2007, the Company expects mid-single-digit volume and net revenue growth, with revenue growth outpacing volume growth, and EPS of at least $3.30 per share. Cash provided by operating activities in 2007 is expected to be approximately $7.0 billion, and assumes a pension contribution in 2007 of up to $150 million.
Company expects continued strong performance in 2007, consistent with long-term targets.
The Company anticipates net capital spending of approximately $2.6 billion and share repurchases of approximately $3.3 billion, and intends to sell approximately 9.5 million shares of PBG common stock in 2007.
PepsiCo is one of the world's largest food and beverage companies with annual revenues of more than $35 billion. Its principal businesses include Frito-Lay snacks, Pepsi-Cola beverages, Gatorade sports drinks, Tropicana juices and Quaker foods. Its portfolio includes 17 brands that generate $1 billion or more each in annual retail sales.
About PepsiCo
This release contains statements concerning PepsiCo's expectations for future performance. Any such forward-looking statements are inherently speculative and are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. As such, they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results and performance may be significantly different from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Please see the Company's filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a discussion of specific risks that may affect performance.
Cautionary Statement
Conference call: At 11 a.m. (Eastern Time) today, the Company will host a conference call with investors to discuss fourth quarter 2006 results and the outlook for 2007. For details visit the Company's website at www.pepsico.com.
Miscellaneous Disclosures
Reconciliation: In discussing financial results and guidance, the Company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of any such non-GAAP measures to reported financial statements can be found under "PepsiCo Financial Press Releases" on the Company's website in the "Investors" section.
 
As discussed in its third quarter 10-Q, the Company adopted SFAS 158, (SFAS 158) on December 30, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 158 reduced other assets by $2.0 billion, total liabilities by $0.4 billion and total common shareholders' equity by $1.6 billion. The adoption had no impact on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132 (R)
"Effective net pricing" refers to the combined impact of mix and price. "Net pricing" refers to the combined impact of list price changes, discounts and allowances. "Pricing" refers to the impact of list price changes.
Bottler Volume: Volume for products sold by the Company's bottlers is reported by the Company on a monthly basis, with the fourth quarter comprising September through December.
Sales of PBG shares are made pursuant to a 10b5-1 trading plan.
Acquisition impacts to PI regional volume growth: For the quarter, acquisitions contributed 7 points to Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) snacks and 2.5 points to total snacks. For the year, acquisitions contributed 6 points to EMEA snacks, 1 point to Asia Pacific snacks, 2 points to total snacks and 1 point to EMEA beverages.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded non-cash tax benefits of $602 million ("2006 Tax Adjustments"), substantially all of which related to the Internal Revenue Service's (IRS's) examination of our consolidated income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2006, PBG also recorded non-cash tax benefits in connection with the IRS's examination of certain of their consolidated income tax returns. We recorded our share of these tax benefits in bottling equity income in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges in conjunction with consolidating the manufacturing network at Frito Lay from 34 sites to 32 sites, and rationalizing other assets, to increase manufacturing productivity and supply chain efficiencies.
In the third quarter of 2005, we recognized a tax charge related to our intention to repatriate $7.5 billion of international earnings under the provisions of the AJCA. This tax charge was adjusted slightly in the fourth quarter of 2005. In addition, we recorded restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2005 to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. In 2005, we had an extra week of results as our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an extra week of results every five or six years.
The financial measures listed below are not measures defined by GAAP. However, we believe investors should consider these measures as they are more indicative of our ongoing performance. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly and full year results:
Net Revenue Reconciliation
 
Operating Profit Reconciliation
Operating Profit Growth Reconciliation
Bottling Equity Income Reconciliation
 
 
 
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation (Quarter Ended 12/31/05)
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation (Year Ended 12/31/05)
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation (Quarter Ended 12/30/06)
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation (Year Ended 12/30/06)
 
Net Income Reconciliation
 
 


