FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20071105125824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written Communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c) Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02 is a copy of the press release issued by PepsiCo, Inc. (the "Company"), dated November 5, 2007. Among the changes described in the press release is the appointment of Massimo Fasanella d'Amore, 51, to the role of Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Americas Beverages. Mr. d'Amore was formerly Executive Vice President, Commercial for PepsiCo International, a position he assumed in November 2005. Prior to that, he served as President, Latin America Region for PepsiCo Beverages International from February 2002 until November 2005 and as the Company's Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development from August 2000 until February 2002. Mr. d'Amore began his career with the Company in 1995 as Vice President, Marketing for Pepsi-Cola International and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Pepsi-Cola International in 1998. Before joining the Company, he was with Procter & Gamble for 15 years in various international operations, marketing and general management positions.
(b) The Company also announced today that Dawn E. Hudson is stepping down from her position as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pepsi-Cola North America and PepsiCo Foodservice effective immediately.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this item 8.01 is a copy of the press release issued by the Company, dated November 5, 2007.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits
     99.1    Press Release issued by PepsiCo, Inc., dated November 5, 2007.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
PepsiCo Unveils New Organizational Structure,
Names CEOs of Three Principal Operating Units
PURCHASE, NY, Nov. 5, 2007  PepsiCo announced today a strategic realignment of its organizational structure to position the company for continued strong growth and more fully leverage the talents of its senior leaders.
"Given PepsiCo's robust growth in recent years, we are approaching a size which we can better manage as three units instead of two," said Indra Nooyi, chairman and chief executive officer. "Creating units that span North American and international markets, as well as developed and developing markets, allows us to better share best practices among our North America and international businesses, while providing valuable development opportunities for our senior executives."
PepsiCo, which previously comprised PepsiCo North America and PepsiCo International, will now be organized into three major operating units:
On a proforma basis through the first three quarters of this year, PAF accounted for about 45% of PepsiCo's revenues, PAB for about 30% and PI for about 25%.
As a part of the organizational changes, Hugh Johnston, currently EVP-Operations for PepsiCo and an 18-year PepsiCo veteran, will become President of Pepsi-Cola North America. He succeeds Dawn Hudson, currently CEO and president of Pepsi-Cola North America, who has decided to pursue career opportunities outside the company.
 
These management changes are effective immediately. PepsiCo expects to complete the transition of all responsibilities and changes in management reporting as of the beginning of our fiscal year 2008.
"I am confident this organizational structure will help us deliver strong top-line performance and consistent double-digit profit growth in the years ahead," Nooyi said. "As CEO  and as a shareholder  I feel very fortunate to have a team of gifted leaders, with whom I've had the opportunity to work very closely:
"Let me also take this opportunity to thank Dawn Hudson for her extraordinary contributions to PepsiCo over the last 11 years," said Nooyi. "She is a remarkably talented and passionate leader, and I wish her the very best in her future endeavors."
PepsiCo (NYSE: PEP) is one of the world's largest food and beverage companies, with 2006 annual revenues of more than $35 billion. The company employs approximately 168,000 people worldwide, and its products are sold in approximately 200 countries. Its principal businesses include: Frito-Lay snacks, Pepsi-Cola beverages, Gatorade sports drinks, Tropicana juices and Quaker foods. The PepsiCo portfolio includes 17 brands that generate $1 billion or more each in annual retail sales. PepsiCo's commitment to sustainable growth, defined as , is focused on generating
Performance with Purpose
 
healthy financial returns while giving back to communities the company serves. This includes meeting consumer needs for a spectrum of convenient foods and beverages, reducing the company's impact on the environment through water, energy and packaging initiatives, and supporting its employees through a diverse and inclusive culture that recruits and retains world-class talent. PepsiCo is listed on the Dow Jones North America Sustainability Index and Dow Jones World Sustainability Index. For more information, please visit
www.pepsico.com


