FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20080805182416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On August 52008, PepsiCo, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a U.S. $2.5 billion Euro Medium Term Note Programme (the "Programme"), following the expiration of its existing programme. Under the Programme, the Company may issue unsecured notes (the "Notes") with such terms, including currency, rate and maturity, as may be agreed by the Company and the purchasers of such Notes at the time of sale. The Notes will be issued pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Agency Agreement dated August 52008 by and among the Company, The Bank of New York and The Bank of New York (Luxembourg) S.A. (the "Agency Agreement") and the Amended and Restated Deed of Covenant dated August 52008 made by the Company (the "Deed of Covenant"). In connection therewith, the Company also entered into the Amended and Restated Programme Agreement dated August 52008 with the dealers (the "Dealers") named therein (the "Programme Agreement"). Copies of the Programme Agreement, the Agency Agreement and the Deed of Covenant are included in this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 1.1, 4.1, and 4.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Programme does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Agency Agreement, the Programme Agreement and the Deed of Covenant.
,
,
,
,
At this time, the Company has not issued any Notes pursuant to the Programme. Proceeds from any issuance of Notes may be used for general corporate purposes, except as otherwise specified in the applicable final terms.
Notes issued under the Programme will be issued pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), will not be registered under the Act, and may not be offered or sold in the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, a U.S. person absent registration or an applicable exemption from the requirements of the Act.
In the ordinary course of their respective businesses, the Dealers and their affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in commercial banking and/or investment banking transactions with the Company and its affiliates.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 1.1
is made on 5 August 2008
THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED PROGRAMME AGREEMENT
:
Between
as follows:
It is hereby agreed
:
Whereas
(A) The Issuer and the Dealers entered into an amended and restated programme agreement dated 21 July 2006 as amended by a Supplemental Agreement dated 31 July 2007 (the ) in respect of a U.S.$2,500,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme of the Issuer;
Programme Agreement
(B) The parties hereto have agreed to make certain modifications to the Programme Agreement; and
(C) This Agreement amends and restates the Programme Agreement. Any Notes issued under the Programme on or after the date hereof shall be issued pursuant to this Agreement. This does not affect any Notes issued under the Issuer's Euro Medium Term Note Programme prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page 1
 
1.
Definitions and Interpretation
1.1 All terms with initial capitals used herein, other than those defined in section 1.2 below, shall have the meanings given to them in the Agency Agreement dated 5 August 2008 or in the Terms and Conditions of the Notes.
1.2 For the purposes of this Agreement, except where the context requires otherwise:
means the agreement of even date herewith as amended, supplemented or restated from time to time between the Issuer, the Agent and the other paying agents referred to therein under which the Agent is appointed as issuing agent, principal paying agent and agent bank for the purposes of the Programme;
Agency Agreement
means The Bank of New York Mellon as Agent under the Agency Agreement and any successor agent appointed by the Issuer in accordance with the Agency Agreement;
Agent
means, in respect of any Note, the date on which agreement is reached for the issue of such Note as contemplated in Clause 2 which, in the case of Notes issued on a syndicated basis or otherwise in relation to which a Subscription Agreement is entered into, shall be the date upon which the relevant Subscription Agreement is signed by or on behalf of all the parties;
Agreement Date
means Morgan Stanley and any company appointed to the position of arranger for the Programme or in respect of any particular issue of Notes under the Programme and references in this Agreement to the shall be references to the relevant Arranger;
Arranger
Arranger
means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme;
Clearstream, Luxembourg
means:
Confirmation Letter
means each of BBVA, Banc of America, Citigroup, HSBC, JPMorgan, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and UBS and any New Dealer and excludes any entity whose appointment has been terminated pursuant to Clause 10 and notice of termination of whose appointment has been given to the Agent by the Issuer, and references in this Agreement to the shall, in relation to any Note, be references to the Dealer or Dealers with whom the Issuer has agreed the issue and purchase of such Note;
Dealer
relevant Dealer
means:
Dealer Accession Letter
Page 2
 
means the deed poll dated 5 August 2008, substantially in the form set out in Schedule 4 to the Agency Agreement, executed as a deed by the Issuer in favour of certain accountholders with Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg and any other agreed clearing system;
Deed of Covenant
means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V.;
Euroclear
means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
Exchange Act
means the final terms issued in relation to each Tranche of Notes (substantially in the form of Annexe C to the Procedures Memorandum) and giving details of that Tranche and, in relation to any particular Tranche of Notes, applicable Final Terms means the Final Terms applicable to that Tranche;
Final Terms
means the United Kingdom Financial Services and Markets Act 2000;
FSMA
means the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole;
Group
means the list of documents set out in Appendix A to this Agreement;
Initial Documentation List
means in relation to any Tranche of Notes the person defined as Manager in any applicable Subscription Agreement or when only one Dealer signs such Subscription Agreement, such Dealer;
Lead Manager
means, in relation to Notes which are, or are to be, listed on a Stock Exchange other than the London Stock Exchange, such listing agent as the Issuer may from time to time appoint for the purposes of liaising with such Stock Exchange;
Listing Agent
means the regulated market of the London Stock Exchange plc or such other body to which its functions have been transferred;
London Stock Exchange
means any entity appointed as an additional Dealer for the duration of the Programme or for a particular Tranche of Notes, whether pursuant to Clause 11 or pursuant to a Subscription Agreement;
New Dealer
means a global Note which is intended to be eligible collateral for Eurosystem monetary policy and intra-day credit operations and where the applicable Final Terms specify the Notes are in NGN form;
NGN
means a note issued or to be issued by the Issuer pursuant to this Agreement, which Note may be represented by a Global Note or be in definitive form;
Note
Page 3
 
means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.;
NYSE
means the Official List of the UKLA;
Official List
means the Operating and Administrative Procedures Memorandum as amended or varied from time to time (in respect of any Tranche) by agreement between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer with the approval in writing of the Agent;
Procedures Memorandum
means the Euro Medium Term Note Programme contemplated by this Agreement;
Programme
means the Prospectus prepared in connection with the Programme and constituting a base prospectus for the purposes of Article 5.4 of the Prospectus Directive as revised, supplemented or amended from time to time by the Issuer in accordance with subclause 3.4 including any documents which are from time to time incorporated in the Prospectus by reference, except that:
Prospectus
means Directive 2003/71/EC;
Prospectus Directive
means Commission Regulation (EC) No 809/2004 implementing the Prospectus Directive;
Prospectus Regulation
means, in the case of Notes which are to be listed on the London Stock Exchange, the prospectus rules made under the FSMA;
Prospectus Rules
means each Dealer, each of its representatives, directors, officers, employees and each of its affiliates and agents and each person who controls such Dealer (within the meaning of section 15 of the Securities Act and section 20 of the Exchange Act);
Relevant Party
means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended;
Securities Act
means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto;
Securities Commission
means the London Stock Exchange, or any other or further stock exchange(s) within the European Economic Area on which any Notes may from time to time be listed or admitted to trading, and references in this Agreement to the shall, in relation to any Notes, be references to the Stock Exchange(s) on which such Notes are from time to time, or are intended to be, listed or admitted to trading;
Stock Exchange
relevant Stock Exchange(s)
Page 4
 
means an agreement (by whatever name called) in or substantially in the form set out in Appendix E hereto or such other form as may be agreed between the Issuer and the Lead Manager which agreement shall be supplemental to this Agreement; and
Subscription Agreement
means the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority in its capacity as competent authority under the FSMA.
UKLA
1.3 Terms and expressions defined in the Agency Agreement, the Conditions and/or the Final Terms applicable to any Notes and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the same meanings in this Agreement, except where the context otherwise requires.
1.4 In this Agreement, clause headings are inserted for convenience and ease of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
1.5 All references in this Agreement to the provisions of any statute shall be deemed to be references to that statute as from time to time modified, extended, amended or re-enacted.
1.6 All references in this Agreement to an agreement, instrument or other document (including this Agreement, the Agency Agreement, the Deed of Covenant, any Series of Notes and any Conditions appertaining thereto) shall be construed as a reference to that agreement, instrument or document as the same may be amended, modified, varied, supplemented, replaced or novated from time to time including, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, this Agreement as supplemented by any Subscription Agreement.
1.7 Words denoting the singular number only shall include the plural number also and words denoting the masculine gender only shall include the feminine gender also; and words denoting persons only shall include firms and corporations and
vice versa;
vice versa.
1.8 All references in this Agreement to Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg shall, wherever the context so permits, be deemed to include reference to any additional or alternative clearing system approved by the Issuer and the Agent.
1.9 In the case of NGNs, such additional or alternative clearing system must also be authorised to hold such Notes as eligible collateral for Eurosystem monetary policy and intra-day credit operations.
1.10 References in this Agreement to a Directive include any relevant implementing measure of each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented such Directive.
2.
Agreements to Issue and Purchase Notes
2.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Issuer may from time to time agree with any Dealer to issue, and any Dealer may agree to purchase, Notes.
Page 5
 
2.2 On each occasion upon which the Issuer and any Dealer agree on the terms of the issue and purchase of one or more Notes by such Dealer:
2.3 Unless otherwise agreed between the Issuer and the relevant Dealers, where more than one Dealer has agreed with the Issuer to purchase a particular Tranche of Notes pursuant to this Clause, the obligations of such Dealers so to purchase the Notes shall be joint and several.
2.4 Where the Issuer agrees with two or more Dealers to issue, and such Dealers agree to purchase, Notes on a syndicated basis, the Issuer shall enter into a Subscription Agreement with such Dealers. The Issuer may also enter into a Subscription Agreement with one Dealer only.
2.5 The procedures which the parties intend should apply for the purposes of issues not to be subscribed pursuant to a Subscription Agreement are set out in Part 1 of the Procedures Memorandum, as varied from time to time by agreement between the Issuer, the relevant Dealer and the Agent. The procedures which the parties intend should apply for the purposes of issues to be subscribed pursuant to a Subscription Agreement are set out in Part 2 of the Procedures Memorandum, as varied from time to time by agreement between the Issuer, the relevant Lead Manager and the Agent.
2.6 Each issue of Notes denominated in a currency in respect of which particular laws, guidelines, regulations, restrictions or reporting requirements apply (including on the date hereof, without limitation, Yen and Sterling) will only be issued in circumstances which comply with such laws, guidelines, regulations, restrictions or reporting requirements from time to time. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing:
Page 6
 
The restrictions set out in Clauses (a) to (b) above in relation to the currencies mentioned in such Clauses shall only apply insofar as they are consistent with the relevant regulations of the appropriate regulatory bodies or necessary to comply with applicable laws, guidelines, regulations, restrictions or reporting requirements from time to time. On each occasion when any such regulatory body amends or introduces any relevant regulation, the restrictions above shall be deemed to be amended accordingly.
3.
Conditions of Issue; Updating of Legal Opinions
First issue
3.1 Before the Issuer reaches its first agreement, on or after the date of this Agreement, with any Dealer for the issue and purchase of Notes, each Dealer shall have received, and found satisfactory (in its reasonable opinion) all of the documents and confirmations described in the Initial Documentation List. Any Dealer must notify the Arranger and the Issuer within seven business days of receipt of the documents and confirmations described in the Initial Documentation List if it considers any to be unsatisfactory in its reasonable opinion.
3.2 The obligations of a Dealer under any agreement for the issue and purchase of Notes made pursuant to Clause 2 are conditional upon:
Page 7
 
Page 8
 
In the event that any of the foregoing conditions is not satisfied, the relevant Dealer shall be entitled (but not bound) by notice to the Issuer to be released and discharged from its obligations under the agreement reached under Clause 2.
Waiver
3.3 Any Dealer, on behalf of itself only, may by notice in writing to the Issuer waive any of the conditions precedent contained in Clauses 3.1 and 3.2 (save for the condition precedent contained in Clause 3.2(c)) in so far as they relate to an issue of Notes to that Dealer.
Page 9
 
Updating of legal opinions
3.4 (a) If following the first anniversary of the date of this Agreement (and on each subsequent anniversary during the term of the Programme), the Programme has not been terminated by the Issuer pursuant to Clause 10 below, the Issuer will procure (at its own expense) that a further legal opinion or further legal opinions from legal advisers in the United States of America (which legal advisers may be employees of the Issuer) and/or England, as the case may be, in substantially the same form and content as those delivered according to the Initial Documentation List (any such opinion a and collectively ), is or are delivered, at the expense of the Issuer, to the Dealers.
Legal Opinion
Legal Opinions
Determination of amounts outstanding
4.
Representations and Warranties
4.1 As at the date of this Agreement the Issuer hereby warrants to and agrees with the Dealers and each of them as follows:
Page 10
 
Page 11
 
Page 12
 
4.2 With regard to each issue of Notes, the Issuer shall be deemed to repeat the warranties and agreements contained in Clause 4.1 as at the Agreement Date for such Notes (any agreement on such Agreement Date being deemed to have been made on the basis of, and in reliance on, such warranties and agreements) and as at the Issue Date of such Notes.
4.3 The warranties and agreements contained in this Clause shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding the actual or constructive knowledge of any Dealer with respect to any of the matters referred to in the representations and warranties set out above, any investigation by or on behalf of the Dealers or completion of the subscription and issue of any Notes.
5.
Undertakings of the Issuer
Notification of material developments
5.1 The Issuer shall promptly after becoming aware of the occurrence thereof notify each Dealer of any Event of Default or any condition, event or act which, with the giving of notice and/or the lapse of time (after an issue of Notes) would constitute an Event of Default or any breach of the representations and warranties or undertakings contained in this Agreement, the Agency Agreement or the Deed of Covenant or any of them.
5.2 If, following the time of an agreement under Clause 2 and before the issue of the relevant Notes, the Issuer becomes aware that the conditions specified in Clause 3.2 will not be satisfied in relation to that issue, the Issuer shall forthwith notify the relevant Dealer to this effect giving full details thereof. In such circumstances, the relevant Dealer shall be entitled (but not bound) by notice to the Issuer to be released and discharged from its obligations under the agreement reached under Clause 2. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the Issuer shall from time to time promptly furnish to each Dealer copies of all periodic reports filed by the Issuer pursuant to the Exchange Act.
Updating of Prospectus
5.3 (a) On or before each anniversary of the date of this Agreement, the Issuer shall update or amend the Prospectus (following consultation with the Arranger who will consult with the Dealers) by the publication of a new Prospectus or a supplement to the Prospectus, in each case in a form satisfactory to the Dealers.
Page 13
 
Listing
5.4 The Issuer confirms that it (1) has made or caused to be made an application (at the expense of the Issuer) for Notes issued under the Programme to be admitted to the Official List of the UKLA and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange or on such other Stock Exchange in the European Economic Area as the Issuer and the Dealers may agree, and (2) will use all reasonable endeavours to obtain and maintain such listing. Upon agreement to issue Notes which are to be listed being reached under Clause 2 above the Issuer will use all reasonable endeavours to obtain and, whilst any such Notes are outstanding, maintain such listing.
5.5 If, in relation to any issue of Notes, it is agreed between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) to list such Notes on another Stock Exchange, the Issuer will use all best endeavours to obtain and maintain the listing of such Notes on such Stock Exchange.
5.6 The Issuer shall comply with any undertakings given by it from time to time to the relevant Stock Exchange in connection with any Notes listed on such Stock Exchange or the listing thereof and, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, shall furnish or procure to be furnished to the relevant Stock Exchange all such information as the relevant Stock Exchange may require in connection with the listing on such Stock Exchange of any Notes. For the avoidance of doubt, where the Issuer has obtained the listing of Notes on a regulated market in the European Economic Area, the undertaking extends to maintaining that listing or, if this is not possible, to obtaining listing of the relevant Notes on another European Economic Area regulated market.
5.7 If any Notes cease to be listed on the relevant Stock Exchange, the Issuer shall use its best endeavours promptly to list such Notes on a stock exchange to be agreed between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer (which, in any event, shall be any described in paragraph (a)(1) of Rule 902 under Regulation S made pursuant to the Securities Act).
Designated Offshore Securities Market
Agency Agreement and Deed of Covenant
5.8 The Issuer undertakes that it will not without prior notification to the Dealers, terminate the Agency Agreement or the Deed of Covenant or effect or permit to become effective any amendment to any such agreement or deed which, in the case of an amendment, would materially and adversely affect the interests of any holder of
Page 14
 
Notes issued before the date of such amendment, and the Issuer will promptly notify each of the Dealers of any termination of, or amendment to, the Agency Agreement or the Deed of Covenant and of any change in the Agent or paying agent(s) under the Agency Agreement.
Lawful compliance
5.9 The Issuer will at all times ensure that all necessary action is taken and all necessary conditions are fulfilled (including, without limitation, the obtaining of all necessary consents) so that it may lawfully comply with its obligations under any Notes, this Agreement, the Agency Agreement and the Deed of Covenant and, further, so that it may comply with any applicable laws, regulations and guidance from time to time promulgated by any governmental and regulatory authorities relevant in the context of the issue of Notes.
Authorised representative
5.10 The Issuer will notify the Dealers promptly in writing if any of the persons named in the list referred to in paragraph 3 of the Initial Documentation List ceases to be authorised to take action on behalf of the Issuer or if any additional person becomes so authorised together, in the case of an additional authorised person, with evidence satisfactory to the Dealers that such person has been so authorised.
Auditors' comfort letters
5.11 The Issuer will:
deliver, at the expense of the Issuer, to the Dealers a comfort letter or comfort letters from the independent registered public accounting firm of the Issuer, in such form and with such content as the Dealers (or any of them) may reasonably request, provided that no such comfort letter or comfort letters will be delivered under subparagraph (b) above if the only material amendment, update, revision or supplement concerned is the publication or issue of any annual or interim financial statements of the Issuer and the Group (save where such revision, supplement or amendment occurs in accordance with Clause 5.3).
No other issues
5.12 During the period commencing on an Agreement Date in respect of any listed Notes and ending on the Issue Date with respect to those Notes, the Issuer will not,
Page 15
 
without the prior consent of the relevant Dealer(s), issue or agree to issue any other listed notes, bonds or other debt securities of whatsoever nature (other than Notes to be issued under the Programme to the same Dealer(s)) where such notes, bonds or other debt securities would have the same maturity and currency as the Notes to be issued on the relevant Issue Date, provided, that the foregoing restriction shall not apply to issuances or agreements to issue notes, bonds or other debt securities of the Issuer, issued or to be issued under any U.S. shelf registration programme of the Issuer, under any Japanese shelf registration of the Issuer, or under any commercial paper programme.
Information on Noteholders' meetings
5.13 The Issuer will, at the same time as it is despatched, furnish the Dealers with a copy of every notice of a meeting of the holders of the Notes (or any of them) and which is despatched at the instigation of the Issuer and will notify the Dealers immediately upon its becoming aware that a meeting of the holders of the Notes (or any of them) has been convened by holders of such Notes.
Rating
5.14 The Issuer undertakes promptly to notify the Dealers of any change in the rating given by Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and/or such other rating agency as notified to the Dealers for any of its debt or upon it becoming aware that such rating is listed on Creditwatch' or other similar publication of formal review by the relevant rating agency.
Offers to the public in France
5.15 The Issuer undertakes that it will not offer any Notes, directly or indirectly, to the public in France.
Commercial paper
5.16 In respect of any Tranche of Notes which has a maturity of less than one year, the Issuer will issue such Notes only if the following conditions apply (or the Notes can otherwise be issued without contravention of section 19 of the FSMA):
6.
Indemnity
6.1 The Issuer undertakes with each Dealer that if that Dealer or any Relevant Party relating to the Dealer incurs any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, costs or
Page 16
 
expenses (including without limitation, legal fees, costs and expenses) (a ) arising out of in connection with, or based upon, or caused by:
Loss
the Issuer shall pay to the Dealer on demand an amount equal to such Loss, save to the extent that the Loss arises out of or in connection with a violation by such Dealer of the provisions of Clause 8 hereof (except to the extent that such violation occurs as a direct result of a violation by the Issuer of its obligations under Clause 5.2 hereof). This undertaking to make payment will be in addition to any liability which the Issuer may otherwise have under this Agreement. No Dealer shall have any duty or obligation, whether as fiduciary or trustee, for any Relevant Party or otherwise, to recover any such payment or to account to any person for any amounts paid to it under this Clause 6.1.
6.2 In case any claims, actions, proceedings, (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted involving any Relevant Party in respect of which payment may be sought pursuant to Clause 6.1, the relevant Dealer will promptly notify the Issuer in writing and the Issuer, upon request of such Dealer will retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Dealer to represent the Relevant Party and any others the Issuer may designate in such proceedings and will pay the reasonable fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceedings. In any such proceedings, any Relevant Party will have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel will be borne by the Relevant Party unless:
6.3 It is understood that the Issuer will not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm for all such Relevant Party and that all such reasonable fees and expenses will be reimbursed as they are incurred.
6.4 The Issuer will not be liable for any settlement of any proceedings effected without its written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), but if settled with such consent or if such consent is unreasonably withheld or
Page 17
 
delayed, or if there shall be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Issuer agrees to pay the Dealer an amount equal to any Loss by reason of such settlement or judgment.
6.5 The immediately preceding sentence notwithstanding, if at any time a Dealer shall have requested the Issuer for reasonable fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by the first sentence of Clause 6.1, the Issuer agrees that it will be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if:
6.6 The Issuer shall not, without the prior written consent of the relevant Dealer (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceedings in respect of which any Relevant Party is or could have been a party and payment could have been sought hereunder by such Dealer, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Relevant Party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceedings.
6.7 Any provision of Clause 6.2 to the contrary notwithstanding, no failure by a Relevant Party to notify the Issuer as required hereunder will relieve the Issuer from any liability it may have had to a Relevant Party otherwise than under this Clause.
6.8 The remedies provided for in this Clause are not exclusive and will not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to a Relevant Party at law or in equity.
6.9 A Relevant Party who is not a party to this Agreement (a ) may enforce the terms of this Clause subject to and in accordance with this Clause and Clause 18 and any other relevant term of this Agreement and the provision of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999.
Third Party
6.10 As conditions precedent to bringing any proceedings to enforce the terms of this Clause, a Third Party which is (or was at the relevant time) a representative, director, officer, employee, affiliate, agent or person who controls a Dealer must:
A Third Party which has given notice to the Issuer agreeing to be bound by Clause 18 shall be deemed to be included in the category of persons for whose benefit the Issuer has agreed to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts specified therein.
6.11 The parties to this Agreement do not require the consent of any person not a party to this Agreement to rescind or vary this Agreement at any time.
Page 18
 
7.
Authority to Distribute Documents
Subject to Clause 8 below, the Issuer hereby authorises each of the Dealers on behalf of the Issuer to provide copies of and make statements consistent with the contents of the Prospectus and such additional information as the Issuer shall provide to the Dealers or approve for the Dealers to use in connection with the Programme or such other information as is in the public domain to actual and potential purchasers of Notes.
8.
Dealers' Undertakings
8.1 Each Dealer agrees to comply with the restrictions and agreements set out in Appendix B hereto unless otherwise agreed with the Issuer. Each Dealer's obligations under this Clause are several.
8.2 Each Dealer severally undertakes with the Issuer that if the Issuer, its directors, officers, employees and agents and each person who controls the Issuer (within the meaning of section 15 of the Securities Act) incurs any Loss arising out of, or based upon, or caused by any breach by such Dealer of any of its obligations or agreements contained in Clause 8.1, such Dealer shall pay to the Issuer on demand an amount equal to such Loss, save to the extent that the Loss arises out of or in connection with a violation by the Issuer of the provisions of Clause 5.2; provided that no Dealer shall be liable for any Loss arising from the sale of Notes to any person believed in good faith by such Dealer, on reasonable grounds after making all reasonable investigations, to be a person to whom Notes could lawfully be sold in compliance with the provisions of Appendix B hereto. This undertaking to make payment will be in addition to any liability which any Dealer may otherwise have under this Agreement. The provisions of Clause 6.2 shall apply, , to any claim for payment made pursuant to this Clause.
mutatis mutandis
8.3 The remedies provided for in this Clause are not exclusive and will not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any indemnified party at law or in equity.
9.
Fees, Expenses and Stamp Duties
9.1 The Issuer undertakes that it will:
Page 19
 
9.2 The Issuer also undertakes that it will:
9.3 Each Dealer represents that it will reimburse the Issuer for its costs and expenses reasonably and properly incurred in protecting or enforcing any of its rights under this Agreement against such Dealer.
10.
Termination of Appointment of Dealers
The Issuer or (as to itself) a Dealer may terminate the arrangements described in this Agreement by giving not less than 30 days' written notice to the other parties hereto. The Issuer may terminate the appointment of a Dealer or Dealers by giving not less than 30 days' written notice to such Dealer or Dealers (with a copy promptly thereafter to all the other Dealers and the Agent). Termination (including assignment
Page 20
 
or transfer in accordance with Clause 15.2) shall not affect any rights or obligations (including but not limited to those arising under Clauses 6, 8 and/or 9) which have accrued at the time of termination (including assignment or transfer in accordance with Clause 15.2) or which accrue to any act or omission or alleged act or omission which occurred prior to such time.
11.
Appointment of New Dealers
11.1 Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the Issuer from appointing one or more New Dealers for the duration of the Programme or, with regard to the issue of a particular Tranche of Notes, the Issuer appointing one or more New Dealers for the purposes of that Tranche, in either case upon the terms of this Agreement and provided that, unless such appointment is effected pursuant to a Subscription Agreement:
whereupon such New Dealer shall, subject to the terms of the relevant Dealer Accession Letter and the relevant Confirmation Letter, become a party to this Agreement, vested with all authority, rights, powers, duties and obligations of a Dealer as if originally named as a Dealer hereunder provided further that, except in the case of the appointment of a New Dealer for the duration of the Programme, following the issue of the Temporary Global Note in respect of the relevant Tranche, the relevant New Dealer shall have no further such authority, rights, powers, duties or obligations except such as may have accrued or been incurred prior to, or in connection with, the issue of such Temporary Global Note and the Notes represented thereby.
11.2 The Issuer shall promptly notify the other Dealers of any appointment of a New Dealer for the duration of the Programme by supplying to such parties a copy of any Dealer Accession Letter and Confirmation Letter. No such notice shall be required to be given in the case of an appointment of a New Dealer for a particular issue of Notes. Notice shall be given promptly in all cases by the Issuer to the Agent.
12.
Increase in the Aggregate Nominal Amount of the Programme
12.1 From time to time the Issuer may wish to increase the aggregate nominal amount of the Notes that may be issued under the Programme. In such circumstances, the Issuer may give notification of such an increase (subject as set out in Clause 12.2) by delivering to the Dealers the letter set out in Appendix D hereto. Upon such notice being given to the Dealers, all references in this Agreement, the Agency Agreement or any other agreement or deed in relation to the Programme to a Euro Medium Term Note Programme of a certain nominal amount, shall be and shall be deemed to be
Page 21
 
references to a Euro Medium Term Note Programme of the increased nominal amount.
12.2 Notwithstanding Clause 12.1, the right of the Issuer to increase the aggregate nominal amount of the Programme shall be subject to each Dealer having received all the documents and confirmations described in the Initial Documentation List (with such changes as may be relevant, with reference to the circumstances at the time of the proposed increase as are agreed between the Issuer and the Arranger), the production of a supplementary Prospectus by the Issuer and any further or other documents required by the relevant Stock Exchange(s) for the purpose of listing the Notes to be issued under the Programme on the relevant Stock Exchange(s). The Arranger shall circulate to the Dealers all the documents and confirmations described in the Initial Documentation List.
12.3 The Issuer shall give notice to the Agent of any increase in the aggregate nominal amount of the Programme.
13.
Counterparts
This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
14.
Communications
14.1 All communications shall be by telex, fax or letter delivered by hand or (but only where specifically provided in the Procedures Memorandum) by telephone. Each communication shall be made to the relevant party at the telex number, fax number or address or telephone number and, in the case of a communication by telex, fax or letter, marked for the attention of, or (in the case of a communication by telephone) made to, the person(s) or department from time to time specified in writing by that party to the other for the purpose. The initial telephone number, telex number, fax number of and person(s) or department so specified by, each party are set out on the signature pages hereof.
14.2 A communication shall be deemed received (if by telex) when a confirmed answerback is received at the end of the transmission, (if by fax) when an acknowledgement of receipt is received, (if by telephone) when made or (if by letter) when delivered, in each case in the manner required by this clause. Every communication shall be irrevocable save in respect of any manifest error therein.
15.
Benefit of Agreement
15.1 This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure for the benefit of the Issuer and each Dealer and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
15.2 The Dealers may only assign or transfer their rights or obligations under this Agreement with the prior written consent of the Issuer except for an assignment of all of a Dealer's rights and obligations hereunder in whatever form such Dealer determines may be appropriate to a partnership, corporation, trust or other organisation in whatever form that may succeed to all or substantially all of such
Page 22
 
Dealer's assets and business and that assumes such obligations by contract, operation of law or otherwise. If the Dealers assign their rights or transfer their obligations as provided in this Clause, the relevant assignee or transferee shall be treated as if it were a party to this Agreement with effect from the date on which such assignment or transfer takes effect; provided that any transfer shall only become effective when the Issuer has received an undertaking from the transferee to be bound by this Agreement and to perform the obligations transferred to it. Such assignment or transfer shall not affect any rights or obligations (including but not limited to, those arising under Clauses 6, 8 and 9) which have accrued at the time of assignment or transfer or which accrue thereafter to the Dealers who have assigned or transferred in relation to any act or omission or alleged act or omission which occurred prior to such assignment or transfer.
16.
Currency Indemnity
16.1 If, under any applicable law and whether pursuant to a judgment being made or registered against the Issuer or in the liquidation, insolvency or analogous process of the Issuer or for any other reason, any payment under or in connection with this Agreement is made or falls to be satisfied in a currency (the ) other than that in which the relevant payment is expressed to be due (the ) under this Agreement, then, to the extent that the payment (when converted into the required currency at the rate of exchange on the date of payment or, if it is not practicable for the relevant Dealer to purchase the required currency with the other currency on the date of payment, at the rate of exchange as soon thereafter as it is practicable for it to do so or, in the case of a liquidation, insolvency or analogous process, at the rate of exchange on the latest date permitted by applicable law for the determination of liabilities in such liquidation, insolvency or analogous process) actually received by the relevant Dealer falls short of the amount due under the terms of this Agreement, the Issuer undertakes that it shall, as a separate and independent obligation, indemnify and hold harmless each Dealer against the amount of such shortfall. For the purpose of this clause means the rate at which the relevant Dealer is able on the relevant date to purchase the required currency with the other currency and shall take into account any premium and other costs of exchange.
other currency
required currency
rate of exchange
17.
Stabilisation
17.1 In connection with the issue of any Tranche of Notes, the Dealer or Dealers (if any) named as the stabilising manager(s) (or persons acting on behalf of any stabilising manager(s)) in the applicable Final Terms may over-allot Notes or effect transactions with a view to supporting the market price of the Notes at a level higher than that which might otherwise prevail. However, there is no assurance that the stabilising manager(s) (or persons acting on behalf of a stabilising manager) will undertake stabilisation action. Any stabilisation action may begin on or after the date on which adequate public disclosure of the terms of the offer of the relevant Tranche of Notes is made and, if begun, may be ended at any time, but it must end no later than the earlier of 30 days after the issue date of the relevant Tranche of Notes and 60 days after the date of the allotment of the relevant Tranche of Notes. Any stabilisation action or over allotment must be conducted in accordance with all applicable laws and rates.
Page 23
 
17.2 The Issuer confirms that it has been informed of the existence of the informational guidance published by the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority in relation to stabilisation.
18.
Governing Law and Jurisdiction
18.1 This Agreement and every agreement for the issue and purchase of Notes as referred to in Clause 2 shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of England.
18.2 The Issuer hereby irrevocably agrees for the exclusive benefit of the Dealers that the courts of England are to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement and that accordingly any suit, action or proceedings (together referred to as ) arising out of or in connection with this Agreement may be brought in such courts. The Issuer hereby irrevocably waives any objection which it may have to the laying of the venue of any Proceedings in any such courts and any claim that any such Proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum and hereby further irrevocably agrees that a judgment in any Proceedings brought in the English courts shall be conclusive and binding upon it and may be enforced in the courts of any other jurisdiction. Nothing contained herein shall limit any right to take Proceedings against the Issuer in any other court of competent jurisdiction, nor shall the taking of Proceedings in one or more jurisdictions preclude the taking of Proceedings in any other jurisdiction, whether concurrently or not. The Issuer hereby appoints PepsiCo International Limited at its registered office for the time being at the date hereof 3 Kew Road, Richmond, Surrey, TW9 2QL, England (Attention: Division Counsel) as its agent for service of process and agrees that, in the event of PepsiCo International Limited ceasing so to act or ceasing to be registered in England, it will appoint another person as its agent for service of process in England in respect of any Proceedings. Nothing herein shall affect the right to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. The Issuer hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives with respect to this Agreement any right to claim immunity from jurisdiction or execution and any similar defence and irrevocably and unconditionally consents to the giving of any relief or the issue of any process, including without limitation, the making, enforcement or execution against any property whatsoever (irrespective of its use or intended use) of any order or judgment made or given in connection with any Proceedings.
Proceedings
19.
Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999
Save as provided in Clause 6, a person who is not a party to this Agreement shall have no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any of its terms.
Page 24
 
1. A certified copy of the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Issuer.
2. A certified copy of all resolutions and other authorisations required to be passed or given, and evidence of any other action required to be taken, on behalf of the Issuer:
3. A certified list of the names, titles and specimen signatures of the persons authorised on behalf of the Issuer in accordance with paragraph above.
2(c)
4. Certified copies of any other governmental or other consents (including, but not limited to, confirmation that the Bank of England has been notified of the establishment of the Programme) required for the Issuer to issue Notes under the Programme, to execute and deliver this Agreement, the Agency Agreement and the Deed of Covenant and to fulfil its obligations under this Agreement the Agency Agreement, the Notes and the Deed of Covenant.
5. Prior to the sale of any Notes, confirmation that one or more master Temporary Global Notes and master Permanent Global Notes (from which copies can be made for each particular issue of Notes under the Programme), duly executed by a person or persons authorised to take action on behalf of the Issuer as specified in paragraph 2(b) above, have been delivered to the Agent.
6. Legal opinions addressed to each of the Dealers dated on or after the date of this Agreement, in such form and with such content as the Dealers may reasonably require, from:
Page 25
 
7. A conformed copy of each of this Agreement, the Agency Agreement and the Deed of Covenant and confirmation that executed copies of such documents have been delivered, in the case of the Agency Agreement, to the Agent and the paying agents appointed thereunder and, in the case of the Deed of Covenant, to a common depositary for Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg.
8. A printed final version of the Prospectus.
9. Confirmation from Morgan Stanley that the UKLA will list Notes to be issued under the Programme and that the London Stock Exchange will admit such Notes to trading.
10. A comfort letter from the independent registered public accounting firm of the Issuer, in such form and with such content as the Dealers may reasonably request.
11. Confirmation of rating of Notes issued under the Programme by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's Investors Service.
12. Letter from PepsiCo International Limited confirming its acceptance as agent for service of process of the Issuer.
13. Prior to the sale of any Notes, Effectuation Agreement (where the Notes are to be issued in new global note form).
14. Prior to the sale of any Notes, Issuer/ICSD Agreement (where the Notes are to be issued in new global note form).
Page 26
 
United States
1.1 The Notes have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act, and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act or pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Each Dealer represents and agrees that it has offered, sold and delivered any Notes, and will offer, sell and deliver any Notes (1) as part of their distribution at any time and (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the completion of the distribution of all Notes of the Tranche of which such Notes are a part, as determined and notified as provided below, only in accordance with Rule 903 of Regulation S under the Securities Act. Accordingly, each Dealer further represents and agrees that it, its affiliates and any persons acting on its or their behalf have not engaged and will not engage in any directed selling efforts with respect to any Note, and it and they have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S under the Securities Act. Each Dealer who has purchased Notes of a Tranche hereunder (or in the case of a sale of a Tranche of Notes issued to or through more than one Dealer, each of such Dealers as to the Notes of such Tranche purchased by or through it or, in the case of a syndicated issue, the relevant Lead Manager) shall determine and notify to the Agent the completion of the distribution of the Notes of such Tranche. On the basis of such notification or notifications, the Agent agrees to notify such Dealer/Lead Manager of the end of the distribution compliance period with respect to such Tranche. Each Dealer also agrees that, at or prior to confirmation of sale of Notes, it will have sent to each distributor, dealer or person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration that purchases Notes from it during the distribution compliance period a confirmation or notice to substantially the following effect:
"The Securities covered hereby have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ) and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the completion of the distribution of the Securities as determined and notified by the Agent for the Securities to [name of Dealer(s)/Lead Manager], except in either case in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meanings given to them by Regulation S under the Securities Act.".
Securities Act
Terms used in this Clause 1.1 have the meanings given to them by Regulation S.
1.2 In addition (unless the applicable Final Terms specifies otherwise):
Page 27
 
Each Dealer agrees that it will obtain from any distributor (within the meaning of U.S. Treas. Reg. Section 1.163-5(c)(i)(D)(4)(ii)) that during the restricted period purchases any Notes from it pursuant to a written contract with such Dealer (except a distributor that is one of its affiliates or is another Dealer), for the benefit of the Issuer and each other Dealer, the representation contained in, and such distributor's agreement to comply with, the provisions of sub-clause (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this paragraph insofar as they relate to the D rules, as if such distributor were a dealer hereunder.
Terms used in this Clause 1.2 have the meanings given to them by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, including the D Rules. Whether or not an offer, sale or delivery is treated as made within the United States or its possessions or to a United States person will depend upon application of the D Rules.
1.3 Each issue of Indexed Notes or Dual Currency Notes shall be subject to such additional U.S. selling restrictions as the Issuer and the relevant Dealer may agree as a term of the issue and purchase of such Notes, which additional selling restrictions shall be set out in the Final Terms. Each relevant Dealer agrees that it shall offer, sell and deliver such Notes only in compliance with such additional U.S. selling restrictions.
Page 28
 
Public Offer Selling Restriction under the Prospectus Directive
2. In relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a ), each Dealer represents and agrees that with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State (the ) it has not made and will not make an offer of Notes which are the subject of the offering contemplated by this prospectus as contemplated by the Final Terms in relation thereto to the public in that Relevant Member State, except that it may, with effect from and including the Relevant Implementation Date, make an offer of Notes to the public in that Relevant Member State:
Relevant Member State
Relevant Implementation Date
provided that no such offer of Notes referred to in (a) to (e) above shall require the Issuer or any Dealers to publish a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive or supplement a prospectus pursuant to Article 16 of the Prospectus Directive.
For the purposes of this provision, the expression an "offer of Notes to the public" in relation to any Notes in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the Notes to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe the
Page 29
 
Notes, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression Prospectus Directive means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State.
Selling Restrictions Addressing Additional United Kingdom Securities Laws
3. Each Dealer represents and agrees that:
Japan
4. The Notes have not been and will not be registered under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended, the ) and disclosure under the FIEL has not been and will not be made with respect to the Notes. Each Dealer agrees that it will not offer, sell, resell or otherwise transfer, any Notes nor any interest therein, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the benefit of, any resident of Japan (which term as used herein means any person resident in Japan, including any corporation or other entity organised under the laws of Japan), or to others for re-offering, resale, or otherwise transferring, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the benefit of, a resident of Japan except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of, and otherwise in compliance with, the FIEL and any other applicable laws, regulations and guidelines promulgated by the relevant Japanese governmental and regulatory authorities and in effect at the relevant time.
FIEL
General
5. Each Dealer agrees that it will comply with all applicable securities laws and regulations in force in any jurisdiction in which it purchases, offers, sells or delivers
Page 30
 
Notes or possesses or distributes the Prospectus and will obtain any consent, approval or permission required by it for the purchase, offer, sale or delivery by it of Notes under the laws and regulations in force in any jurisdiction to which it is subject or in which it makes such purchases, offers, sales or deliveries and neither the Issuer nor any other Dealer shall have any responsibility therefor.
Neither the Issuer nor any of the Dealers represents that Notes may at any time lawfully be sold in compliance with any applicable registration or other requirements in any jurisdiction, or pursuant to any exemption available thereunder, or assumes any responsibility for facilitating such sale.
With regard to each Tranche, the relevant Dealer(s) will be required to comply with such other additional restrictions as the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) shall agree and as shall be set out in the applicable Final Terms.
Page 31
 
[Date]
To:      PepsiCo, Inc.
Dear Sirs
PepsiCo, Inc. (the
Issuer
) Euro Medium Term Note Programme
We refer to the Amended and Restated Programme Agreement dated 5 August 2008 entered into in respect of the above Euro Medium Term Note Programme and made between the Issuer and the Dealers party thereto (which agreement, as amended from time to time, is herein referred to as the ).
Programme Agreement
Conditions Precedent
We confirm that we are in receipt of the documents referenced below:
and have found them to our satisfaction or (in the case of documents referred to in (b) above) have waived such production.
For the purposes of the Programme Agreement our notice details are as follows:
(insert name, address, telephone, facsimile, telex (+ answerback) and attention).
In consideration of the appointment by the Issuer of us as a Dealer under the Programme Agreement we hereby undertake, for the benefit of the Issuer and each of the other Dealers, that we will perform and comply with all the duties and obligations expressed to be assumed by a Dealer under the Programme Agreement.
This letter is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Name of New Dealer]
By:
cc:     The Bank of New York Mellon (Agent)
Page 32
 
[Date]
To:     [Name and address of New Dealer]
Dear Sirs,
PepsiCo, Inc. Euro Medium Term Note Programme
We refer to the Amended and Restated Programme Agreement dated 5 August 2008 (such agreement, as amended from time to time, the ) entered into in respect of the above Euro Medium Term Note Programme and hereby acknowledge receipt of your Dealer Accession Letter to us dated [     ].
Programme Agreement
In accordance with Clause 11.1(b) of the Programme Agreement we hereby confirm that, with effect from the date hereof, you shall become a party to the Programme Agreement, vested with all the authority, rights, powers, duties and obligations of a Dealer as if originally named as Dealer under the Programme Agreement.
Yours faithfully,
For:      PepsiCo, Inc.
By:
cc:      The Bank of New York Mellon (Agent)
The Dealers
Page 33
 
[Date]
To:     PepsiCo, Inc.
Dear Sirs,
PepsiCo, Inc. (the
Issuer
) Euro Medium Term Note Programme [Details of the issue] (the
Notes
)
We refer to the Amended and Restated Programme Agreement dated 5 August 2008 and made between the Issuer and the Dealers party thereto (which agreement, as amended from time to time, is herein referred to as the ).
Programme Agreement
Conditions Precedent
We confirm that we are in receipt of the documents referenced below:
and have found them to our satisfaction or (in the case of the documents referred to in (b) above) have waived such production.
For the purposes of the Programme Agreement our notice details are as follows:
(insert name, address, telephone, facsimile, telex (+ answerback) and attention).
In consideration of the Issuer appointing us as a Dealer in respect of the issue of the Notes under the Programme Agreement we hereby undertake, for the benefit of the Issuer and each of the other Dealers that in relation to the issue of the Notes we will perform and comply with all the duties and obligations expressed to be assumed by a Dealer under the Programme Agreement.
This letter is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law.
Yours faithfully
For:      [Name of New Dealer]
By:
cc:      The Bank of New York Mellon (Agent)
Page 34
 
[Date]
To:     [Name and address of New Dealer]
Dear Sirs,
PepsiCo, Inc. Euro Medium Term Note Programme [Details of issue] (the
Notes
)
We refer to the Amended and Restated Programme Agreement dated 5 August 2008 (such agreement, as amended from time to time, the ) and hereby acknowledge receipt of your Dealer Accession Letter to us dated [     ].
Programme Agreement
In accordance with Clause 11.1(b) of the Programme Agreement we hereby confirm that, with effect from the date hereof in respect of the issue of the Notes, you shall become a party to the Programme Agreement, vested with all the authority, rights, powers, duties and obligations of a Dealer in relation to the issue of the Notes as if originally named as Dealer under the Programme Agreement provided that following the issue of the temporary global note representing the Notes you shall have no further such authority, rights, powers, duties and obligations except such as may have accrued or been incurred prior to or in connection with the issue of the temporary global note.
Yours faithfully,
For:       PepsiCo, Inc.
By:
c.c.:      The Bank of New York Mellon (Agent)
Page 35
 
[Date]
Dear Sirs,
PepsiCo, Inc. Euro Medium Term Note Programme
We hereby notify you, pursuant to Clause 12 of the Programme Agreement, that the aggregate nominal amount of the above Programme shall be increased to U.S.$[     ] from [insert date] whereupon all references in the Programme Agreement and the Agency Agreement will be deemed amended accordingly. We understand that this increase is subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set out in Clause 12 of the Programme Agreement.
Terms used in this letter have the meanings given to them in the Programme Agreement.
Yours faithfully,
For:      PepsiCo, Inc.
By:
cc:       The Bank of New York Mellon (Agent)
Page 36
 
[DATE]
To:      [              ]
         (the )
Managers
c/o      [              ]
         (the )
Lead Manager
cc:      The Bank of New York Mellon (Agent)
Dear Sirs,
PepsiCo, Inc. Euro Medium Term Note Programme (the
Programme
)
PepsiCo, Inc. (the ) proposes to issue [DESCRIPTION OF ISSUE] (the ) pursuant to the Programme. The terms of the issue shall be as set out in the form of Final Terms attached to this Agreement as Annex A.
Issuer
Notes
This Agreement is supplemental to the Amended and Restated Programme Agreement (the ) dated 5 August 2008 made between the Issuer and the Dealers party thereto, as amended from time to time. All terms with initial capitals used herein without definition have the meanings given to them in the Programme Agreement.
Programme Agreement
We wish to record the arrangements agreed between us in relation to the issue:
Conditions Precedent
1. This Agreement appoints each Manager which is not a party to the Programme Agreement (each a ) as a New Dealer in accordance with the provisions of Clause 11 of the Programme Agreement for the purposes of the issue of the Notes. [The]/[Each] New Dealer undertakes for the benefit of the Issuer and each of the other Dealers, that in relation to the issue of the Notes it will perform and comply with all the duties and obligations expressed to be assumed by a Dealer under the Programme Agreement. The Lead Manager confirms that it is in receipt of the documents referenced below:
1
New Dealer
 
Page 37
 
and has confirmed with [each of] the New Dealer[s] that it has found them to be satisfactory or (in the case of any or all of the documents referred to in (b)) has waived such production.
For the purposes of the Programme Agreement the details of the Lead Manager for service of notices are as follows:
[insert name, address, telephone, facsimile, telex (+ answerback) and attention].
In consideration of the Issuer appointing the New Dealer[s] as [a] Dealer[s] in respect of the Notes under the Programme Agreement, [each/the] New Dealer hereby undertakes, for the benefit of the Issuer and each of the other Dealers, that, in relation to the issue of the Notes, it will perform and comply with all the duties and obligations expressed to be assumed by a Dealer under the Programme Agreement, a copy of which it acknowledges it has received from the Lead Manager. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Programme Agreement, [each of] the New Dealer[s] shall be vested with all authority, rights, powers, duties and obligations of a Dealer in relation to the issue of the Notes as if originally named as a Dealer under the Programme Agreement provided that following the Issue Date of the Notes [each of] the New Dealer[s] shall have no further such authority, rights, powers, duties or obligations except such as may have accrued or been incurred prior to, or in connection with, the issue of the Notes.
2. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Programme Agreement and this Agreement the Issuer hereby agrees to issue the Notes and the Managers jointly and severally agree to purchase the Notes at a purchase price of [ ] per cent. of the principal amount of the Notes (the ), being the issue price of [ ] per cent., less a selling concession of [ ] per cent. of such principal amount and a management and underwriting fee of [ ] per cent. of such principal amount.
Purchase Price
3. The settlement procedures set out in Part 2 of Annexe A to the Procedures Memorandum shall apply as if set out in this Agreement provided that, for the purposes of this Agreement:
Page 38
 
4. The Issuer shall bear and pay (together with any applicable value added or similar tax) all costs and expenses incurred in or in connection with the printing of the Notes, this Agreement and the Final Terms prepared in connection with the issue of the Notes, the listing of the Notes on the London Stock Exchange and making initial delivery of the Notes. In addition, the Issuer agrees to pay to the Lead Manager [     ] in respect of reasonable legal, travelling, telex, facsimile, telephone, postage and advertising expenses incurred and to be incurred by the Managers in connection with the preparation and management of the issue and distribution of the Notes which sum may be deducted from the Purchase Price as provided in Clause [3] hereof.]
5. The obligation of the Managers to purchase the Notes is conditional upon:
If any of the foregoing conditions is not satisfied on or before the Payment Instruction Date, this Agreement shall terminate on such date and the parties hereto shall be
Page 39
 
under no further liability arising out of this Agreement (except for the liability of the Issuer in relation to expenses as provided in Clause [4] and except for any liability arising before or in relation to such termination), provided that the Lead Manager, on behalf of the Managers, may in its discretion waive any of the aforesaid conditions or any part of them.
6. The Lead Manager, on behalf of the Managers, may, by notice to the Issuer, terminate this Agreement if at any time prior to payment of the net purchase money to the Issuer there has been (i) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the NYSE or the London Stock Exchange, (ii) a declaration of a general moratorium on commercial banking activities in New York by either Federal or New York State authorities or in the principal financial centre of the Specified Currency or Currencies applicable to the Notes by the relevant regulatory authorities, or (iii) any outbreak or material escalation of hostilities or other national or international calamity or crisis (the events described in the foregoing clauses (i) to (iii) the ), the effect of any of which Market Events shall have made it impracticable, in the professional judgment of the Lead Manager, to offer or sell the Notes, such judgment to be based on relevant market conditions, including, without limitation, the impact of such Market Event on debt securities having substantially similar characteristics as the Notes and, upon such notice being given, the parties to this Agreement shall (except for the liability of the Issuer in relation to expenses as provided in Clause [4] of this Agreement and except for any liability arising before or in relation to such termination) be released and discharged from their respective obligations under this Agreement.
Market Events
7. Clauses 18 and 19 of the Programme Agreement shall also apply to this Agreement as if expressly incorporated herein.
8. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement and any party may enter into this Agreement by executing a counterpart.
Please confirm that this letter correctly sets out the arrangements agreed between us.
Yours faithfully,
For:      PepsiCo, Inc.
By:
We agree to the foregoing.
For:     [NAMES OF MANAGERS]
By:
Page 40
 
Page 41
 
PepsiCo, Inc. []
address
[], []
Place of Execution
Date
To:      []             []
Name of Common Safekeeper
Address of Common Safekeeper
Dear Sirs,
With respect to each global note representing securities issued under the above-captioned programme received from time to time by [] (the ) from ourselves or any agent acting on our behalf (each a Global Note), we hereby authorise and instruct the CSK to:
Name of Common Safekeeper
CSK
We expressly authorise the CSK to sub-delegate the effectuation authorisation set out in paragraph 1 above to any other party acting for such CSK.
Very truly yours,
On behalf of PepsiCo, Inc.
By: []
Signature of Authorised Officer of Issuer or Agent with Authorisation of Issuer
Page 42
 
 
Page 43
 
AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO THIS
                    
                    
, OF 200[   ], AMONG:
PepsiCo, Inc. [] (the ); and
incorporation and registered office details
Issuer
Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. of 1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, B-1210 Brussels, Belgium and Clearstream Banking S.A. of 42 Avenue J.F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg (each a ).
Relevant Clearing System
Subject: Acceptance of: $2,500,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme []
Programme Number
This agreement sets forth the understanding of the parties with respect to securities to be issued in New Global Note form under the above-captioned programme (the ) that the Issuer may request be made eligible for settlement with Euroclear Bank SA/NV and Clearstream Banking SA (the ).
Securities
ICSDs
In order to allow the ICSDs to accept the Securities as eligible for settlement with the ICSDs and to properly service the Securities, the Issuer hereby represents and warrants to the ICSDs that in all matters relating to the Securities it will, and it will require any agent appointed by it to, comply with the requirements for the Securities set out herein. For the purposes of this agreement, means a global note which refers to the books and records of the ICSDs to determine the total remaining indebtedness of the issuer as determined from time to time.
New Global Note
Page 44
 
For the purposes of clarification, the ICSDs confirm that the records of the Relevant Clearing System referred to in the New Global Note representing the Securities are the records that each ICSD holds for its customers which reflect the amount of each such customer's interest in the Securities.
The Issuer's obligations under this Agreement will be discharged if it includes provisions substantially to the effect set out in the paragraph above in any agreement
Page 45
 
it has with its agents. The Issuer agrees that the ICSDs may rely on communication from its agents as if such communication was received directly from-the Issuer.
On behalf of PepsiCo, Inc.:
[]
Name of Authorised Signatory
Page 46
 
Austria Belgium Canada Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark England & Wales Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Italy Japan Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Netherlands New York or [] Norway Poland Portugal Scotland Slovakia Slovenia Spain Switzerland Sweden
Other State of the United States
Page 47
 
1. The execution and delivery of and performance by PepsiCo of its obligations under the Programme Agreement, the Agency Agreement (as defined in the Schedule hereto), the Deed of Covenant (as defined in the Schedule hereto) and the Notes (when issued) will not contravene any provision of the Restated Charter or By-Laws of PepsiCo, or of any agreement or other instrument binding upon PepsiCo or any of its subsidiaries that is material to PepsiCo and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, or, to my knowledge, of any judgment, order, or decree of any governmental body, agency, or court having jurisdiction over PepsiCo or any of its subsidiaries, in each of the foregoing cases except as would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of PepsiCo and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole..
2. To my knowledge, there is no legal or governmental proceeding pending or threatened to which PepsiCo or any of its significant subsidiaries is a party, or by which any of the properties of PepsiCo or its significant subsidiaries is bound, which would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of PepsiCo and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Page 48
 
I am of the opinion that the statements in the Prospectus (as defined in the Schedule hereto) under the caption "TaxationUnited States Taxation of "United States Alien" Holders" are, at the date of issue of the Prospectus, correct in all material respects.
Page 49
 
(1) The obligations of the Issuer under the Documents constitute, and the obligations of the Issuer under the Global Notes, the Definitive Notes and the Coupons (once such Global Notes or Definitive Notes (with Coupons attached thereto) have been duly completed, executed and delivered by the Issuer and authenticated as therein provided) will constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of the Issuer;
(2) No consents, licences, approvals or authorisations of, or registrations or filings with, any governmental or other authority or agency in the United Kingdom are required by law by the Issuer in relation to the initial issue of the Securities or any of the acts or transactions contemplated by the Programme Agreement in relation to the Notes except that:
     (a) the Prospectus must be approved by the Financial Services Authority under Part VI of the FSMA for Notes to be issued under the Programme (which we understand has been obtained), the approved Prospectus must be filed with the Financial Services Authority and any Final Terms must be filed with the Financial Services Authority pursuant to the Prospectus Rules in respect of each issue of Notes to be admitted to official listing on the London Stock Exchange;
     (b) there must be submitted to the Financial Services Authority and to the London Stock Exchange all other documents required to be submitted to either entity;
     (c) any person in the United Kingdom (including any United Kingdom based paying agent) who pays interest to, or receives interest for the benefit of, an individual may be required by HM Revenue & Customs to provide certain information (which may include the name and address of the beneficial owner of the interest) to HM Revenue & Customs;
     (d) any person in the United Kingdom (including any United Kingdom based paying agent) who pays amounts payable on redemption of Securities which are deeply discounted securities for the purposes of the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005 to, or receives such amounts for the benefit of, an individual may be required by HM Revenue & Customs to provide certain information (which may include the name and address of the beneficial owner of the amount payable on redemption) to HM Revenue & Customs although HM Revenue & Customs published practice indicates that HM Revenue & Customs will not exercise its power to require this information where such amounts are paid on or before 5 April, 2008;
     (e) under the listing rules of the Financial Services Authority:
(A) a supplementary prospectus will be required in respect of any issue of Securities to be admitted to official listing on the London Stock Exchange which causes the aggregate principal amount of Securities issued to exceed the amount of the Programme; and
Page 50
 
(B) a new prospectus will be required in respect of any issue of Securities which takes place more than 12 months after the date of the publication of the Prospectus and, pursuant to section 87G of the FSMA, a supplementary prospectus may be required in certain circumstances as provided in that section;
     (f) a consent, licence, approval, authorisation, registration or filing may be required by any authorised person under any rules or regulations under the FSMA which are applicable to it;
     (g) under the Reporting of Savings Income Information Regulations 2003, as amended (the 2003 Regulations), a paying agent (as defined in the 2003 Regulations) established in the United Kingdom who makes a payment of savings income to an individual or a residual entity (as defined in the 2003 Regulations) established in another EU member state or one of certain other non EU countries and territories will be required to obtain, verify, record and then provide to HM Revenue & Customs certain information about the payee and the payment,
(3) Payments of principal and interest in respect of any of the Notes made in the United Kingdom are not subject to withholding taxes or duties in the United Kingdom;
(4) No ad valorem stamp duty, stamp duty reserve tax or issue, documentary, registration or other similar tax imposed by any government department or other taxing authority of or in the United Kingdom is payable in connection with the initial issue or delivery of the Programme Documents;
(5) the choice of English law to govern the Issue Documents will be recognised and upheld by the English courts.
Page 51
 
1. PepsiCo is a corporation in existence under the laws of the State of North Carolina.
2. PepsiCo has the corporate power to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Principal Agreements and the Notes (when issued) and to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus (as defined in Schedule I hereto).
3. PepsiCo has authorized the execution, delivery and performance of the Principal Agreements and the Notes (when issued) by all necessary corporate action..
4. Each of the Principal Agreements has been duly executed by PepsiCo.
5. Assuming the validity of such action under English law, under the laws of the State of North Carolina, the appointment by PepsiCo in the Principal Agreements and the Notes (when issued) of its agent for the service of process in England is a valid appointment and no further act is required to render such appointment effective and such agent is bound to act in accordance with such appointment.
6. To our knowledge, the execution and delivery by PepsiCo of the Principal Agreements and the consummation of the transactions provided for thereby will not violate any applicable law, statute, rule or regulation of the State of North Carolina that is binding on PepsiCo or any of its assets.
Page 52
 
1. The choice of English law as the proper law to govern the Principal Agreements and the Notes (when issued) should be upheld as a valid choice of law by the state courts of the State of New York and the U.S. federal courts located in the State of New York and applied by such courts in proceedings relating to the obligations of the parties under such Principal Agreements, unless the application of English law would contravene the public policy of the State of New York or U.S. federal law. We are not aware of any public policy of the State of New York or of U.S. federal law that would be impugned by the enforcement of the express provisions of the Principal Agreements. For the purposes of this paragraph, we have assumed that consent to the choice of law provision in such Principal Agreements was not obtained from any party to such Principal Agreements by improper means or mistake, that the legal questions at issue in any suit or proceeding with regard to such Principal Agreements would be governed by principles that had been considered and decided under English law before initiation of such suit or proceeding, and would thus not be questions of first impression for a English court, and that a English court would itself enforce the choice of law provision contained in such Principal Agreements.
2. Except as stated below, a money judgment obtained in England and enforcing the provisions of the Principal Agreements and the Notes (when issued) will be enforced by courts of the State of New York and by U.S. federal courts located in the State of New York if the judgment rendered by the English court is final, conclusive and enforceable in England. To be conclusive, a judgment must be rendered under a system that provides impartial tribunals and procedures that observe the requirements of due process of law, and by tribunals that have jurisdiction over the parties and subject matter of the litigation in which judgment was rendered. The courts of the State of New York or a U.S. federal court sitting in the State of New York may refuse to recognize even a final, conclusive and enforceable judgment rendered by an English court on any of the following further discretionary grounds: (1) the defendant did not receive notice of the proceedings in sufficient time to enable the defendant to defend, (2) the judgment was obtained by fraud, (3) the cause of action underlying the judgment is repugnant to public policy in the State of New York or under U.S. federal law, (4) the judgment conflicts with another final and conclusive judgment, (5) the English proceedings were in contravention of an agreement between the parties to settle the dispute otherwise, and (6) jurisdiction was based only on personal service and the English court was a seriously inconvenient forum.
3. We express no opinion as to the applicability (and, if applicable, the effect) of Section 548 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, any applicable fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer or fraudulent obligation law or any comparable provision of law to the questions addressed above or on the conclusions expressed with respect thereto.
4. We express no view as to whether a U.S. federal court sitting in the State of New York or a court of the State of New York would (1) dismiss a suit, action or
Page 53
 
proceeding arising under the Principal Agreements, or brought in order to enforce a judgment under the Principal Agreements, on the ground that such court lacks personal or subject matter jurisdiction or such court is an improper venue or inconvenient forum or (2) render or enforce a judgment in a currency other than United States dollars.
5. Assuming the validity of such action under English law, under the laws of the State of New York relating to the submission of personal jurisdiction, the appointment by the Issuer in the Principal Agreements and the Notes of its agent for the service of process in England is a valid appointment and no further act is required to render such appointment effective and such agent is bound to act in accordance with such appointment.
4. No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or qualification with, any governmental body or agency under the laws of the State of New York or any federal law of the United States of America that in our experience is normally applicable to general business corporations in relation to transactions of the type contemplated by the Principal Agreements is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of its obligations under the Principal Agreements, except such as may be required under federal or state securities or Blue Sky laws as to which we express no opinion.
5. The execution and delivery by the Issuer of, and the performance by the Issuer of obligations under, the Principal Agreements will not contravene any provision of the laws of the State of New York or any federal law of the United States of America that in our experience is normally applicable to general business corporations in relation to transactions of the type contemplated thereby, provided that we express no opinion as to federal or state securities laws.
Page 54
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
Page 55
 
Each by its duly authorised signatory:
Page 56
 
 
 
Page I
 
Page II

Exhibit 4.1
is made on 5 August 2008
THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED AGENCY AGREEMENT
:
Between
:
Whereas
(A) The parties hereto entered into an amended and restated agency agreement dated 21 July 2006 as amended by a supplemental agreement dated 31 July 2007 (the ) in respect of a U.S.$2,500,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme (the ) of the Issuer.
Agency Agreement
Programme
(B) The parties hereto have agreed to make certain modifications to the Agency Agreement.
(C) This Agreement amends and restates the Agency Agreement. Any Notes issued under the Programme on or after the date hereof shall have the benefit of this Agreement.
as follows:
It is hereby agreed
1.
Definitions and interpretation
1.1 Terms and expressions defined in the Programme Agreement or the Notes or used in the applicable Final Terms shall have the same meanings in this Agreement, except where the context requires otherwise or unless otherwise stated.
1.2 Without prejudice to the foregoing:
means a Temporary Global Note or a Permanent Global Note the applicable Final Terms of which indicate that such Temporary Global Note or Permanent Global Note is not a New Global Note;
CGN
, means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme;
Clearstream
Luxembourg
 
means, in relation to the Notes of any Series, the terms and conditions endorsed on or incorporated by reference into the Note or Notes constituting such Series, such terms and conditions being in or substantially in the form set out in Schedule 1 or in such other form, having regard to the terms of the Notes of the relevant Series, as may be agreed between the Issuer, the Agent and the relevant Dealer(s) as modified and supplemented by the Final Terms applicable to the Notes of the relevant Series;
Conditions
means an interest coupon appertaining to a Definitive Note (other than a Zero Coupon Note), such coupon being:
Coupon
means the several persons who are for the time being holders of the Coupons and shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include the holders of the Talons;
Couponholders
means the amended and restated deed poll dated the date of this Agreement, substantially in the form set out in Schedule 3, executed as a deed by the Issuer in favour of certain account holders with Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg;
Deed of Covenant
means a definitive Note issued or, as the case may require, to be issued by the Issuer in accordance with the provisions of the Programme Agreement or any other agreement between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) in exchange for all or a part of either a Temporary Global Note or a Permanent Global Note (all as indicated in the applicable Final Terms), such definitive Note being in the form or substantially in the form set out in Part III of Schedule 2 with such modifications (if any) as may be agreed between the Issuer, the Agent and the relevant Dealer(s) and having the Conditions endorsed thereon or, if permitted by the relevant Stock Exchange, incorporating the Conditions by reference and having the applicable Final Terms (or the relevant provisions thereof) either endorsed thereon or attached thereto and (except in the case of a Zero Coupon Note) having Coupons and, where appropriate, Receipts and/or Talons attached thereto on issue;
Definitive Note
Page 2
 
means a Note in respect of which payments of principal and/or interest are made or to be made in such different currencies, and at rates of exchange calculated upon such basis or bases, as the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) may agree (as indicated in the applicable Final Terms);
Dual Currency Note
has the meaning given to such term in Regulation S under the Securities Act;
Distribution Compliance Period
means the currency established pursuant to the third stage of European Economic and Monetary Union pursuant to the Treaty establishing the European Community (as amended from time to time);
euro
means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V.;
Euroclear
means an NGN which is intended to be held in a manner which would allow Eurosystem eligibility, as stated in the applicable Final Terms;
Eurosystem-eligible NGN
means a Note on which interest is calculated at a fixed rate payable in arrear on a fixed date or dates in each year and on redemption or on such other dates as may be agreed between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) (as indicated in the applicable Final Terms);
Fixed Rate Note
means a Note on which interest is calculated at a floating rate payable one, two, three, six or twelve monthly or in respect of such other period or on such date(s) as may be agreed between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) (as indicated in the applicable Final Terms);
Floating Rate Note
means a Temporary Global Note and/or a Permanent Global Note, as applicable;
Global Note
means a Note in respect of which the amount payable in respect of interest is calculated by reference to an index and/or a formula as the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) may agree (as indicated in the applicable Final Terms);
Indexed Interest Note
means an Indexed Interest Note and/or an Indexed Redemption Amount Note, as applicable;
Indexed Note
means a Note in respect of which the amount payable in respect of principal is calculated by reference to an index and/or a formula as the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) may agree (as indicated in the applicable Final Terms);
Indexed Redemption Amount Note
means, in the case of interest-bearing Notes, the date specified in the applicable Final Terms from (and including) which such Notes bear interest, which may or may not be the Issue Date;
Interest Commencement Date
means the date of issue and purchase of a Note, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with the Programme Agreement or any other agreement between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s), being in the case of any Permanent Global Note issued in exchange for a Temporary Global Note or any Definitive Note, the same
Issue Date
Page 3
 
date as the date of issue of the Temporary Global Note which initially represented such Note;
means the price, generally expressed as a percentage of the nominal amount of the Notes, at which the Notes will be issued;
Issue Price
means, in relation to a Note, the date on which it is expressed to be redeemable;
Maturity Date
or means a Temporary Global Note or a Permanent Global Note the applicable Final Terms of which indicate that such Temporary Global Note or Permanent Global Note is a New Global Note;
NGN
New Global Note
means a note denominated in Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Czech Crowns, Danish Kroner, euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen, New Zealand Dollars, both African rand, Sterling, Swedish Kronor, Swiss Francs, U.S. Dollars or such other currency or currencies as may be agreed between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) issued or to be issued by the Issuer pursuant to the Programme Agreement or any other agreement between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) and which shall initially be represented by, and comprised in, either (i) a Temporary Global Note which may (in accordance with the terms of such Temporary Global Note) be exchanged for either Definitive Notes or a Permanent Global Note which Permanent Global Note may (in accordance with the terms of such Permanent Global Note) in turn be exchanged for Definitive Notes (all as indicated in the applicable Final Terms) or (ii) if so indicated in the applicable Final Terms, a Permanent Global Note exchangeable for Definitive Notes, and includes any replacements for a Note issued pursuant to Condition 10 and, where applicable, the Receipts relating thereto;
Note
means the several persons who are for the time being holders of the Notes save that, in respect of the Notes of any Series, for so long as such Notes or any part thereof are represented by a Global Note held on behalf of Euroclear and/or of Clearstream, Luxembourg, each person (other than Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg) who is for the time being shown in the records of Euroclear or of Clearstream, Luxembourg as the holder of a particular nominal amount of the Notes of such Series (in which regard any certificate or other document issued by Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg as to the nominal amount of such Notes standing to the account of any person shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes save in the case of manifest error) shall be treated by the Issuer, the Agent and any other Paying Agent as the holder of such nominal amount of such Notes for all purposes other than with respect to the payment of principal or interest on such Notes, for which purpose the bearer of the relevant Global Note shall be treated by the Issuer, the Agent and any other Paying Agent as the holder of such nominal amount of such Notes in accordance with and subject to the terms of the relevant Global Note and the expressions , and related expressions shall be construed accordingly;
Noteholders
Noteholder
holder of Notes
means, in relation to the Notes, all the Notes issued other than (a) those which have been redeemed in full in accordance with the Conditions, (b) those in respect of which the date for redemption in accordance with the Conditions has occurred and the redemption moneys wherefor (including all interest (if any) accrued
outstanding
Page 4
 
thereon to the date for such redemption and any interest (if any) payable under the Conditions after such date) have been duly paid to the Agent as provided herein (and, where appropriate, notice has been given to the Noteholders of the relevant Series in accordance with Condition 13) and remain available for payment against presentation of Notes, (c) those which have become void under Condition 8, (d) those which have been purchased and cancelled as provided in Condition 6, (e) those mutilated or defaced Notes which have been surrendered in exchange for replacement Notes pursuant to Condition 10, (f) (for the purpose only of determining how many Notes are outstanding and without prejudice to their status for any other purpose) those Notes alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed and in respect of which replacement Notes have been issued pursuant to Condition 10, (g) Temporary Global Notes to the extent that they shall have been duly exchanged for Permanent Global Notes and/or Definitive Notes and Permanent Global Notes to the extent that they shall have been duly exchanged for Definitive Notes, in each case pursuant to their respective provisions and (h) Temporary Global Notes and Permanent Global Notes which have become void in accordance with their terms (provided that at the Relevant Time (as defined in the Deed of Covenant) the Underlying Notes (as defined in the Deed of Covenant) will be deemed to be still outstanding)
and,
for each of the following purposes, namely:
provided that
those Notes (if any) which are for the time being held by any person (including but not limited to the Issuer or any Subsidiary) for the benefit of the Issuer or any Subsidiary shall (unless and until ceasing to be so held) be deemed not to be outstanding;
means a global note in the form or substantially in the form set out in Part II of Schedule 2 together with the copy of the applicable Final Terms attached thereto with such modifications (if any) as may be agreed between the Issuer, the Agent and the relevant Dealer(s), comprising some or all of the Notes of the same Series, issued by the Issuer pursuant to the Programme Agreement or any other agreement between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s) and:
Permanent Global Note
Page 5
 
means the programme agreement of even date herewith as amended, supplemented or restated from time to time between the Issuer and the Dealer(s) relating to the Programme;
Programme Agreement
means a receipt attached on issue to a Definitive Note redeemable in instalments for the payment of an instalment of principal, such receipt being in the form or substantially in the form set out in Part V of Schedule 2 or in such other form as may be agreed between the Issuer, the Agent and the relevant Dealer(s) and includes any replacements for Receipts issued pursuant to Condition 10;
Receipt
means the several persons who are for the time being holders of the Receipts;
Receiptholders
means a Tranche of the Notes together with any further Tranche or Tranches of the Notes which are (i) expressed to be consolidated and form a single series and (ii) are identical in all respects (including as to listing) except for their respective Issue Dates, Interest Commencement Dates and/or Issue Prices and the expressions and and related expressions shall be construed accordingly;
Series
Notes of the relevant Series
holders of Notes of the relevant Series
means any company which is for the time being a subsidiary or a subsidiary undertaking (within the meaning of Sections 736 and 258 respectively of the Companies Act 1985 of Great Britain) of the Issuer;
Subsidiary
means the talons (if any) appertaining to, and exchangeable in accordance with the provisions therein contained for further Coupons appertaining to, a Definitive Note (other than a Zero Coupon Note), such talons being in the form or substantially in the form set out in Part VI of Schedule 2 or in such other form as may be agreed between the Issuer, the Agent and the relevant Dealer(s) and includes any replacements for Talons issued pursuant to Condition 10;
Talons
means a global note in the form or substantially in the form set out in Part I of Schedule 2 together with the copy of the applicable Final Terms attached thereto with such modifications (if any) as may be agreed between the Issuer, the Agent and the relevant Dealer(s), comprising some or all of the Notes of the same Series, issued by the Issuer pursuant to the Programme Agreement or any other agreement between the Issuer and the relevant Dealer(s);
Temporary Global Note
means all Notes which are identical in all respects (including as to listing); and
Tranche
means a Note on which no interest is payable.
Zero Coupon Note
1.3 Words denoting the singular number only shall include the plural number also and vice versa; words denoting one gender only shall include the other gender; and words denoting persons only shall include firms and corporations and vice versa.
1.4 All references in this Agreement to costs or charges or expenses shall include any value added tax or similar tax charged or chargeable in respect thereof.
Page 6
 
1.5 For the purposes of this Agreement, the Notes of each Series shall form a separate series of Notes and the provisions of this Agreement shall apply separately and independently to the Notes of each Series and in this Agreement the expressions and shall be construed accordingly.
mutatis mutandis
Notes
,
Noteholders
,
Receipts
,
Receiptholders
,
Coupons
,
Couponholders
Talons
1.6 All references in this Agreement to principal and/or interest or both in respect of the Notes or to any moneys payable by the Issuer under this Agreement shall have the meaning set out in Condition 5.
1.7 All references in this Agreement to the "relevant currency" shall be construed as references to the currency in which the relevant Notes and/or Coupons are denominated (or payable in the case of Dual Currency Notes).
1.8 In this Agreement, Clause headings are inserted for convenience and ease of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement. All references in this Agreement to the provisions of any statute shall be deemed to be references to that statute as from time to time modified, extended, amended or re-enacted or to any statutory instrument, order or regulation made thereunder or under such re-enactment.
1.9 All references in this Agreement to an agreement, instrument or other document (including, without limitation, this Agreement, the Programme Agreement, the Deed of Covenant, the Notes and any Conditions appertaining thereto) shall be construed as a reference to that agreement, instrument or document as the same may be amended, modified, varied or supplemented from time to time.
1.10 Any references herein to Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg shall, whenever the context so permits, be deemed to include a reference to any additional or alternative clearance system approved by the Issuer and the Agent.
1.11 Unless the contrary intention appears, all references in this Agreement to the records of Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg shall be to the records that each of Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg holds for its customers, which reflect the amount of such customer's interest in the Notes.
2.
Appointment of agent and paying agents
2.1 The Agent is hereby appointed, and the Agent hereby agrees to act, as agent of the Issuer, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set out below, for the purposes of, :
inter alia
Page 7
 
2.2 Each Paying Agent is hereby appointed as paying agent of the Issuer, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set out below, for the purposes of paying sums due on Notes, Receipts and Coupons and of performing all other obligations and duties imposed upon it by the Conditions and this Agreement.
2.3 In relation to each issue of Eurosystem-eligible NGNs, the Issuer hereby authorises and instructs the Agent to elect Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg as common safekeeper. From time to time, the Issuer and the Agent may agree to vary this election. The Issuer acknowledges that any such election is subject to the right of Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg to jointly determine that the other shall act as common safekeeper in relation to any such issue and agrees that no liability shall attach to the Agent in respect of any such election made by it.
2.4 The Notes (including all Temporary Global Notes, Permanent Global Notes and Definitive Notes and any Receipts, Coupons and Talons) will bear the following
Page 8
 
legend: "Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code." The sections referred to in this legend provide that, with exceptions, a United States person will not be permitted to deduct any loss, and will not be eligible for capital gain treatment with respect to any gain realized on the sale, exchange or redemption of that Note. The following legend will appear on all Notes that have maturity (at issue) of 183 days or less including unilateral extensions and rollovers: "By accepting this obligation, the holder represents and warrants that it is not a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(b)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, and regulations thereunder) and that it is not acting for or on behalf of a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(b)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder)."
3.
Issue of Global Notes
3.1 Subject to Clause 3.4, following receipt of (i) in the case of an issue not subscribed pursuant to a Subscription Agreement, a faxed copy of the Final Terms signed by the Issuer or (ii) in the case of an issue subscribed pursuant to a Subscription Agreement, an executed copy of the Subscription Agreement, the Issuer hereby authorises the Agent and the Agent hereby agrees to take the steps required of the Agent in the Procedures Memorandum.
3.2 For the purpose of Clause 3.1 the Agent will, , on behalf of the Issuer if specified in the applicable Final Terms or form of Final Terms appearing in the Subscription Agreement that a Temporary Global Note will initially represent the Tranche of Notes:
inter alia
(b) authenticate such Temporary Global Note;
Page 9
 
3.3 For the purpose of Clause 3.1 the Agent will, , on behalf of the Issuer if specified in the applicable Final Terms or form of Final Terms appearing in the Subscription Agreement that a Permanent Global Note will initially represent the Notes on issue:
inter alia
Page 10
 
4.
Determination of exchange date, issue of permanent global notes and definitive notes in exchange for temporary global notes and determination of end of restricted period
Page 11
 
5.
Issue of definitive notes
5.1 Upon notice from Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg pursuant to the terms of a Temporary Global Note or a Permanent Global Note, as the case may be,
Page 12
 
the Agent shall deliver the relevant Definitive Note(s) in accordance with the terms of the relevant Global Note (which terms will include, in the case of definitive notes issued in exchange for interests in a Temporary Global Note, obtaining certification for U.S. tax purposes pursuant to U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(3) for Notes other than (x) Notes meeting the requirements of U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(3)(iii) and (y) Notes with a maturity (at issue) of 183 days or less (including unilateral extensions and rollovers)). For this purpose the Agent is hereby authorised on behalf of the Issuer:
All Definitive Notes must bear the legend or legends required under Clause 2.4.
The Agent shall notify the Issuer forthwith upon receipt of a request for issue of a Definitive Note or Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of a Temporary Global Note or Permanent Global Note, as the case may be, and the aggregate nominal amount of such Temporary Global Note or Permanent Global Note, as the case may be, to be exchanged in connection therewith.
5.2 The Issuer undertakes to deliver to, or to the order of, the Agent sufficient numbers of executed Definitive Notes with, if applicable, Receipts, Coupons and Talons attached to enable the Agent to comply with its obligations under this Clause.
6.
Terms of issue
6.1 The Agent shall cause all Temporary Global Notes, Permanent Global Notes and Definitive Notes delivered to it, or to its order and held by it or at its order under this Agreement to be maintained in safe custody and shall ensure that such Notes are issued only in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the relevant Global Note and Conditions.
6.2 Subject to the procedures set out in the Procedures Memorandum, for the purposes of Clause 3 the Agent is entitled to treat a telephone, telex or facsimile communication from a person purporting to be (and who the Agent believes in good faith to be) the authorised representative of the Issuer named in the list referred to in, or notified pursuant to, Clause 19.7 as sufficient instructions and authority of the Issuer for the Agent to act in accordance with Clause 3.1.
6.3 In the event that a person who has signed on behalf of the Issuer any Note not yet issued but held by the Agent in accordance with Clause 3.1 ceases to be authorised as described in Clause 19.7, the Agent shall (unless the Issuer gives notice to the Agent that Notes signed by that person do not constitute valid and binding obligations of the Issuer or otherwise until replacements have been provided to the
Page 13
 
Agent) continue to have authority to issue any such Notes, and the Issuer hereby warrants to the Agent that such Notes shall, unless notified as aforesaid, be valid and binding obligations of the Issuer. Promptly upon such person ceasing to be authorised, the Issuer shall provide the Agent with replacement Notes and upon receipt of such replacement Notes the Agent shall cancel and destroy the Notes held by it which are signed by such person and shall provide to the Issuer a confirmation of destruction in respect thereof specifying the Notes so cancelled and destroyed.
6.4 If the Agent pays an amount (the ) to the Issuer on the basis that a payment (the ) has been, or will be, received from a Dealer and if the Payment is not received by the Agent on the date the Agent pays the Issuer, the Issuer shall repay to the Agent the Advance and shall pay interest on the Advance (or the unreimbursed portion thereof) from (and including) the date such Advance is made to (but excluding) the earlier of repayment of the Advance and receipt by the Agent of the Payment (at a rate quoted at that time by the Agent as its cost of funding the Advance provided that evidence of the basis of such rate is given to the Issuer).
Advance
Payment
6.5 Except in the case of issues where the Agent does not act as receiving bank for the Issuer in respect of the purchase price of the Notes being issued, if on the relevant Issue Date a Dealer does not pay the full purchase price due from it in respect of any Note (the ) and, as a result, the Defaulted Note remains in the Agent's distribution account with Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg after such Issue Date, the Agent will continue to hold the Defaulted Note to the order of the Issuer. The Agent shall notify the Issuer forthwith of the failure of the Dealer to pay the full purchase price due from it in respect of any Defaulted Note and, subsequently, shall notify the Issuer forthwith upon receipt from the Dealer of the full purchase price in respect of such Defaulted Note.
Defaulted Note
7.
Payments
7.1 Subject to the final paragraph of Condition 5(b), no payment on any Note or Coupon will be made at the corporate trust office of a Paying Agent or any other agency maintained by the Issuer in the United States nor will any payment be made by any transfer to an account in, or by mail to an address in, the United States except as may be permitted by U.S. tax law in effect at the time of such payment without detriment to the Issuer in the opinion of the Issuer.
If such payment may be made the Issuer will notify the Agent accordingly.
The Issuer will, before 10 a.m. (local time in the relevant financial centre of the payment), on each date on which any payment in respect of any Note becomes due, transfer to an account specified by the Agent such amount in the relevant currency as shall be sufficient for the purposes of such payment in funds settled through such payment system as the Agent and the Issuer may agree.
7.2 The Issuer will ensure that no later than 10.00 a.m. (London time) on the second Business Day (as defined below) immediately preceding the date on which any payment is to be made to the Agent pursuant to Clause 7.1, the Agent shall receive from the paying bank of the Issuer a payment confirmation in the form of a
Page 14
 
tested telex or authenticated SWIFT MT100 message or other form acceptable to the Agent. For the purposes of this Clause means a day which is both:
Business Day
7.4 Subject to the receipt by the Agent of the payment confirmation as provided in Clause 7.2 above, the Agent or the relevant Paying Agent shall pay or cause to be paid all amounts due in respect of the Notes on behalf of the Issuer in the manner provided in the Conditions. If any payment provided for in Clause 7.1 is made late but otherwise in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Agent and each Paying Agent shall nevertheless make payments in respect of the Notes as aforesaid following receipt by it of such payment.
7.5 If for any reason the Agent considers in its sole discretion that the amounts to be received by the Agent pursuant to Clause 7.1 will be, or the amounts actually received by it pursuant thereto are, insufficient to satisfy all claims in respect of all payments then falling due in respect of the Notes, neither the Agent nor any Paying Agent shall be obliged to pay any such claims until the Agent has received the full amount of all such payments.
Page 15
 
7.6 Without prejudice to Clauses 7.4 and 7.5, if the Agent pays any amounts to the holders of Notes, Receipts or Coupons or to any Paying Agent at a time when it has not received payment in full in respect of the relevant Notes in accordance with Clause 7.1 (the excess of the amounts so paid over the amounts so received being the ), the Issuer will, in addition to paying amounts due under Clause 7.1, pay to the Agent on demand interest (at a rate which represents the Agent's cost of funding the Shortfall) on the Shortfall (or the unreimbursed portion thereof) until the receipt in full by the Agent of the Shortfall.
Shortfall
7.7 The Agent shall on demand promptly reimburse each Paying Agent for payments in respect of Notes properly made by such Paying Agent in accordance with this Agreement and the Conditions unless the Agent has notified the Paying Agent, prior to the opening of business in the location of the office of the Paying Agent through which payment in respect of the Notes can be made on the due date of payment in respect of the Notes, that the Agent does not expect to receive sufficient funds to make payment of all amounts falling due in respect of such Notes.
7.8 Whilst any Notes are represented by Global Notes, all payments due in respect of such Notes shall be made to, or to the order of, the holder of the Global Notes, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Global Notes. On the occasion of any such payment, (i) in the case of an CGN, the Paying Agent to which the Global Note was presented for the purpose of making such payment shall cause the appropriate Schedule to the relevant Global Note to be annotated so as to evidence the amounts and dates of such payments of principal and/or interest as applicable or (ii) in the case of any Global Note which is an NGN, the Agent shall instruct Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg to make appropriate entries in their records to reflect such payment.
7.9 If the amount of principal and/or interest then due for payment is not paid in full (otherwise than by reason of a deduction required by law to be made therefrom), (i) the Paying Agent to which a Note is presented for the purpose of making such payment shall, unless the Note is an NGN, make a record of such Shortfall on the Note and such record shall, in the absence of manifest error, be evidence that the payment in question has not to that extent been made or (ii) in the case of any Global Note which is an NGN, the Agent shall instruct Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg to make appropriate entries in their records to reflect such Shortfall in payment.
prima facie
8.
Determinations and notifications in respect of notes and interest determination
Page 16
 
8.2 Interest Determination, Screen Rate Determination including Fallback Provisions
Page 17
 
Page 18
 
9.
Notice of any withholding or deduction
If the Issuer is, in respect of any payment, compelled to withhold or deduct any amount for or on account of taxes, duties, assessments or governmental charges as specifically contemplated under the Conditions, the Issuer shall give notice thereof to the Agent as soon as practicable after it becomes aware of the requirement to make such withholding or deduction and shall give to the Agent such information as it shall reasonably require to enable it to comply with such requirement.
10.
Duties of the agent in connection with early redemption
10.1 If the Issuer decides to redeem any Notes for the time being outstanding prior to their Maturity Date in accordance with the Conditions, the Issuer shall give notice of such decision to the Agent not less than 15 days before the date on which the Issuer will give notice to the Noteholders in accordance with the Conditions of such redemption in order to enable the Agent to undertake its obligations herein and in the Conditions.
10.2 If some only of the Notes are to be redeemed on such date, the Agent shall make the required drawing in accordance with the Conditions but shall give the Issuer reasonable notice of the time and place, proposed for such drawing and the Issuer shall be entitled to send representatives to attend such drawing.
10.3 The Agent shall publish the notice required in connection with any such redemption and shall at the same time also publish a separate list of the serial numbers of any Notes previously drawn and not presented for redemption. Such notice shall specify the date fixed for redemption, the redemption amount, the manner in which redemption will be effected and, in the case of a partial redemption, the serial numbers of the Notes to be redeemed. Such notice will be published in accordance with the Conditions. The Agent will also notify the other Paying Agents of any date fixed for redemption of any Notes.
10.4 Each Paying Agent will keep a stock of notices (each a ) in the form set out in Schedule 5 and will make such notices available on demand to holders of Notes, the Conditions of which provide for redemption at the option of Noteholders. Upon receipt of any Note deposited in the exercise of such option in accordance with the Conditions, the Paying Agent with which such Note is deposited shall hold such Note (together with any Receipts, Coupons and Talons relating to it deposited with it) on behalf of the depositing Noteholder (but shall not, save as provided below, release it) until the due date for redemption of the relevant Note consequent upon the exercise of such option, when, subject as provided below, it shall
Put Notice
Page 19
 
present such Note (and any such Receipts, Coupons and Talons) to itself for payment of the amount due thereon together with any interest due on such date in accordance with the Conditions and shall pay such moneys in accordance with the directions of the Noteholder contained in the Put Notice. If, prior to such due date for its redemption such Note becomes immediately due and payable or if upon due presentation payment of such redemption moneys is improperly withheld or refused, the Paying Agent concerned shall post such Note (together with any such Receipts, Coupons and Talons) by uninsured post to, and at the risk of, the relevant Noteholder unless the Noteholder has otherwise requested and paid the costs of such insurance to the relevant Paying Agent at the time of depositing the Notes at such address as may have been given by the Noteholder in the Put Notice. At the end of each period for the exercise of such option, each Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Agent of the principal amount of the Notes in respect of which such option has been exercised with it together with their serial numbers and the Agent shall promptly notify such details to the Issuer.
11.
Receipt and publication of notices
11.1 Forthwith upon the receipt by the Agent of a demand or notice from any Noteholder in accordance with the Conditions the Agent shall forward a copy thereof to the Issuer.
11.2 On behalf of and at the request and expense of the Issuer, the Agent shall cause to be published all notices required to be given by the Issuer to the Noteholders in accordance with the Conditions.
12.
Cancellation of notes, receipts, coupons and talons
12.1 All Notes which are redeemed, all Receipts or Coupons which are paid and all Talons which are exchanged shall be cancelled by the Agent or Paying Agent by which they are redeemed, paid or exchanged. The Issuer shall immediately notify the Agent in writing of all Notes which are purchased by the Issuer or any Subsidiary. In addition, all Notes which are purchased by or on behalf of the Issuer or any Subsidiary and are surrendered to a Paying Agent for cancellation, together (in the case of Definitive Notes) with all unmatured Receipts, Coupons or Talons (if any) attached thereto or surrendered therewith, shall be cancelled by the Paying Agent to which they are surrendered. Each of the other Paying Agents shall give to the Agent details of all payments made by it and shall deliver all cancelled Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons to or to the order of the Agent.
Page 20
 
shall be given to the Issuer by the Agent as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within three months after the date of such repayment or, as the case may be, payment or exchange.
The Agent shall destroy or procure the destruction of all cancelled Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons and, forthwith upon destruction, furnish the Issuer with a certificate of the serial numbers of the Notes (in the case of Notes in definitive form) and the number by maturity date of Receipts, Coupons and Talons so destroyed.
Without prejudice to the obligations of the Agent pursuant to Clause 2, the Agent shall keep a full and complete record of all Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons (other than serial numbers of Coupons, except those which have been replaced pursuant to Condition 10) and of their redemption, purchase by or on behalf of the Issuer or any Subsidiary and cancellation, payment or exchange (as the case may be) and of all replacement Notes, Receipts, Coupons or Talons issued in substitution for mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes, Receipts, Coupons or Talons. The Agent shall at all reasonable times make such record available to the Issuer and any persons authorised by it for inspection and for the taking of copies thereof or extracts therefrom.
12.3 The Agent is authorised by the Issuer and instructed (a) in the case of any Global Note which is a CGN, to endorse or to arrange for the endorsement of the relevant Global Note to reflect the reduction in the nominal amount represented by it by the amount so redeemed or purchased and cancelled and (b) in the case of any Global Note which is an NGN, to instruct Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg to make appropriate entries in their records to reflect such redemption or purchase and cancellation, as the case may be; provided, that, in the case of a purchase or cancellation, the Issuer has notified the Agent of the same in accordance with Clause 12.1.
12.4 All records and certificates made or given pursuant to this Clause and Clause 13 shall make a distinction between Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons of each Series.
12.5 The Agent may call for and shall rely in any records, certificate or other document of or to be issued by Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg in relation to any determination of the principal amount of Notes represented by an NGN. Any such records, certificate or other document shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes. The Agent shall not be liable to any person by reason of having acquired as valid or not having rejected any such records, certificate or other document to such effect purporting to be issued by Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg and subsequently found to be forged or not authentic.
Page 21
 
13.
Issue of replacement notes, receipts, coupons and talons
13.1 The Issuer will cause a sufficient quantity of additional forms of Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons to be available, upon request, to the Agent at its specified office for the purpose of issuing replacement Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons as provided below.
13.2 The Agent will, subject to and in accordance with the Conditions and the following provisions of this Clause, cause to be delivered any replacement Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons which the Issuer may determine to issue in place of Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons which have been lost, stolen, mutilated, defaced or destroyed.
13.3 In the case of a mutilated or defaced Note, the Agent shall ensure that (unless otherwise covered by such indemnity as the Issuer may reasonably require) any replacement Note will only have attached to it Receipts, Coupons and Talons corresponding to those (if any) attached to the mutilated or defaced Note which is presented for replacement.
13.4 The Agent shall not issue any replacement Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon unless and until the claimant therefor shall have:
13.5 The Agent shall cancel any mutilated or defaced Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons in respect of which replacement Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons have been issued pursuant to this Clause 13 and shall furnish the Issuer with a certificate stating the serial numbers of the Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons so cancelled and, unless otherwise instructed by the Issuer in writing, shall destroy such cancelled Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons and furnish the Issuer with a destruction certificate containing the information specified in Clause 12.3.
13.6 The Agent shall, on issuing any replacement Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon, forthwith inform the Issuer and the other Paying Agents of the serial number of such replacement Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon issued and (if known) of the serial number of the Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon in place of which such replacement Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon has been issued. Whenever replacement Receipts, Coupons or Talons are issued pursuant to the provisions of this Clause 13, the Agent shall also notify the other Paying Agents of the maturity dates of the lost, stolen, mutilated, defaced or destroyed Receipts, Coupons or Talons and of the replacement Receipts, Coupons or Talons issued.
13.7 The Agent shall keep a full and complete record of all replacement Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons issued and shall make such record available at all
Page 22
 
reasonable times to the Issuer and any persons authorised by it for inspection and for the taking of copies thereof or extracts therefrom.
13.8 Whenever any Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon for which a replacement Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon has been issued and in respect of which the serial number is known and is presented to the Agent or any of the other Paying Agents for payment, the Agent or, as the case may be, the relevant other Paying Agent shall immediately send notice thereof to the Issuer and the other Paying Agents.
14.
Copies of documents available for inspection
14.1 So long as listed Notes are outstanding or Notes are capable of being issued under the Programme, copies of the following documents will, when published, be available from the registered office of the Issuer and from the specified office of the Agent in London:
For this purpose, the Issuer shall furnish the Agent and the Paying Agents with sufficient copies of each of such documents.
14.2 Each of the Paying Agents shall hold available for inspection at its specified office copies of:
Page 23
 
(b) the Deed of Covenant; and
14.3 For the above purposes, the Issuer shall furnish the Agent and the Paying Agent with sufficient copies of each of the relevant documents.
15.
Meetings of noteholders
15.1 The provisions of Schedule 4 shall apply to meetings of the Noteholders and shall have effect in the same manner as if set out in this Agreement.
15.2 Without prejudice to Clause 15.1, each of the Agent and the other Paying Agents on the request of any Noteholder shall issue voting certificates and block voting instructions in accordance with Schedule 4 and shall forthwith give notice to the Issuer in writing of any revocation or amendment of a block voting instruction. Each of the Agent and the other Paying Agents will keep a full and complete record of all voting certificates and block voting instructions issued by it and will, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for holding a meeting or adjourned meeting, deposit at such place as the Agent shall designate or approve, full particulars of all voting certificates and block voting instructions issued by it in respect of such meeting or adjourned meeting.
16.
Commissions and expenses
16.1 The Issuer agrees to pay to the Agent such fees and commissions as the Issuer and the Agent shall separately agree in respect of the services of the Agent and the other Paying Agents hereunder together with any reasonable expenses (including legal, printing, postage, tax, cable and advertising expenses) incurred by the Agent and the other Paying Agents in connection with their said services.
16.2 The Agent will make payment of the fees and commissions due hereunder to the other Paying Agents and will reimburse their expenses promptly after the receipt of the relevant moneys from the Issuer. The Issuer shall not be responsible for any such payment or reimbursement by the Agent to the other Paying Agents.
17.
Indemnity
17.1 The Issuer shall indemnify the Agent and its directors and officers and each of the other Paying Agents against any losses, liabilities, costs, claims, actions, demands or expenses (including, but not limited to, all reasonable costs, legal fees, charges and expenses paid or incurred in disputing or defending any of the foregoing) which any of them may incur or which may be made against the Agent or any other Paying Agent as a result of or in connection with its appointment or the exercise of its powers
Page 24
 
and duties hereunder except such as may result from its own default, negligence or bad faith or that of its officers, directors or employees or the breach by it of the terms of this Agreement.
17.2 Each of the Agent and the other Paying Agents shall severally indemnify the Issuer and its directors and officers against any loss, liability, cost, claim, action, demand or expenses (including, but not limited to, all reasonable costs, legal fees, charges and expenses paid or incurred in disputing or defending any of the foregoing) which any of them may incur or which may be made against any of them as a result of the breach by the Agent or such other Paying Agents of the terms of this Agreement or its default, negligence or bad faith or that of its officers, directors or employees.
18.
Repayment by the agent
Upon the Issuer being discharged from its obligation to make payments in respect of any Notes pursuant to the relevant Conditions, and provided that there is no outstanding, and proper claim in respect of any such payments, the Agent shall forthwith on demand pay to the Issuer sums equivalent to any amounts paid to it by the Issuer for the purposes of such payments.
bona fide
19.
Conditions of appointment
19.1 The Agent shall be entitled to deal with money paid to it by the Issuer for the purpose of this Agreement in the same manner as other money paid to a banker by its customers except:
19.2 In acting hereunder and in connection with the Notes, the Agent and the other Paying Agents shall act solely as agents of the Issuer and will not thereby assume any obligations towards or relationship of agency or trust for or with any of the owners or holders of the Notes, Receipts, Coupons or Talons, except that all funds held by the Agent or the other Paying Agents for payment to the Noteholders, Couponholders and Receiptholders shall be held by it, to be applied as set forth herein, but need not be segregated from other funds except as required by law.
19.3 The Agent and the other Paying Agents hereby undertake to the Issuer to perform such obligations and duties, and shall be obliged to perform such duties and only such duties, as are herein, in the Conditions and in the Procedures Memorandum specifically set forth, and no implied duties or obligations shall be read into this Agreement or the Notes against the Agent and the other Paying Agents, other than the duty to act honestly and in good faith and to exercise the diligence of a reasonably prudent agent in comparable circumstances.
Page 25
 
19.4 The Agent may consult with legal and other professional advisers reasonably acceptable to the Issuer and the opinion of such advisers shall be full and complete protection in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the opinion of such advisers.
19.5 Each of the Agent and the other Paying Agents shall be protected and shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered in reliance upon any instruction, request or order from the Issuer or any notice, resolution, direction, consent, certificate, affidavit, statement, cable, telex or other paper or document which it reasonably believes to be genuine and to have been delivered, signed or sent by the proper party or parties or upon written instructions from the Issuer.
19.6 Any of the Agent and the other Paying Agents and their officers, directors and employees may become the owner of, or acquire any interest in, any Notes, Receipts, Coupons or Talons with the same rights that it or he would have if the Agent or the relevant other Paying Agent, as the case may be, concerned were not appointed hereunder, and may engage or be interested in any financial or other transaction with the Issuer and may act on, or as depositary, trustee or agent for, any committee or body of holders of Notes or Coupons or in connection with any other obligations of the Issuer as freely as if the Agent or the relevant other Paying Agent, as the case may be, were not appointed hereunder.
19.7 The Issuer shall provide the Agent with a certified copy of the list of persons authorised to execute documents and take action on its behalf in connection with this Agreement and shall notify the Agent immediately in writing if any of such persons ceases to be so authorised or if any additional person becomes so authorised together, in the case of an additional authorised person, with evidence satisfactory to the Agent that such person has been so authorised.
20.
Communication between the parties
A copy of all communications relating to the subject matter of this Agreement between the Issuer and the Noteholders, Receiptholders or Couponholders and any of the Paying Agents (other than the Agent) shall be sent to the Agent by the other relevant Paying Agent.
21.
Changes in agent and other paying agents
21.1 The Issuer agrees that, for so long as any Note is outstanding, or until moneys for the payment of all amounts in respect of all outstanding Notes have been made available to the Agent and have been returned to the Issuer as provided herein:
Page 26
 
In addition, the Issuer shall appoint a Paying Agent having a specified office in New York City in the circumstances described in the final paragraph of Condition 5(b). Any variation, termination, appointment or change shall only take effect (other than in the case of insolvency (as provided in Clause 21.5, when it shall be of immediate effect) after not less than 30 nor more than 45 days' prior notice thereof shall have been given to the Noteholders in accordance with the Conditions.
21.2 The Agent may (subject as provided in Clause 21.4) at any time resign as Agent by giving at least 90 days' written notice to the Issuer of such intention on its part, specifying the date on which its desired resignation shall become effective.
21.3 The Agent may (subject as provided in Clause 21.4) be removed at any time by the Issuer on at least 45 days' notice by the filing with it of an instrument in writing signed on behalf of the Issuer specifying such removal and the date when it shall become effective.
21.4 Any resignation under Clause 21.2 or removal under Clause 21.3 or 21.5 shall only take effect upon the appointment by the Issuer as hereinafter provided, of a successor Agent and (other than in cases of insolvency of the Agent) on the expiry of the notice to be given under Clause 23. The Issuer agrees with the Agent that if, by the day falling ten days before the expiry of any notice under Clause 21.2, the Issuer has not appointed a successor Agent, then the Agent shall be entitled, on behalf of the Issuer, to appoint as a successor Agent in its place a reputable financial institution of good standing which the Issuer shall approve (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
21.5 In case at any time the Agent resigns, or is removed, or becomes incapable of acting or is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent, or files a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors or consents to the appointment of an administrator, liquidator or administrative or other receiver of all or a substantial part of its property, or admits in writing its inability to pay or meet its debts as they mature or suspends payment thereof, or if any order of any court is entered approving any petition filed by or against it under the provisions of any applicable bankruptcy or insolvency law or if a receiver of it or of all or a substantial part of its property is appointed or if any officer takes charge or control of it or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, a successor Agent, which shall be a reputable financial institution of good standing may be appointed by the Issuer by an instrument in writing filed with the successor Agent. Upon the appointment as aforesaid of a successor Agent and acceptance by the latter of such appointment and (other than in case of insolvency of the Agent when it shall be of immediate effect) upon expiry of the notice to be given under Clause 23 the Agent so superseded shall cease to be the Agent hereunder.
21.6 Subject to Clause 21.1, the Issuer may, after prior consultation with the Agent, terminate the appointment of any of the other Paying Agents at any time and/or appoint one or more further other Paying Agents by giving to the Agent, and to the relevant other Paying Agent at least 45 days' notice in writing to that effect (other than in the case of insolvency of the other Paying Agent).
Page 27
 
21.7 Subject to Clause 21.1, all or any of the Paying Agents may resign their respective appointments hereunder at any time by giving the Issuer and the Agent at least 45 days' written notice to that effect.
21.8 Upon its resignation or removal becoming effective, the Agent or the relevant Paying Agent:
21.9 Upon its appointment becoming effective, a successor Agent and any new Paying Agent shall, without further act, deed or conveyance, become vested with all the authority, rights, powers, trusts, immunities, duties and obligations of its predecessor or, as the case may be, a Paying Agent with like effect as if originally named as Agent or (as the case may be) a Paying Agent hereunder.
22.
Merger and consolidation
Any corporation into which the Agent or any other Paying Agent may be merged or converted, or any corporation with which the Agent or any of the other Paying Agents may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Agent or any of the other Paying Agents shall be a party, or any corporation to which the Agent or any of the other Paying Agents shall sell or otherwise transfer all or substantially all the assets of the Agent or any other Paying Agent shall, on the date when such merger, conversion, consolidation or transfer becomes effective and to the extent permitted by any applicable laws, become the successor Agent or, as the case may be, other Paying Agent under this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the parties hereto, unless otherwise required by the Issuer and after the said effective date all references in this Agreement to the Agent or, as the case may be, such other Paying Agent shall be deemed to be references to such corporation. Written notice of any such merger, conversion, consolidation or transfer shall forthwith be given to the Issuer by the relevant Agent or other Paying Agent.
23.
Notification of changes to paying agents
Following receipt of notice of resignation from the Agent or any other Paying Agent and forthwith upon appointing a successor Agent or, as the case may be, further or other Paying Agents or on giving notice to terminate the appointment of any Agent or, as the case may be, other Paying Agent, the Agent (on behalf of and at the expense of the Issuer) shall give or cause to be given not more than 45 days' nor less than 30 days' notice thereof to the Noteholders in accordance with the Conditions.
Page 28
 
24.
Change of specified office
If the Agent or any other Paying Agent determines to change its specified office it shall (after having, in any such case other than a change of specified office within the same city, obtained the prior written approval of the Issuer thereto) give to the Issuer and (if applicable) the Agent written notice of such determination giving the address of the new specified office which shall be in the same city and stating the date on which such change is to take effect, which shall not be less than 45 days thereafter. The Agent (on behalf and at the expense of the Issuer shall within 15 days of receipt of such notice (unless the appointment of the Agent or the other relevant Paying Agent, as the case may be, is to terminate pursuant to Clause 21 on or prior to the date of such change)) give or cause to be given not more than 45 days' nor less than 30 days' notice thereof to the Noteholders in accordance with the Conditions.
25.
Notices
Any notice or communication given hereunder shall be sufficiently given or served:
Where a communication is received after business hours it shall be deemed to be received and become effective on the next business day. Every communication shall be irrevocable save in respect of any manifest error therein.
26.
Taxes and stamp duties
The Issuer agrees to pay any and all stamp and other documentary taxes or duties which may be payable in connection with the execution, delivery, performance and enforcement of this Agreement.
27.
Currency indemnity
If, under any applicable law and whether pursuant to a judgment being made or registered against the Issuer or in the liquidation, insolvency or analogous process of the Issuer or for any other reason, any payment under or in connection with this Agreement is made or fails to be satisfied in a currency (the ) other than that in which the relevant payment is expressed to be due (the ) under this Agreement, then, to the extent that the payment (when converted into the required currency at the rate of exchange on the date of payment or, if it is not practicable for the Agent or the relevant other Paying Agent to purchase the required currency with the other currency on the date of payment, at the rate of exchange as soon thereafter as it is practicable for it to do so or, in the case of a liquidation,
other currency
required currency
Page 29
 
insolvency or analogous process at the rate of exchange on the latest date permitted by applicable law for the determination of liabilities in such liquidation, insolvency or analogous process) actually received by the Agent or the relevant other Paying Agent falls short of the amount due under the terms of this Agreement, the Issuer undertakes that it shall, as a separate and independent obligation, indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each other Paying Agent against the amount of such shortfall. For the purpose of this Clause, the means the rate at which the Agent or the relevant other Paying Agent is able on the relevant date to purchase the required currency with the other currency and shall take into account any premium and other costs of exchange.
rate of exchange
28.
Amendments
This Agreement may be amended in writing by agreement between the Issuer, the Agent and the other Paying Agents, but without the consent of any Noteholder, Receiptholder or Couponholder, for the purpose of curing any ambiguity or of curing, correcting or supplementing any defective provision contained herein or in any manner which the parties may mutually deem necessary or desirable and which shall not be materially prejudicial to the interests of the Noteholders. The Issuer and the Agent may also agree any modification pursuant to Condition 15.
29.
Descriptive headings
The descriptive headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof.
30.
Governing law and submission to jurisdiction
30.1 This Agreement is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of England.
30.2 The Issuer hereby irrevocably agrees, for the exclusive benefit of the Paying Agents, that the courts of England are to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement and that accordingly any suit, action or proceedings (together referred to as ) arising out of or in connection with this Agreement may be brought in such courts. The Issuer hereby irrevocably waives any objection which it may have now or hereafter to the laying of the venue of any such Proceedings in any such court and any claim that any such Proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum and hereby further irrevocably agrees that a judgment in any such Proceedings brought in the English courts shall be conclusive and binding upon it and may be enforced in the courts of any other jurisdiction. Nothing contained in this Clause shall limit any right to take Proceedings against the Issuer in any other court of competent jurisdiction, nor shall the taking of Proceedings in one or more jurisdictions preclude the taking of Proceedings in any other jurisdiction, whether concurrently or not. The Issuer hereby appoints PepsiCo International Limited at its registered office at 63 Kew Road, Richmond, Surrey, England TW9 2QL (Attention: Division Counsel) as its agent for service of process, and undertakes that, in the event of PepsiCo International Limited ceasing so to act or ceasing to be registered in England, it will appoint another person, as the Agent may approve, as its agent for service of process in England in respect of
Proceedings
Page 30
 
any Proceedings. Nothing herein shall affect the right to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
31.
Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999
A person who is not a party to this Agreement shall have no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any of its terms.
32.
Counterparts
This Agreement my be executed by any one or more of the parties hereto in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
in witness whereof
Page 31
 
 
is made on [               ]
This Agreement
Between
(1) PepsiCo, Inc. of 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 (the ); and
Issuer
(2) [               ] of [               ] (the , which expression shall include its successor or successors for the time being as calculation agent hereunder).
Calculation Agent
Whereas
(A) The Issuer has entered into an amended and restated Programme Agreement with the Dealers named therein dated 5 August 2008 (the ), under which the Issuer may issue Euro Medium Term Notes () with an aggregate nominal amount of up to U.S.$2,500,000,000 (or its equivalent in other currencies).
Programme Agreement
Notes
(B) The Notes will be issued subject to and with the benefit of the amended and restated Agency Agreement dated 5 August 2008 (the ) and entered into between the Issuer, The Bank of New York Mellon as Agent (the which expression shall include its successor or successors for the time being under the Agency Agreement) and the other parties, named therein.
Agency Agreement
Agent
that
Now it is hereby agreed
Interpretation
1. Save as otherwise stated herein, all words and phrases defined in the Agency Agreement shall have the same meaning as when used in this Agreement.
Appointment of the Calculation Agent
2. The Issuer hereby appoints [               ] as Calculation Agent in respect of each Series of Notes described in the Schedule hereto (the ) for the purposes set out in Clause 3 below, all upon the provisions hereinafter set out. The agreement of the parties hereto that this Agreement is to apply to each Series of Relevant Notes shall be evidenced by the manuscript annotation and signature in counterpart of the Schedule hereto.
Relevant Notes
Duties of Calculation Agent
3. The Calculation Agent shall in relation to each Series of Relevant Notes perform all the functions and duties imposed on the Calculation Agent by the terms and conditions of the Relevant Notes (the ) including endorsing the Schedule hereto appropriately in relation to each Series of Relevant Notes.
Conditions
Expenses
4. Save as provided in Clause 5 below, the Calculation Agent shall bear all expenses incurred by it in connection with its said services.
Page 33
 
Indemnity
5.1 The Issuer shall indemnify the Calculation Agent and its directors and officers against any losses, liabilities, costs, claims, actions, demands or expenses (including, but not limited to, all reasonable costs, legal fees, charges and expenses paid or incurred in disputing or defending any of the foregoing) which any of them may incur or which may be made against any of them as a result of or in connection with its appointment or the exercise of its powers and duties under this Agreement except such as may result from its own default, negligence or bad faith or that of its officers, directors or employees or the breach by it of the terms of this Agreement.
5.2 The Calculation Agent shall indemnify the Issuer and its directors and officers against any losses, liabilities, costs, claims, actions, demands or expenses (including, but not limited to, all reasonable costs, legal fees, charges and expenses paid or incurred in disputing or defending any of the foregoing) which the Issuer or any such director or officer may incur or which may be made against the Issuer or any such director or officer as a result of the breach by the Calculation Agent of the terms of this Agreement or its default, negligence or bad faith or that of its officers, directors or employees.
Conditions of Appointment
6.1 In acting hereunder and in connection with the Relevant Notes the Calculation Agent shall act as agent of the Issuer and shall not thereby assume any obligations towards or relationship of agency or trust for or with any of the owners or holders of the Relevant Notes or the receipts or coupons (if any) appertaining thereto (the and the , respectively).
Receipts
Coupons
6.2 In relation to each issue of Relevant Notes the Calculation Agent shall be obliged to perform such duties and only such duties as are herein and in the Conditions specifically set forth and no implied duties or obligations shall be read into this Agreement or the Conditions against the Calculation Agent, other than the duty to act honestly and in good faith and to exercise the diligence of a reasonably prudent expert in comparable circumstances.
6.3 The Calculation Agent may consult with legal and other professional advisers and the opinion of such advisers shall be full and complete protection in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the opinion of such advisers.
6.4 The Calculation Agent shall be protected and shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered in reliance upon any instruction, request or order from the Issuer or any notice, resolution, direction, consent, certificate, affidavit, statement, cable, telex or other paper or document which it reasonably believes to be genuine and to have been delivered, signed or sent by the proper party or parties or upon written instructions from the Issuer.
6.5 The Calculation Agent and any of its officers, directors and employees may become the owner of, or acquire any interest in, any Notes, Receipts or Coupons (if any) with the same rights that it or he would have if the Calculation Agent were not
Page 34
 
appointed hereunder, and may engage or be interested in any financial or other transaction with the Issuer and may act on, or as depositary, trustee or agent for, any committee or body of holders of Notes or Coupons (if any) or in connection with any other obligations of the Issuer as freely as if the Calculation Agent were not appointed hereunder.
Termination of Appointment
7.1 The Issuer may terminate the appointment of the Calculation Agent at any time by giving to the Calculation Agent at least 45 days' prior written notice to that effect, provided that, so long as any of the Relevant Notes is outstanding:
7.2 Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 7.1 above, if at any time:
7.3 The termination of the appointment pursuant to Clause 7.1 or 7.2 above of the Calculation Agent hereunder shall not entitle the Calculation Agent to any amount by way of compensation but shall be without prejudice to any amount then accrued due.
7.4 The Calculation Agent may resign its appointment hereunder at any time by giving to the Issuer at least 90 days' prior written notice to that effect. Following receipt of a notice of resignation from the Calculation Agent, the Issuer shall promptly give notice thereof to the holders of the Relevant Notes in accordance with the Conditions.
7.5 Notwithstanding the provisions of Clauses 7.1, 7.2 and 7.4 above, so long as any of the Relevant Notes is outstanding, the termination of the appointment of the
Page 35
 
Calculation Agent (whether by the Issuer or by the resignation of the Calculation Agent) shall not be effective unless upon the expiry of the relevant notice a successor Calculation Agent has, been appointed. The Issuer agrees with the Calculation Agent that if, by the day falling 10 days before the expiry of any notice under Clause 7.1 or 7.4, the Issuer has not appointed a replacement Calculation Agent, the Calculation Agent shall be entitled, on behalf of the Issuer, to appoint as a successor Calculation Agent in its place a reputable financial institution of good standing which the Issuer shall approve.
7.6 Upon its appointment becoming effective, a successor Calculation Agent shall without further act, deed or conveyance, become vested with all the authority, rights, powers, trusts, immunities, duties and obligations of such predecessor with like effect as if originally named as the Calculation Agent hereunder.
7.7 If the appointment of the Calculation Agent hereunder is terminated (whether by the Issuer or by the resignation of the Calculation Agent), the Calculation Agent shall on the date on which such termination takes effect deliver to the successor Calculation Agent all records concerning the Relevant Notes maintained by it (except such documents and records as it is obliged by law or regulation to retain or not to release), but shall have no other duties or responsibilities hereunder.
7.8 Any corporation into which the Calculation Agent may be merged or converted, or any corporation with which the Calculation Agent may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Calculation Agent shall be a party, or any corporation to which the Calculation Agent shall sell or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of its assets shall, on the date when such merger, consolidation or transfer becomes effective and to the extent permitted by any applicable laws, become the successor Calculation Agent under this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, unless otherwise required by the Issuer, and after the said effective date all references in this Agreement to the Calculation Agent shall be deemed to be references to such corporation. Written notice of any such merger, conversion, consolidation or transfer shall forthwith be given to the Issuer and the Agent.
7.9 Upon giving notice of the intended termination of the appointment of the Calculation Agent, the Issuer shall use all reasonable endeavours to appoint a further bank or investment bank as successor Calculation Agent.
Notices
8.1 Any notice or communication given hereunder shall be sufficiently given or served:
Page 36
 
Where a communication is received after business hours it shall be deemed to be received and become effective on the next business day. Every communication shall be irrevocable save in respect of any manifest error therein.
Descriptive headings and counterparts
9.1 The descriptive headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof.
9.2 This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement and any party may enter into this Agreement by executing a counterpart.
Governing law and jurisdiction
10.1 This Agreement is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of England.
10.2 The Issuer hereby irrevocably agrees, for the exclusive benefit of the Calculation Agent, that the courts of England are to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement and that accordingly any suit, action or proceedings (together referred to as ) arising out of or in connection with this Agreement may be brought in such courts. The Issuer hereby irrevocably waives any objection which it may have now or hereafter to the laying of the venue of any such Proceedings in any such court and any claim that any such Proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum and hereby further irrevocably agrees that a judgment in any such Proceedings brought in the English courts shall be conclusive and binding upon it and may be enforced in the courts of any other jurisdiction. Nothing contained in this Clause shall limit any right to take Proceedings against the Issuer in any other court of competent jurisdiction, nor shall the taking of Proceedings in one or more jurisdictions preclude the taking of Proceedings in any other jurisdiction, whether concurrently or not. The Issuer hereby appoints PepsiCo International Limited at its registered office at 63 Kew Road, Richmond, Surrey, England TW9 2QL (Attention: Division Counsel) as its agent for service of process, and undertakes that, in the event of PepsiCo International Limited ceasing so to act or ceasing to be registered in England, it will appoint another person, as the Calculation Agent may approve, as its agent for the service of process in England in respect of any Proceedings. Nothing herein shall affect the right to serve process in any manner permitted by law.
Proceedings
Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999
11. A person who is not a party to this Agreement shall have no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any of its terms.
Page 37
 
whereof this Agreement has been entered into the day and year first above written.
In Witness
Page 38
 
Page 39
 
PepsiCo, Inc. 700 Anderson Hill Road Purchase New York 10577 U.S.A
Telex No: 62848 PEPSICO Telefax No: 914 253 2017 Attention: Treasurer
By:
[Name and address of Calculation Agent]
Page 40
 
This Note is one of a series of Notes issued by PepsiCo, Inc. (the "Issuer") pursuant to the Agency Agreement (as defined below). References herein to the "Notes" shall be references to the Notes of this Series (as defined below) and shall mean (i) in relation to any Notes represented by a global Note, units of the lowest Specified Denomination in the Specified Currency, (ii) definitive Notes issued in exchange (or part exchange) for a global Note and (iii) any global Note. The Notes, the Receipts (as defined below) and the Coupons (as defined below) also have the benefit of an Amended and Restated Agency Agreement (the "Agency Agreement" which expression shall include such agreement as it may be amended or modified from time to time) dated 5 August, 2008, and made among the Issuer, The Bank of New York Mellon as issuing and principal paying agent and agent bank (the "Agent", which expression shall include any successor agent specified in the applicable Final Terms) and the other paying agents named therein (together with the Agent, the "Paying Agents", which expression shall include any additional or successor paying agents).
Interest bearing definitive Notes (unless otherwise indicated in the applicable Final Terms) have interest coupons ("Coupons") and, if indicated in the applicable Final Terms, talons for further Coupons ("Talons") attached on issue. Any reference herein to Coupons or coupons shall, unless the context otherwise requires, be deemed to include a reference to Talons or talons. Definitive Notes repayable in instalments have receipts ("Receipts") for the payment of the instalments of principal (other than the final instalment) attached on issue.
The Final Terms for this Note (or the relevant provisions thereof) are set out in Part A of the Final Terms attached hereto or endorsed hereon which supplement these Terms and Conditions and may specify other terms and conditions which shall, to the extent so specified or to the extent inconsistent with these Terms and Conditions, replace or modify these Terms and Conditions for the purposes of this Note. References herein to the "applicable Final Terms" are to Part A of the Final Terms (or the relevant provisions thereof) attached hereto or endorsed hereon.
Any reference herein to "Noteholders" shall mean the holders of the Notes, and shall, in relation to any Notes represented by a global Note, be construed as provided below. Any reference herein to "Receiptholders" shall mean the holders of the Receipts and any reference herein to "Couponholders" shall mean the holders of the Coupons, and shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include the holders of the Talons.
As used herein, "Tranche" means Notes which are identical in all respects (including as to listing) and "Series" means a Tranche of Notes together with any further Tranche or Tranches of Notes which are (i) expressed to be consolidated and form a single series and (ii) identical in all respects (including as to listing and admission to trading) except for their respective Issue Dates, Interest Commencement Dates and/or Issue Prices.
The Noteholders, the Receiptholders and the Couponholders are entitled to the benefit of an Amended and Restated Deed of Covenant (the "Deed of Covenant") dated 5
Page 41
 
August, 2008 and made by the Issuer. The original of the Deed of Covenant is held by a common depositary on behalf of Euroclear (as defined below) and Clearstream, Luxembourg (as defined below).
Copies of the Agency Agreement, the form of the Final Terms and the Final Terms applicable to this Note and the Deed of Covenant are available for viewing during normal business hours at, and copies may be obtained from, the specified office of each of the Agent and the other Paying Agents save that Final Terms relating to an unlisted Note of any Series and/or relating to a Note which is neither admitted to trading on a regulated market in the European Economic Area nor offered in the European Economic Area in circumstances where a Prospectus is required to be published under the Prospectus Directive, will only be available for inspection by a Noteholder holding one or more unlisted Notes of that Series and such Noteholder must produce evidence satisfactory to the relevant Paying Agent as to identity. The Noteholders, the Receiptholders and the Couponholders are deemed to have notice of, and are entitled to the benefit of, all the provisions of the Deed of Covenant, the Agency Agreement and the applicable Final Terms which are binding on them.
Words and expressions defined in the Agency Agreement or used in the applicable Final Terms shall have the same meanings where used in these Terms and Conditions unless the context otherwise requires or unless otherwise stated and provided that, in the event of inconsistency between the Agency Agreement and the applicable Final Terms, the applicable Final Terms will prevail.
The Notes are in bearer form and, in the case of definitive Notes, serially numbered, in the Specified Currency and the Specified Denomination. Notes of one Specified Denomination may not be exchanged for Notes of another Specified Denomination. In the case of any Notes which are to be admitted to trading on a regulated market within the European Economic Area or offered to the public in a Member State of the European Economic Area in circumstances which require the publication of a Prospectus under the Prospectus Directive, the minimum Specified Denomination shall be 50,000 (or its equivalent in any other currency as at the date of issue of the relevant Notes). In the case of Notes with a maturity (at issue) of 183 days or less, the minimum Specified Denomination shall be U.S.$500,000 (or its equivalent in any other currency as at the date of issue of the relevant Notes).
So long as the Notes are represented by a temporary global Note or a permanent global Note, the Notes shall be tradeable only in principal amounts of at least the Specified Denomination.
This Note is a Fixed Rate Note, a Floating Rate Note, a Zero Coupon Note, an Indexed Interest Note, an Indexed Redemption Amount Note, a Dual Currency Note or a Partly Paid Note or a combination of any of the foregoing, depending upon the Interest/Payment Basis shown in the applicable Final Terms.
Notes in definitive form are issued with Coupons attached, unless they are Zero Coupon Notes in which case references to Coupons and Couponholders in these Terms and Conditions are not applicable.
Page 42
 
Subject as set out below, title to the Notes, Receipts and Coupons will pass by delivery. The Issuer and any Paying Agent may deem and treat the bearer of any Note, Receipt or Coupon as the absolute owner thereof (whether or not overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon or notice of any previous loss or theft thereof) for all purposes but, in the case of any global Note, without prejudice to the provisions set out in the next succeeding paragraph.
For so long as any of the Notes is represented by a global Note held on behalf of Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. ("Euroclear") and/or Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme ("Clearstream, Luxembourg"), each person (other than Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg) who is for the time being shown in the records of Euroclear or of Clearstream, Luxembourg as the holder of a particular nominal amount of such Notes (in which regard any certificate or other document issued by Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg as to the nominal amount of such Notes standing to the account of any person shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes save in the case of manifest error) shall be treated by the Issuer and any Paying Agent as the holder of such nominal amount of such Notes for all purposes other than with respect to the payment of principal or interest on the Notes, for which purpose the bearer of the relevant global Note shall be treated by the Issuer and any Paying Agent as the holder of such Notes in accordance with and subject to the terms of the relevant global Note (and the expressions "Noteholder" and "holder of Notes" and related expressions shall be construed accordingly). Notes which are represented by a global Note will be transferable only in accordance with the rules and procedures for the time being of Euroclear or of Clearstream, Luxembourg, as the case may be.
References to Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg shall, whenever the context so permits, except in relation to Notes in NGN form, be deemed to include a reference to any additional or alternative clearing system approved by the Issuer and the Agent.
The Notes and the relative Receipts and Coupons are direct, unconditional, unsubordinated and (subject to the provisions of Condition 3) unsecured obligations of the Issuer and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves and equally with all other outstanding unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer, present and future, but, in the event of insolvency, only to the extent permitted by applicable laws relating to creditors' rights.
For so long as Notes of any Series shall be outstanding neither the Issuer nor any Restricted Subsidiary (as defined below) will incur, suffer to exist or guarantee any indebtedness for borrowed money ("Debt"), secured by a mortgage, pledge or lien (a "Mortgage") on any Principal Property (as defined below) or on any shares of stock of any Restricted Subsidiary unless the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary secures or causes such Restricted Subsidiary to secure the Notes of such Series (and any other Debt of the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary, at the option of the Issuer or such Restricted Subsidiary, not subordinate to the Notes) equally and rateably with or prior
Page 43
 
to such secured Debt for as long as such Debt remains so secured, unless after giving effect thereto the aggregate amount of all such secured Debt does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets (as defined below). This restriction will not, however, apply to Debt secured by:
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the total amount of assets (less applicable depreciation, amortisation, and other valuation reserves) of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, after deducting therefrom (i) all current liabilities of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (excluding any such liabilities that are intercompany items) and (ii) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortised debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, all as set forth on the latest consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
"Principal Property" means any single manufacturing or processing plant, office building, or warehouse owned or leased by the Issuer or a Restricted Subsidiary other than a plant, warehouse, office building, or portion thereof which, in the opinion of the Issuer's Board of Directors, is not of material importance to the business conducted by the Issuer and its Restricted Subsidiaries as an entirety.
"Restricted Subsidiary" means at any time any subsidiary of the Issuer except a subsidiary which is at the time an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
"Unrestricted Subsidiary" means any other subsidiary of the Issuer (not at the time designated a Restricted Subsidiary) (i) the major part of whose business consists of finance, banking, credit, leasing, insurance, financial services, or other similar operations, or any combination thereof, (ii) substantially all the assets of which
Page 44
 
consist of the capital stock of one or more such subsidiaries, or (iii) designated as such by the Issuer's Board of Directors; provided that such designation will not constitute a violation of the terms of the Notes. Any subsidiary designated as a Restricted Subsidiary may be designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary unless such designation will constitute a violation of these Terms and Conditions.
The transfer of a Principal Property to an Unrestricted Subsidiary and the change in designation of a subsidiary owning a Principal Property from a Restricted Subsidiary to an Unrestricted Subsidiary is not restricted by the terms of the Notes, save that such a change in designation shall not be permitted if such change in designation would result in a violation of the foregoing negative pledge provision.
Each Fixed Rate Note bears interest from (and including) the Interest Commencement Date at the rate(s) per annum equal to the Rate(s) of Interest specified in the applicable Final Terms. Interest will be payable in arrear on the Interest Payment Date(s) in each year up to, but excluding, the Maturity Date so specified if that does not fall on an Interest Payment Date.
If the Notes are in definitive form, except as provided in the applicable Final Terms, the amount of interest payable on each Interest Payment Date in respect of the Fixed Interest Period ending on (but excluding) such date will amount to the Fixed Coupon Amount. Payments of interest on any Interest Payment Date will, if so specified in the applicable Final Terms, amount to the Broken Amount so specified.
As used in these Terms and Conditions, "Fixed Interest Period" means the period from (and including) an Interest Payment Date (or the Interest Commencement Date) to (but excluding) the next (or first) Interest Payment Date.
Except in the case of Notes in definitive form where an applicable Fixed Coupon Amount or Broken Amount is specified in the applicable Final Terms, interest shall be calculated in respect of any period by applying the Rate of Interest to:
(A) in the case of Fixed Rate Notes which are represented by a Global Note, the aggregate outstanding nominal amount of the Fixed Rate Notes represented by such Global Note (or, if they are Partly Paid Notes, the aggregate amount paid up); or
(B) in the case of Fixed Rate Notes in definitive form, the Calculation Amount specified in the applicable Final Terms;
and, in each case, multiplying such sum by the applicable Day Count Fraction, and rounding the resultant figure to the nearest sub-unit of the relevant Specified Currency, half of any such sub-unit being rounded upwards or otherwise in accordance with applicable market convention.
Page 45
 
In these Terms and Conditions:
"Day Count Fraction" means, in respect of the calculation of an amount of interest in accordance with this Condition 4(a):
"Determination Period" means, the period from (and including) a Determination Date to (but excluding) the next Determination Date (including, where either the Interest Commencement Date or the final Interest Payment Date is not a Determination Date, the period commencing on the first Determination Date prior to, and ending on the first Determination Date following after, such date); and
Page 46
 
"sub-unit" means, with respect to any currency other than euro, the lowest amount of such currency that is available as legal tender in the country of such currency and means, with respect to euro, one cent.
Each Floating Rate Note and Indexed Interest Note bears interest from (and including) the Interest Commencement Date and such interest will be payable in arrear on either:
If a business day convention is specified in the applicable Final Terms and (x) if there is no numerically corresponding day on the calendar month in which an Interest Payment Date should occur or (y) if any Interest Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day which is not a Business Day, then, if the business day convention specified is:
Page 47
 
In this Condition, "Business Day" means a day which is both:
The Rate of Interest payable from time to time in respect of Floating Rate Notes and Indexed Interest Notes will be determined in the manner specified in the applicable Final Terms.
Where ISDA Determination is specified in the applicable Final Terms as the manner in which the Rate of Interest is to be determined, the Rate of Interest for each Interest Period will be the relevant ISDA Rate plus or minus (as indicated in the applicable Final Terms) the Margin (if any). For the purposes of this sub-paragraph (A), "ISDA Rate" for an Interest Period means a rate equal to the Floating Rate that would be determined by the Agent or other person specified in the applicable Final Terms under an interest rate swap transaction if the Agent or that other person were acting as Calculation Agent for that swap transaction under the terms of an agreement incorporating the 2006 ISDA Definitions, each as amended and updated as at the Issue Date of the first Tranche of the Notes, published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (the "ISDA Definitions") and under which:
Page 48
 
For the purposes of this sub-paragraph (A), "Floating Rate", "Calculation Agent", "Floating Rate Option", "Designated Maturity" and "Reset Date" have the meanings given to those terms in the ISDA Definitions.
When this sub-paragraph (A) applies, in respect of each relevant Interest Period the Agent will be deemed to have discharged its obligations under Condition 5(b)(iv) in respect of the determination of the Rate of Interest if it has determined the Rate of Interest in respect of such Interest Period in the manner provided in this sub-paragraph (A).
Where Screen Rate Determination is specified in the applicable Final Terms as the manner in which the Rate of Interest is to be determined for each Interest Period the Rate of Interest for each Interest Period will, subject as provided below, be either:
(expressed as a percentage rate per annum) for the Reference Rate which appears or appear, as the case may be, on the Relevant Screen Page as at 11.00 a.m. (London time, in the case of LIBOR, or Brussels time, in the case of EURIBOR) on the Interest Determination Date in question plus or minus (as indicated in the applicable Final Terms) the Margin (if any), all as determined by the Agent. If five or more such offered quotations are available on the Relevant Screen Page, the highest (or, if there is more than one such highest quotation, one only of such quotations) and the lowest (or, if there is more than one such lowest quotation, one only of such quotations) shall be disregarded by the Agent for the purpose of determining the arithmetic mean (rounded as provided above) of such offered quotations.
The Agency Agreement contains provisions for determining the Rate of Interest in the event that the Relevant Screen Page is not available or if, in the case of (1) above, no such quotation appears or, in the case of (2) above, fewer than three such offered quotations appear, in each case as at the time specified in the preceding paragraph.
If the Reference Rate from time to time in respect of Floating Rate Notes is specified in the applicable Final Terms as being other than LIBOR or EURIBOR, the Rate of Interest in respect of such Notes will be determined as provided in the applicable Final Terms.
Page 49
 
If the applicable Final Terms specifies a Minimum Rate of Interest for any Interest Period, then, in the event that the Rate of Interest in respect of such Interest Period determined in accordance with the above provisions is less than such Minimum Rate of Interest, the Rate of Interest for such Interest Period shall be such Minimum Rate of Interest. If the applicable Final Terms specifies a Maximum Rate of Interest for any Interest Period, then, in the event that the Rate of Interest in respect of such Interest Period determined in accordance with the above provisions is greater than such Maximum Rate of Interest, the Rate of Interest for such Interest Period shall be such Maximum Interest Rate.
The Agent, in the case of Floating Rate Notes, and the Calculation Agent, in the case of Indexed Interest Notes, will, at or as soon as practicable after each time at which the Rate of Interest is to be determined, determine the Rate of Interest for the relevant Interest Period Subject to any Minimum Rate of Interest or Maximum Rate of Interest specified in the applicable Final Terms. In the case of Indexed Interest Notes, the Calculation Agent will notify the Agent of the Rate of Interest for the relevant Interest Period as soon as practicable after calculating the same.
The Agent will calculate the amount of interest (the "Interest Amount") payable on the Floating Rate Notes or Index Linked Interest Notes for the relevant Interest Period by applying the Rate of Interest to:
and, in each case, multiplying such sum by the applicable Day Count Fraction, and rounding the resultant figure to the nearest sub-unit of the relevant Specified Currency, half of any such sub-unit being rounded upwards or otherwise in accordance with applicable market convention.
"Day Count Fraction" means, in respect of the calculation of an amount of interest for any Interest Period:
(i) if "Actual/Actual (ISDA)" is specified in the applicable Final Terms, the actual number of days in the Interest Period divided by 365 (or, if any portion of that Interest Period falls in a leap year, the sum of (A) the actual number of days in that portion of the Interest Period falling in a leap year divided by 366 and (B) the actual number of days in that portion of the Interest Period falling in a non-leap year divided by 365);
Page 50
 
(ii) if "Actual/365 (Fixed)" is specified in the applicable Final Terms, the actual number of days in the Interest Period divided by 365;
(iii) if "Actual/360" is specified in the applicable Final Terms, the actual number of days in the Interest Period divided by 360;
(iv) if "30/360", "360/360" or "Bond Basis" is specified in the applicable Final Terms, the number of days in the Interest Period divided by 360, calculated on a formula basis as follows:
where:
"Y1" is the year, expressed as a number, in which the first day of the Interest Period falls;
"Y2" is the year, expressed as a number, in which the day immediately following the last day of the Interest Period falls;
"M1" is the calendar month, expressed as a number, in which the first day of the Interest Period falls;
"M2" is the calendar month, expressed as a number, in which the day immediately following the last day of the Interest Period falls;
"D1" is the first calendar day, expressed as a number, of the Interest Period, unless such number is 31, in which case D1 will be 30; and
"D2" is the calendar day, expressed as a number, immediately following the last day included in the Interest Period, unless such number would be 31 and D1 is greater than 29, in which case D2 will be 30;
where:
"Y1" is the year, expressed as a number, in which the first day of the Interest Period falls;
"Y2" is the year, expressed as a number, in which the day immediately following the last day of the Interest Period falls;
Page 51
 
"M1" is the calendar month, expressed as a number, in which the first day of the Interest Period falls;
"M2" is the calendar month, expressed as a number, in which the day immediately following the last day of the Interest Period falls;
"D1" is the first calendar day, expressed as a number, of the Interest Period, unless such number would be 31, in which case D1 will be 30; and
"D2" is the calendar day, expressed as a number, immediately following the last day included in the Interest Period, unless such number would be 31, in which case D2 will be 30;
The Agent will cause the Rate of Interest and each Interest Amount for each Interest Period and the relevant Interest Payment Date to be notified to the Issuer and any stock exchange on which the relevant Floating Rate Notes or Indexed Interest Notes are for the time being listed and notice thereof to be published in accordance with Condition 13 as soon as possible after their determination but in no event later than the fourth business day in London thereafter. Each Interest Amount and Interest Payment Date so notified may subsequently be amended (or appropriate alternative arrangements made by way of adjustment) without prior notice in the event of an extension or shortening of the Interest Period. Any such amendment will be promptly notified to each stock exchange on which the relevant Floating Rate Notes or Indexed Interest Notes are for the time being listed and to the Noteholders in accordance with Condition 13.
All certificates, communications, opinions, determinations, calculations, quotations and decisions given, expressed, made or obtained for the purposes of the provisions of this Condition 4(b), whether by the Agent or, if applicable, the Calculation Agent, shall (in the absence of negligence, wilful misconduct, bad faith or manifest error) be binding on the Issuer, the Agent, the Calculation Agent (if applicable), the other Paying Agents and all Noteholders, Receiptholders and Couponholders and (in the absence as aforesaid) no liability to the Issuer, the Noteholders, the Receiptholders or the Couponholders shall attach to the Agent or the Calculation Agent (if applicable) in connection with the exercise or non-exercise by it of its powers, duties and discretions pursuant to such provisions.
In the case of Dual Currency Notes, if the rate or amount of interest falls to be determined by reference to an exchange rate, the rate or amount of interest payable shall be determined in the manner specified in the applicable Final Terms.
Page 52
 
In the case of Partly Paid Notes (other than Partly Paid Notes which are Zero Coupon Notes), interest will accrue as aforesaid on the paid-up nominal amount of such Notes and otherwise as specified in the applicable Final Terms.
Each Note (or in the case of the redemption of part only of a Note, that part only of such Note) will cease to bear interest (if any) from the date for its redemption unless, upon due presentation thereof, payment of principal is improperly withheld or refused. In such event, interest will continue to accrue until whichever is the earlier of:
(1) the date on which all amounts due in respect of such Note have been paid; and
(2) five days after the date on which the full amount of the moneys payable has been received by the Agent and notice to that effect has been given in accordance with Condition 13 or individually.
Payments will be subject in all cases to any fiscal or other laws and regulations applicable thereto in the place of payment, but without prejudice to the provisions of Condition 7.
Subject to the final paragraph of Condition 5(b) below, no payment on any Note or Coupon will be made at any office of a Paying Agent or any other agency maintained by the Issuer in the United States (as defined in Condition 7) nor will any payment be made by any transfer to an account in, or by mail to an address in, the United States.
Page 53
 
Payments of principal in respect of definitive Notes will (subject as provided below) be made in the manner provided in paragraph (a) above only against surrender of Receipts and definitive Notes, and payments of interest in respect of definitive Notes will (subject as provided below) be made as aforesaid only against surrender of Coupons, in each case at the specified office of any Paying Agent outside the United States.
Payments of instalments of principal (if any), other than the final instalment, will (subject as provided below) be made in the manner provided in paragraph (a) above against surrender of the relevant Receipt. Payment of the final instalment will be made in the manner provided in paragraph (a) above only against surrender of the relevant Note. Each Receipt must be presented for payment of the relevant instalment together with the definitive Note to which it appertains. Receipts presented without the definitive Note to which they appertain do not constitute valid obligations of the Issuer. Upon the date on which any definitive Note becomes due and repayable, unmatured Receipts (if any) relating thereto (whether or not attached) shall become void and no payment shall be made in respect thereof.
Fixed Rate Notes in definitive form (other than Dual Currency Notes or Indexed Redemption Amount Notes) should be presented for payment together with all unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto (which expression shall for this purpose include Coupons falling to be issued on exchange of mature Talons), failing which the amount of any missing unmatured Coupon (or, in the case of payment not being made in full, the same proportion of the amount of such missing unmatured Coupon as the sum so paid bears to the sum due) will be deducted from the sum due for payment. Each amount of principal so deducted will be paid in the manner mentioned above against surrender of the relative missing Coupon at any time before the expiry of 10 years after the Relevant Date (as defined in Condition 7) in respect of such principal (whether or not such Coupon would otherwise have become void under Condition 8) or, if later, five years from the date on which such Coupon would otherwise have become due, but in no event thereafter.
Upon any Fixed Rate Note becoming due and repayable prior to its Maturity Date, all unmatured Talons (if any) appertaining thereto will become void and no further Coupons will be issued in respect thereof.
Upon the date on which any Floating Rate Note, Dual Currency Note or Indexed Note in definitive form becomes due and repayable, unmatured Coupons and Talons (if any) relating thereto (whether or not attached) shall become void and no payment or, as the case may be, exchange for further Coupons shall be made in respect thereof.
If the due date for redemption of any definitive Note is not an Interest Payment Date, interest (if any) accrued in respect of such Note from (and including) the preceding Interest Payment Date or, as the case may be, the Interest Commencement Date shall be payable only against surrender of the relevant definitive Note.
Payments of principal and interest (if any) in respect of Notes represented by any global Note will (subject as provided below) be made in the manner specified above
Page 54
 
in relation to definitive Notes and otherwise in the manner specified in the relevant global Note against presentation or surrender, as the case may be, of such global Note at the specified office of any Paying Agent outside the United States. A record of each payment made against presentation or surrender of such global Note, distinguishing between any payment of principal and any payment of interest, will be made on such global Note by such Paying Agent and such record shall be prima facie evidence that the payment in question has been made.
The holder of a global Note shall be the only person entitled to receive payments in respect of Notes represented by such global Note and the Issuer will be discharged by payment to, or to the order of, the holder of such global Note in respect of each amount so paid. Each of the persons shown in the records of Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg as the beneficial holder of a particular nominal amount of Notes represented by such global Note must look solely to Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg, as the case may be, for his share of each payment so made by the Issuer to, or to the order of, the holder of such global Note. No person other than the holder of such global Note shall have any claim against the Issuer in respect of any payments due on that global Note.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, U.S. dollar payments of principal and interest in respect of the Notes will be made at the specified office of a Paying Agent in the United States if:
If the date for payment of any amount in respect of any Note, Receipt or Coupon is not a Payment Day, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to payment until the next following Payment Day in the relevant place and shall not be entitled to further interest or other payment in respect of such delay. For these purposes, "Payment Day" means any day which is both:
Page 55
 
Any reference in these Terms and Conditions to principal in respect of the Notes shall be deemed to include, as applicable:
Any reference in these Terms and Conditions to interest in respect of the Notes shall be deemed to include, as applicable, any additional amounts which may be payable with respect to interest under Condition 7.
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled as specified below, each Note will be redeemed by the Issuer at its Final Redemption Amount specified in, or determined in the manner specified in, the applicable Final Terms in the relevant Specified Currency on the Maturity Date.
Page 56
 
which change, amendment, action, decision, memorandum, letter ruling or pronouncement becomes effective or issued on or after the Issue Date of the first Tranche of the Notes (such laws, regulations, rulings, actions, decisions, memoranda, letter rulings or pronouncements being hereinafter collectively referred to as "United States Law"), there is a substantial likelihood that the Issuer on the occasion of the next payment due in respect of the Notes (in accordance with Condition 5) will be required to pay any additional amounts (as defined in Condition 7, the "Additional Amounts"), and such obligation cannot be avoided by the Issuer taking, in the view of the Issuer, reasonable measures available to it that require no material cost to the Issuer, the Issuer may at its option redeem such Notes in whole, but not in part, at any time (in the case of Notes other than Floating Rate Notes or Indexed Interest Notes) or on any Interest Payment Date (in the case of Floating Rate Notes or Indexed Interest Notes). Notice of such redemption of the Notes will be given to the holders of the Notes not more than 60 nor less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for redemption by publication in accordance with Condition 13.
If the Issuer is specified in the applicable Final Terms as having an option to redeem, the Issuer may, having given:
(which notices shall be irrevocable), redeem all or some only of the Notes then outstanding on the Optional Redemption Date(s) and at the Optional Redemption Amount(s) specified in, or determined in the manner specified in, the applicable Final Terms together, if appropriate, with interest accrued to (but excluding) the Optional Redemption Date(s). Any such redemption must be of a nominal amount equal to the Minimum Redemption Amount or a Higher Redemption Amount, both as indicated in the applicable Final Terms. In the case of a partial redemption of Notes, the Notes to be redeemed ("Redeemed Notes") will be selected individually by lot, in the case of Redeemed Notes represented by definitive Notes, and in accordance with the rules of Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg (to be reflected in the records of
Page 57
 
Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg as either a pool factor or a reduction in nominal amount, at their discretion), in the case of Redeemed Notes represented by a global Note, not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption (such date of selection being hereinafter called the "Selection Date"). In the case of Redeemed Notes represented by definitive Notes, a list of the serial numbers of such Redeemed Notes will be published in accordance with Condition 13 not less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. No exchange of the relevant global Note will be permitted during the period from (and including) the Selection Date to (and including) the date fixed for redemption pursuant to this sub-paragraph (c) and notice to that effect shall be given by the Issuer to the Noteholders in accordance with Condition 13 at least 10 days prior to the Selection Date.
If the Noteholders are specified in the applicable Final Terms as having an option to redeem, upon the holder of any Note giving to the Issuer in accordance with Condition 13 not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice (which notice shall be irrevocable) or such other period of notice as is specified in the applicable Final Terms, the Issuer will upon the expiry of such notice redeem, subject to, and in accordance with, the terms specified in the applicable Final Terms, in whole (but not in part), such Note on the Optional Redemption Date and at the Optional Redemption Amount specified in, or determined in the manner specified in, the applicable Final Terms together, if appropriate, with interest accrued to (but excluding) the Optional Redemption Date. It may be that before an Investor Put can be exercised, certain conditions and/or circumstances will need to be satisfied. Where relevant, the provisions will be set out in the applicable Final Terms.
If the Note is in definitive form, to exercise the right to require redemption of the Note the holder of the Note must deliver such Note at the specified office outside the United States of any Paying Agent at any time during normal business hours of such Paying Agent falling within the notice period, accompanied by a duly completed and signed notice of exercise in the form (for the time being current) obtainable from any specified office of any Paying Agent (a "Put Notice") and in which the holder must specify a bank account (or, if payment is by cheque, an address) to which payment is to be made under this Condition.
Any Put Notice given by a holder of any Note pursuant to this sub-paragraph (d) shall be irrevocable except where prior to the due date of redemption an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing in which event such holder, at its option, may elect by notice to the Issuer to withdraw the notice given pursuant to this paragraph and instead to declare such Note forthwith due and payable pursuant to Condition 9.
For the purpose of paragraph (b) above and Condition 9, the Notes will be redeemed at the Early Redemption Amount calculated as follows:
(i) in the case of Notes with a Final Redemption Amount equal to the Issue Price, at the Final Redemption Amount thereof; or
Page 58
 
(ii) in the case of Notes (other than Zero Coupon Notes but including Instalment Notes and Partly Paid Notes) with a Final Redemption Amount which is or may be less or greater than the Issue Price or which is payable in a Specified Currency other than that in which the Notes are denominated, at the amount specified in, or determined in the manner specified in, the applicable Final Terms or, if no such amount or manner is so specified in the Final Terms, at their nominal amount; or
(iii) in the case of Zero Coupon Notes, at an amount (the "Amortised Face Amount") equal to the product of:
Where such calculation is to be made for a period which is not a whole number of years, it shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of 12 months of 30 days each and, in the case of an incomplete month, the actual number of days elapsed or such other calculation basis as may be specified in the applicable Final Terms.
If the Notes are repayable in instalments, they will be redeemed in the Instalment Amounts and on the Instalment Dates. In the case of early redemption, the Early Redemption Amount will be determined pursuant to paragraph (e) above.
If the Notes are Partly Paid Notes, they will be redeemed, whether at maturity, early redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the provisions of this Condition and the applicable Final Terms.
The Issuer or any of its subsidiaries may at any time purchase Notes (provided that, in the case of definitive Notes, all unmatured Receipts, Coupons and Talons appertaining thereto are purchased therewith) at any price in the open market or otherwise. Such Notes may be held, reissued, resold or, at the option of the Issuer, surrendered to any Paying Agent for cancellation.
Page 59
 
All Notes which are redeemed will forthwith be cancelled (together with all unmatured Receipts and Coupons attached thereto or surrendered therewith at the time of redemption). All Notes so cancelled and the Notes purchased and cancelled pursuant to sub-paragraph (h) above (together with all unmatured Receipts and Coupons cancelled therewith) shall be forwarded to the Agent and cannot be reissued or resold.
If the amount payable in respect of any Zero Coupon Note upon redemption of such Zero Coupon Note pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) above or upon its becoming due and repayable as provided in Condition 9 is improperly withheld or refused, the amount due and repayable in respect of such Zero Coupon Note shall be the amount calculated as provided in sub-paragraph (e) (iii) above as though the references therein to the date fixed for the redemption or the date upon which such Zero Coupon Note becomes due and payable were replaced by references to the date which is the earlier of:
The Issuer will, subject to the exceptions and limitations set forth below, pay such Additional Amounts as are necessary in order that the net payment by the Issuer or any Paying Agent of the principal of and interest (made in accordance with Condition 5) (including any discount) on a Note or Coupon to a holder who is a United States Alien (as such term is defined below), after deduction or withholding for or on account of any present or future tax, assessment or governmental charge of the United States (as such term is defined below), or a political subdivision or authority thereof or therein, imposed by withholding with respect to the payment, will not be less than the amount provided for in such Note or such Coupon to be then due and payable; provided, however, that the foregoing obligation to pay Additional Amounts shall not apply to:
Page 60
 
Page 61
 
As used with this Condition, "United States" means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and each possession of the United States of America and place subject to its jurisdiction and "United States Alien" means any person that is for United States federal income tax purposes (A) a foreign corporation, (B) a foreign partnership one or more of the members of which is, for United States federal income tax purposes, a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual or a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust, (C) a non-resident alien individual or (D) a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust.
As used herein, the "Relevant Date" means the date on which such payment first becomes due, except that, if the full amount of the moneys payable has not been duly received by the Agent on or prior to such due date, it means the date on which the full amount of such moneys having been so received, notice to that effect is duly given to the Noteholders in accordance with Condition 13.
The Notes, Receipts and Coupons will become void unless presented for payment within a period of 10 years (in the case of principal) and five years (in the case of interest) after the Relevant Date (as defined in Condition 7) therefor.
There shall not be included in any Coupon sheet issued on exchange of a Talon any Coupon the claim for payment in respect of which would be void pursuant to this Condition or Condition 5(b) or any Talon which would be void pursuant to Condition 5(b).
If any one or more of the following events (each an "Event of Default") shall have occurred and be continuing:
Page 62
 
then any Noteholder may, by written notice to the Issuer at the specified office of the Agent, effective upon the date of receipt thereof by the Agent, declare the Note held by the holder to be forthwith due and payable whereupon the same shall become forthwith due and payable at the Early Redemption Amount (as defined in Condition
Page 63
 
6(e)), together with accrued interest (if any) to the date of repayment, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind.
A default under any indebtedness of the Issuer other than the Notes will not constitute an Event of Default, and a default under one Series of Notes will not constitute a default under any other Series of Notes. No declaration of acceleration by the Noteholders with respect to any Series of Notes shall constitute a declaration of acceleration with respect to any other Series of Notes.
Should any Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon be lost, stolen, mutilated, defaced or destroyed, it may be replaced at the specified office of the Replacement Agent upon payment by the claimant of such costs and expenses as may be incurred in connection therewith and on such terms as to evidence and indemnity as the Issuer may reasonably require. Mutilated or defaced Notes, Receipts, Coupons or Talons must be surrendered before replacements will be issued.
The names of the initial Agent and the other initial Paying Agents and their initial specified offices are set out below.
The Issuer is entitled to vary or terminate the appointment of any Paying Agent and/or additional or other Paying Agents and/or approve any change in the specified office through which any Paying Agent acts, provided that:
In addition, the Issuer shall forthwith appoint a Paying Agent having a specified office in New York City in the circumstances described in the final paragraph of Condition 5(b). Any variation, termination, appointment or change shall only take effect (other than in the case of insolvency, when it shall be of immediate effect) after not less than 30 nor more than 45 days' prior notice thereof shall have been given to the Noteholders in accordance with Condition 13.
Page 64
 
On and after the Fixed Interest Date or the Interest Payment Date, as appropriate, on which the final Coupon comprised in any Coupon sheet matures, the Talon (if any) forming part of such Coupon sheet may be surrendered at the specified office of the Agent or any other Paying Agent in exchange for a further Coupon sheet including (if such further Coupon sheet does not include Coupons to (and including) the final date for the payment of interest due in respect of the Note to which it appertains) a further Talon, subject to the provisions of Condition 8. Each Talon shall, for the purposes of these Terms and Conditions, be deemed to mature on the Fixed Interest Date or the Interest Payment Date (as the case may be) on which the final Coupon comprised in the relative Coupon sheet matures.
All notices regarding the Notes shall be published in a leading English language daily newspaper of general circulation in London. It is expected that such publication will be made in the Financial Times in London. The Issuer shall also ensure that notices are duly published in a manner which complies with the rules and regulations of any stock exchange (or other relevant authority) on which the Notes are for the time being listed or by which they have been admitted to trading. Any such notice will be deemed to have been given on the date of the first publication in both such newspapers.
Until such time as any definitive Notes are issued, there may (provided that, in the case of Notes listed on a stock exchange, the stock exchange agrees), so long as the global Note(s) is or are held in its/their entirety on behalf of Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg, be substituted for such publication in such newspaper(s) the delivery of the relevant notice to Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg for communication by them to the holders of the Notes. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given to the holders of the Notes on the seventh day after the day on which said notice was given to Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg.
Notices to be given by any holder of the Notes shall be in writing and given by lodging the same, together with the relative Note or Notes, with the Agent. Whilst any of the Notes are represented by a global Note, such notice may be given by any holder of a Note to the Agent via Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg, as the case may be, in such manner as the Agent and Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg, as the case may be, may approve for this purpose.
The Agency Agreement contains provisions for convening meetings of the Noteholders to consider any matter affecting their interests, including the sanctioning by Extraordinary Resolution of a modification of the Notes, the Receipts, the Coupons or any of the provisions of the Agency Agreement. Such a meeting may be convened by the Issuer or Noteholders holding not less than five per cent. in nominal amount of the Notes for the time being remaining outstanding. The quorum at any such meeting for passing an Extraordinary Resolution is one or more persons holding or representing not less than 50 per cent. in nominal amount of the Notes for the time
Page 65
 
being outstanding, or at any adjourned meeting one or more persons being or representing Noteholders whatever the nominal amount of the Notes so held or represented, except that at any meeting the business of which includes the modification of certain provisions of the Notes, Receipts or Coupons (including modifying the date of maturity of the Notes or any date for payment of interest thereof, reducing or cancelling the amount of principal or the rate of interest payable in respect of the Notes or altering the currency of payment of the Notes, Receipts or Coupons), the quorum shall be one or more persons holding or representing not less than 75 per cent. in nominal amount of the Notes for the time being remaining outstanding, or at any adjourned such meeting one or more persons holding or representing a clear majority in nominal amount of the Notes for the time being outstanding. An Extraordinary Resolution passed at any meeting of the Noteholders shall be binding on all the Noteholders, whether or not they are present at the meeting, and on all Receiptholders and Couponholders.
The Agent and the Issuer may agree, without the consent of the Noteholders, Receiptholders or Couponholders, to:
Any such modification shall be binding on the Noteholders, the Receiptholders and the Couponholders and any such modification shall be notified to the Noteholders in accordance with Condition 13 as soon as practicable thereafter.
The Issuer shall be at liberty from time to time without the consent of the Noteholders, Receiptholders or Couponholders to create and issue further notes having terms and conditions the same as the Notes or the same in all respects save for the amount and date of the first payment of interest thereon and so that the same shall be consolidated and form a single Series with the outstanding Notes; provided that such consolidation can only occur upon (i) exchange of interests in a temporary global Note for interests in a permanent global Note or definitive Notes and (ii) certification of non-U.S. beneficial ownership.
The Issuer, may, without the consent of the Noteholders, by giving a redenomination notice pursuant to sub-paragraph (c) of this Condition 16, with effect from a date to be determined by the Issuer (the "Redenomination Date", which shall be an Interest
Page 66
 
Payment Date, unless specified otherwise in the Final Terms), redenominate into euro all, but not some only, of the Notes, provided that the Specified Currency is the official currency of a participating member state of European Economic and Monetary Union on the Redenomination Date. Simultaneously, the Issuer may alter the Specified Denomination(s) of the Notes and adjust the provisions regarding the Day Count Fraction, the Reference Rate (where applicable) and the Business Day definition to the existing or anticipated market practice.
The redenomination and any additional measures which may be taken in this connection will, to the extent not governed by mandatory laws or regulations, occur by way of an amendment to the Conditions as the Issuer may determine in its reasonable discretion, taking into account the interests of the Noteholders. Any conversion of the principal amount of each Note into euro shall be made in accordance with existing or anticipated market practice and, if consistent therewith, may be made by (i) converting the principal amount of each Note into euro by using the fixed conversion rate between the Specified Currency and the euro, and rounding the resultant figure to the nearest 0.01 euro (with 0.005 euro being rounded upwards) and (ii) altering the Specified Denomination(s) of the Notes to 0.01 euro if the regulations and procedures of the relevant Clearing System(s) so permit, otherwise one euro. Upon the redenomination, all references in the Notes to the Specified Currency will be deemed references to "euro". This does not apply if the Notes are Dual Currency Notes.
The redenomination notice will be given in accordance with Condition 12 at least 30 calendar days prior to the Redenomination Date. It will:
To the extent that applicable provisions of law permit the Issuer to redenominate the Notes into the euro and to take additional measures, the Issuer may exercise the rights provided by law instead or in addition to the rights set out above.
The Issuer reserves the right, in connection with, and as part of, the redenomination notice in respect of any Series of Notes, without the consent of the Noteholders or Couponholders, to consolidate such Series with other notes of the Issuer, which are, or as of the Redenomination Date, will be, denominated in euro and have otherwise identical terms, so that the same form a single series with the Series comprising the Notes.
Page 67
 
No person shall have any right to enforce any term or condition of the Notes under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999.
Page 68
 
(j) 1287(a)
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165
and
of the Internal Revenue Code.
bb
[By accepting this obligation, the holder represents and warrants that it is not a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder) and that it is not acting for or on behalf of a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder).]
1
This Global Note is a Temporary Global Note in respect of a duly authorised issue of Euro Medium Term Notes (the ) of PepsiCo, Inc. (the ) described, and having the provisions specified, in the Final Terms attached hereto (the ). References herein to the Conditions shall be to the Terms and Conditions of the Notes as set out in Schedule 1 to the Agency Agreement (as defined below) as modified and supplemented by the information set out in the Final Terms, but in the event of any conflict between the provisions of that Schedule and the information set out in the Final Terms, the Final Terms will prevail.
Notes
Issuer
Final Terms
Words and expressions defined or set out in the Conditions and/or the Final Terms shall bear the same meaning when used herein.
This Global Note is issued subject to, and with the benefit of, the Conditions and an Agency Agreement (the , which expression shall be construed as a reference to that agreement as the same may be amended, supplemented or restated from time to time) dated 5 August 2008 and made between the Issuer, The Bank of New York Mellon (the ) and the Paying Agents named therein.
Agency Agreement
Agent
If the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is intended to be a New Global Note, the nominal amount of Notes represented by this Global Note shall be the aggregate amount from time to time entered in the records of both Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme (together, the
relevant
 
Page 69
 
). The records of the relevant Clearing Systems (which expression in this Global Note means the records that each relevant Clearing System holds for its customers which reflect the amount of such customer's interest in the Notes) shall be conclusive evidence of the nominal amount of Notes represented by this Global Note and, for these purposes, a statement issued by a relevant Clearing System stating the nominal amount of Notes represented by this Global Note at any time shall be conclusive evidence of the records of the relevant Clearing System at that time.
Clearing Systems
For value received the Issuer, subject to and in accordance with the Conditions, promises to pay to the bearer hereof on each Instalment Date (if the Notes are repayable in instalments) and on the Maturity Date and/or on such earlier date(s) as all or any of the Notes represented by this Global Note may become due and repayable in accordance with the Conditions, the amount payable under the Conditions in respect of such Notes on each such date and to pay interest (if any) on the nominal amount of the Notes from time to time represented by this Global Note calculated and payable as provided in the Conditions together with any other sums payable under the Conditions, upon presentation and, at maturity, surrender of this Global Note to or to the order of the Agent or any of the other Paying Agents located outside the United States (except as provided in the Conditions) from time to time appointed by the Issuer in respect of the Notes, but in each case subject to the requirements as to certification provided herein. On any redemption or payment of an instalment or interest being made in respect of, or purchase and cancellation of, any of the Notes represented by this Global Note the Issuer shall procure that:
Page 70
 
Prior to the Exchange Date (as defined below), all payments (if any) on this Global Note will only be made to the bearer hereof to the extent that there is presented to the Agent by Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme () or Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. () a certificate to the effect that it has received from or in respect of a person entitled to a beneficial interest in a particular nominal amount of the Notes represented by this Global Note (as shown by its records) a certificate of non-US beneficial ownership in the form required by the Issuer. The bearer of this Global Note will not be entitled to receive any payment of interest hereon due on or after the Exchange Date, unless exchange is improperly withheld or refused.
Clearstream, Luxembourg
Euroclear
On or after the date (the ) which is 40 days after the Issue Date, this Global Note may be exchanged in whole or in part (free of charge) for, as specified in the Final Terms, either (i) security printed Definitive Notes and (if applicable) Coupons, Receipts and Talons in the form set out in Parts III, IV, V and VI respectively of Schedule 2 to the Agency Agreement (on the basis that all the appropriate details have been included on the face of such Definitive Notes and (if applicable) Coupons, Receipts and Talons and the Final Terms (or the relevant provisions of the Final Terms) have been either endorsed on or attached to such Definitive Notes)) or, (ii) if the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is intended to be a New Global Note, interests recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems in a Permanent Global Note, or, if the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is not intended to be a New Global Note, a Permanent Global Note, which is in or substantially in the form set out in Part II of Schedule 2 to the Agency Agreement (together with the Final Terms attached thereto) upon notice being given by Euroclear and/or Clearstream acting on the instructions of any holder of an interest in this Global Note.
Exchange Date
If Definitive Notes and (if applicable) Coupons, Receipts and/or Talons have already been issued in exchange for all the Notes represented for the time being by the Permanent Global Note, then this Global Note may only thereafter be exchanged for Definitive Notes and (if applicable) Coupons, Receipts and/or Talons pursuant to the terms hereof.
This Global Note may be exchanged by the bearer hereof on any day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for business in London. The Issuer shall procure that the Definitive Notes or (as the case may be) the Permanent Global Note shall be issued and delivered and (in the case of the Permanent Global Note where the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is intended to be a New Global Note recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing System) in exchange for only that portion of this Global Note in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Agent by Clearstream, Luxembourg or Euroclear a certificate to the effect that it has received from or in respect of a person entitled to a beneficial interest in a particular nominal amount of the Notes represented by this Global Note (as shown by its records) a certificate of non-US beneficial ownership in the form required by the Issuer.
Page 71
 
On an exchange of the whole of this Global Note, this Global Note shall be surrendered to or to the order of the Agent. On an exchange of part only of this Global Note, the Issuer shall procure that:
Until the exchange of the whole of this Global Note as aforesaid, the bearer hereof shall in all respect (except as otherwise provided herein) be entitled to the same benefits as if he were the bearer of Definitive Notes and the relative Coupons, Receipts and/or Talons (if any) in the form(s) set out in Part III, Part IV, Part V and Part VI, respectively, of Schedule 2 to the Agency Agreement.
In the event that this Global Note (or any part hereof) has become due and repayable in accordance with the Conditions or that the Maturity Date in respect thereof has occurred and payment in full of the amount due has not been made to the bearer in accordance with the foregoing then, unless within the period of 15 days commencing on the relevant due date payment in full of the amount due in respect of this Global Note is received by the bearer in accordance with the foregoing, this Global Note will become void at 8.00 p.m. (London time) on such fifteenth day and the bearer will have no further rights under this Global Note (but without prejudice to the rights which the bearer or any other person may have under an amended and restated Deed of Covenant executed by the Issuer on 5 August 2008 in respect of the Euro Medium Term Notes issued under the Programme Agreement pursuant to which this Global Note is issued).
This Global Note is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law.
This Global Note shall not be valid unless authenticated by the Agent and, if the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is intended to be held in a manner which would allow Eurosystem eligibility, effectuated by the entity appointed as common safe-keeper by the Relevant Clearing Systems.
whereof the Issuer has caused this Global Note to be duly executed on its behalf.
In Witness
Page 72
 
PEPSICO, INC.
By:
Authorised Signatory
Authenticated without recourse, warranty or liability by
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
By:
Authorised Signatory
Effectuated without recourse, warranty or liability by
By:
Authorised Signatory
Page 73
 
 
Page 74
 
 
Page 75
 
 
Page 76
 
 
Page 77
 
 
Page 78
 
ja
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(
) and 1287(
) of the Internal Revenue Code.
bb
[By accepting this obligation, the holder represents and warrants that it is not a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder) and that it is not acting for or on behalf of a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder).]
1
This Global Note is a Permanent Global Note in respect of a duly authorised Series of Euro Medium Term Notes (the ) of PepsiCo, Inc. (the ) described, and having the provisions specified, in the Final Terms or Final Terms attached hereto (together the ). Notes will only be issued initially in respect of any Tranche of Notes in permanent global form where no certification of non-United States beneficial ownership is required by U.S. Treasury Regulations. References herein to the shall be to the Terms and Conditions of the Notes as set out in Schedule 1 to the Agency Agreement (as defined below) as modified and supplemented by the information set out in the Final Terms, but in the event of any conflict between the provisions of that Schedule and the information set out in the Final Terms, the Final Terms will prevail.
Notes
Issuer
Final Terms
Conditions
Words and expressions defined or set out in the Conditions and/or the Final Terms shall bear the same meaning when used herein.
This Global Note is issued subject to, and with the benefit of, the Conditions and an Agency Agreement (the , which expression shall be construed as a reference to that agreement as the same may be amended, supplemented or restated from time to time) dated 5 August 2008 and made between the Issuer, The Bank of New York Mellon (the ) and the Paying Agents named therein.
Agency Agreement
Agent
If the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is intended to be a New Global Note, the nominal amount of Notes represented by this Global Note shall be the aggregate amount from time to time entered in the records of both Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme (together, the ). The records of the relevant Clearing Systems (which expression in this Global Note means the records that each relevant Clearing System holds for its
relevant Clearing Systems
 
Page 79
 
customers which reflect the amount of such customer's interest in the Notes) shall be conclusive evidence of the nominal amount of Notes represented by this Global Note and, for these purposes, a statement issued by a relevant Clearing System stating the nominal amount of Notes represented by this Global Note at any time shall be conclusive evidence of the records of the relevant Clearing System at that time.
For value received the issuer, subject to and in accordance with the Conditions, promises to pay to the bearer hereof on each Instalment Date (if the Notes are repayable in instalments) and on the Maturity Date and/or on such earlier date(s) as all or any of the Notes represented by this Global Note may become due and repayable in accordance with the Conditions, the amount payable under the Conditions in respect of such Notes on each such date and to pay interest (if any) on the nominal amount of the Notes from time to time represented by this Global Note calculated and payable as provided in the Conditions together with any other sums payable under the Conditions, upon presentation and, at maturity, surrender of this Global Note to or to the order of the agent at or any of the other Paying Agents located outside the United States (except as provided in the Conditions) from time to time appointed by the Issuer in respect of the Notes. On any redemption or payment of an instalment or interest being made in respect of, or purchase and cancellation of, any of the Notes represented by this Global Note the Issuer shall procure that:
(i) if the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is intended to be a New Global Note, details of the payment of interest and of any payment of an instalment shall be entered in the records of the relevant Clearing System, details of redemption or purchase and cancellation (as the case may be) shall be entered pro rata in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems and, upon any such entry being made, the nominal amount of the Notes recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems and represented by this Global Note shall be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of the Notes so redeemed or purchased and cancelled or by the aggregate amount of such instalment so paid, or
(ii) if the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is not intended to be a New Global Note, details of such redemption, payment or purchase and cancellation (as the case may be) shall be entered by or on behalf of the Issuer in Schedule One hereto and the relevant space in Schedule One hereto recording any such redemption, payment or purchase and cancellation (as the case may be) shall be signed by or on behalf of the Issuer. Upon any such redemption, payment of an instalment or purchase and cancellation as aforesaid, the nominal amount of the notes represented by this Global Note shall be reduced by the nominal amount of such Notes so redeemed or purchased and cancelled or the amount of such instalment. The nominal amount of this Global Note and of the Notes represented hereby following any such redemption, payment of an instalment or purchase and cancellation as aforesaid, or any exchange as referred to below shall be the nominal amount most recently entered by or on behalf of the Issuer in the relevant column in Part II, III or IV of Schedule One or in Schedule Two hereto.
[On any exchange of the Temporary Global Note issued in respect of the Notes for this Global Note or any part hereof, details of such exchange shall be entered by or on behalf of the Issuer either, if the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note
Page 80
 
is intended to be a New Global Note, as interests recorded in the records of the relevant Clearing Systems in a Permanent Global Note, or if the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is not ended to be a New Global Note, in Schedule Two hereto and the relevant space in Schedule Two hereto recording such exchange shall be signed by or on behalf of the Issuer, whereupon the nominal amount of the Temporary Global Note shall be reduced and the Notes represented by this Global Note shall be increased by the nominal amount of the Temporary Global Note so exchanged.]
2
This Global Note may be exchanged (free of charge) for Definitive Notes and (if applicable) Coupons, Receipts and/or Talons in the form set out in Part III, Part IV, Part V and Part VI respectively, of Schedule 2 to the Agency Agreement (on the basis that all the appropriate details have been included on the face of such Definitive Notes and (if applicable) Coupons, Receipts and Talons and the Final Terms (or the relevant provisions of the Final Terms) have been incorporated on such Definitive Notes) provided that the first notice referred to below given to the Agent by Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. () and/or Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme () shall give rise to the issue of Definitive Notes for the total amount of Notes represented by this Global Note. Subject to at least 60 days' written notice [expiring at least 30 days after the Exchange Date (as defined in the Temporary Global Note referred to above)] being given to the Agent by Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg acting on the instructions of any holder of any interest in this Global Note, such exchange will be made upon presentation of this Global Note by the bearer hereof on any day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for business in London at the office of the Agent specified above. The aggregate nominal amount of Definitive Notes issued upon an exchange of the whole of this Global Note will be equal to the aggregate nominal amount of Notes represented by this Global Note.
Euroclear
Clearstream, Luxembourg
3
On an exchange of this Global Note, this Global Note shall be surrendered to or to the order of the Agent.
Until the exchange of the whole of this Global Note as aforesaid, the bearer hereof shall in all respect be entitled to the same benefits as if he were the bearer of Definitive Notes and the relative Coupons, Receipts and/or Talons (if any) in the forms set out in Part III, Part IV, Part V and Part VI, respectively, of Schedule 2 to the Agency Agreement.
In the event that this Global Note (or any part hereof) has become due and repayable in accordance with the Conditions or that the Maturity Date has occurred and payment in full of the amount due has not been made to the bearer in accordance with the foregoing then, unless within the period of 15 days commencing on the relevant due date payment in full of the amount due in respect of this Global Note is received by the bearer in accordance with the foregoing, this Global Note will become void at 8.00 p.m. (London time) on such fifteenth day and the bearer will have no further rights under this Global Note (but without prejudice to the rights which the bearer or
 
Page 81
 
any other person may have under the amended and restated Deed of Covenant executed by the Issuer on 5 August 2008 in respect of the Euro Medium Term Notes issued under the Programme Agreement pursuant to which this Global Note is issued).
This Global Note is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law.
This Global Note shall not be valid unless authenticated by the Agent, and, if the applicable Final Terms indicate that this Global Note is intended to be held in a manner which would allow Eurosystem eligibility, effectuated by the entity appointed as common safekeeper by the Relevant Clearing Systems.
whereof the Issuer has caused this Global Note to be duly executed on its behalf.
In witness
Page 82
 
 
Page 83
 
 
Page 84
 
 
Page 85
 
 
Page 86
 
     The following exchanges affecting the nominal amount of this Global Note have been made:
 
Page 87
 
ja
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(
) and 1287(
) of the Internal Revenue Code.
bb
[By accepting this obligation, the holder represents and warrants that it is not a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder) and that it is not acting for or on behalf of a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder).]
1
This Note is one of a duly authorised issue of Euro Medium Term Notes denominated in the Specified Currency maturing on the Maturity Date (the ) of PepsiCo, Inc. (the ). References herein to the Conditions shall be to the Terms and Conditions [endorsed hereon/set out in Schedule 1 to the Agency Agreement (as defined below) which shall be incorporated by reference herein and have effect as if set out hereon] as modified and supplemented by the Final Terms (the ) (or the relevant provisions of the Final Terms) endorsed hereon, but in the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Conditions and the information in the Final Terms, the Final Terms will prevail.
Notes
Issuer
Final Terms
This Note is issued subject to, and with the benefit of, the Conditions and an Agency Agreement (the , which expression shall be construed as a reference to that agreement as the same may be amended, supplemented or restated from time to time) dated 5 August 2008 and made between the Issuer, The Bank of New York Mellon (the ) and the Paying Agents named therein.
Agency Agreement
Agent
For value received, the Issuer, subject to and in accordance with the Conditions, promises to pay to the bearer hereof [on each Instalment Date and] on the Maturity Date (if the Notes are redeemable in instalments) and/or on such earlier dates) as this Note may become due and repayable in accordance with the Conditions, the amount payable under the Conditions in respect of this Note on each such date and to pay interest (if any) on this Note calculated and payable as provided in the Conditions together with any other sums payable under the Conditions.
This Note shall not be validly issued unless authenticated by the Agent.
 
Page 88
 
whereof the Issuer has caused this Note to be duly executed on its behalf.
In Witness
PEPSICO, INC.
By:
Authorised Signatory
Authenticated without recourse, warranty or liability by
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
By:
Authorised Signatory
Effectuated without recourse, warranty or liability by
By:
Authorised Signatory
Page 89
 
Page 90
 
(Face of Coupon)
ja
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(
) and 1287(
) of the Internal Revenue Code.
bb
[By accepting this obligation, the holder represents and warrants that it is not a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder) and that it is not acting for or on behalf of a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder).]
1
Part A
[
For Fixed Rate Notes:
Part B
[
For Floating Rate Notes or Indexed Interest Notes:
This Coupon is payable to bearer, separately negotiable and subject to such Terms and Conditions, under which it may become void before its due date.]
00               000000          [ISIN]          00               000000
 
Page 91
 
(Reverse of Coupon)
and/or such other or further Agent and other or further Paying Agents and/or specified offices as may from time to time be duly appointed by the Issuer and notice of which has been given to the Noteholders.
Page 92
 
(On the front)
ja
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(
) and 1287(
) of the Internal Revenue Code.
bb
[By accepting this obligation, the holder represents and warrants that it is not a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder) and that it is not acting for or on behalf of a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder).]
1
Receipt for the sum of [          ] being the instalment of principal payable in accordance with the Terms and Conditions endorsed on the Note to which this Receipt appertains (the ) on [          ].
Conditions
This Receipt is issued subject to and in accordance with the Conditions which shall be binding upon the holder of this Receipt (whether or not it is for the time being attached to such Note) and is payable at the specified office of the Agent or any of the Paying Agents set out on the reverse of the Note to which this Receipt appertains (and/or any other or further Paying Agents and/or specified offices as may from time to time be duly appointed and notified to the Noteholders).
This Receipt must be presented for payment together with the Note to which it appertains. The Issuer shall have no obligation in respect of any Receipt presented without the Note to which it appertains or any unmatured Receipts.
PEPSICO, INC.
By:
Authorised Signatory
 
Page 93
 
(On the front)
ja
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(
) and 1287(
) of the Internal Revenue Code.
bb
[By accepting this obligation, the holder represents and warrants that it is not a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder) and that it is not acting for or on behalf of a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in section 6049(
)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder).]
1
On or after [          ] further Coupons [and a further Talon] appertaining to the Note to which this Talon appertains will be issued at the specified office of the Agent or any of the Paying Agents set out on the reverse hereof (and/or any other or further Paying Agents and/or specified offices as may from time to time be duly appointed and notified to the Noteholders) upon production and surrender of this Talon.
This Talon may, in certain circumstances, become void under the Terms and Conditions endorsed on the Notes to which this Talon appertains.
PEPSICO, INC.
By:
Authorised Signatory
 
Page 94
 
(Reverse of Receipt and Talon)
and/or such other or further Agent and other or further Paying Agents and/or specified offices as may from time to time be duly appointed by the Issuer and notice of which has been given to the Noteholders.
Page 95
 
THIS DEED OF COVENANT is made on 5 August 2008 by PepsiCo, Inc. (the Issuer) in favour of the account holders specified below of Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme and Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., and/or any other additional clearing system or systems as are specified in the Final Terms relating to any Note (as defined below) (each a Clearing System).
WHEREAS:
(A) The Issuer has entered into a Programme Agreement (the Programme Agreement, which expression includes the same as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time) dated 5 August 2008 with the Dealers named therein under which the Issuer proposes from time to time to issue Euro Medium Term Notes (the Notes).
(B) The Notes will initially be represented by, and comprised in, Temporary Global Notes (the Temporary Global Notes) or Permanent Global Notes (the Permanent Global Notes, the Temporary Global Notes and the Permanent Global Notes being herein together called the Global Notes) representing a certain number of underlying Notes (the Underlying Notes). Each Underlying Note initially represented by, and comprised in, a Temporary Global Note may be thereafter represented by a Permanent Global Note.
(C) Each Global Note may, after issue, be deposited with a depositary or, as the case may be, the common safekeeper, for one or more Clearing Systems (each such Clearing System or all such Clearing Systems together, the Relevant Clearing System). Upon such deposit of a Global Note the Underlying Notes represented by such Global Note will be credited to a securities account or securities accounts with the Relevant Clearing System. Any account holder with the Relevant Clearing System which has underlying Notes credited to its securities account from time to time (each a Relevant Account Holder) will, subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions and operating procedures or management regulations of the Relevant Clearing System, be entitled to transfer such Underlying Notes and (subject to and upon payment being made by the Issuer to the bearer in accordance with the terms of the relevant Global Note) will be entitled to receive payments from the Relevant Clearing System, as the case may be, calculated by reference to the Underlying Notes credited to its securities account.
(D) In certain circumstances specified in each Global Note, a Global Note will become void. The time at which a Global Note becomes void is hereinafter referred to as the Relevant Time. In such circumstances each Relevant Account Holder will, subject to and in accordance with the terms of this Deed, acquire against the Issuer all those rights which such Relevant Account Holder would have had if, prior to the Global Note becoming void, duly executed and authenticated Definitive Note(s) (as defined in the Agency Agreement) and, if the Notes are repayable in instalments, receipts in respect thereof (the Receipts) and interest coupons (the Coupons) appertaining to the Definitive Note(s) (if appropriate) had been issued in respect of its
Page 96
 
Underlying Note(s) and such Definitive Note(s), Receipts (if appropriate) and Coupons (if appropriate) were held and beneficially owned by such Relevant Account Holder.
NOW THIS DEED WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS:
1. If any Global Note becomes void in accordance with the terms thereof the Issuer hereby undertakes and covenants with each Relevant Account Holder (other than when any Relevant Clearing System is an account holder of any other Relevant Clearing System) that each Relevant Account Holder shall automatically acquire at the Relevant Time, without the need for any further action on behalf of any person, against the Issuer all those rights which such Relevant Account Holder has credited to its securities account with the Relevant Clearing System at the Relevant Time. The Issuer's obligation pursuant to this clause shall be a separate and independent obligation by reference to each Underlying Note which a Relevant Account Holder has credited to its securities account with the Relevant Clearing System and the Issuer agrees that a Relevant Account Holder may assign its rights hereunder in whole or in part.
2. The records of the Relevant Clearing System shall be conclusive evidence of the identity of the Relevant Account Holders and the number of Underlying Notes credited to the securities account of each Relevant Account Holder. For the purposes hereof a statement issued by the Relevant Clearing System stating:
(i) the name of the Relevant Account Holder to which such statement is issued; and
(ii) the aggregate nominal amount of Underlying Notes credited to the securities account of such Relevant Account Holder as at the opening of business on the first day following the Relevant Time on which the Relevant Clearing System is open for business, shall be conclusive evidence of the records of the Relevant Clearing System at the Relevant Time.
3. In the event of a dispute, the determination of the Relevant Time by the Relevant Clearing System (in the absence of manifest error) shall be final and conclusive for all purposes in connection with the Relevant Account Holders with securities accounts with the Relevant Clearing System.
4. The Issuer will, subject to the exceptions and limitations set forth below, pay such Additional Amounts as are necessary in order that the net payment by the Issuer or any Paying Agent of the principal of and interest (including any discount) on a Note or Coupon to a holder who is a United States Alien (as such term is defined below), after deduction or withholding for or on account of any present or future tax, assessment or governmental charge of the United States (as such term is defined below), or a political subdivision or authority thereof or therein, imposed by withholding with respect to the payment, will not be less than the amount provided for in such Note or such Coupon to be then due and payable; provided, however, that the foregoing obligation to pay Additional Amounts shall not apply to:
Page 97
 
Page 98
 
As used with this paragraph, means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and each possession of the United States of America and place subject to its jurisdiction and means any person that is for United States federal income tax purposes (A) a foreign corporation, (B) a foreign partnership one or more of the members of which is, for United States federal income tax purposes, a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust, (C) a non-resident alien individual or (D) a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust.
United States
United States Alien
As used herein, the means the date on which such payment first becomes due, except that, if the full amount of the moneys payable has not been duly received by the Agent on or prior to such due date, it means the date on which, the full amount of such moneys having been so received, notice to that effect is duly given to the Noteholders.
Relevant Date
5. The Issuer will pay any stamp and other duties and similar taxes, including interest and penalties, payable on or in connection with the execution of this Deed and any action taken by any Relevant Account Holder to enforce the provisions of this Deed.
6. The Issuer hereby warrants, represents and covenants with each Relevant Account Holder that it has all corporate power, and has taken all necessary corporate or other steps, to enable it to execute, deliver and perform this Deed, and that this Deed constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Issuer enforceable in accordance with its terms subject to the laws of bankruptcy and other laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
7. This Deed shall take effect as a Deed Poll for the benefit of the Relevant Account Holders from time to time and for the time being. This Deed shall be deposited with and held by the depositary or, as the case may be, the common
Page 99
 
safekeeper for the Relevant Clearing System until all the obligations of the Issuer hereunder have been discharged in full.
8. The Issuer hereby acknowledges the right of every Relevant Account Holder to the production of, and the right of every Relevant Account Holder to obtain (upon payment of a reasonable charge) a copy of, this Deed, and further acknowledges any covenants that the obligations binding upon it contained herein are owed to, and shall be for the account of, each and every Relevant Account Holder, and that each Relevant Account Holder shall be entitled severally to enforce the said obligations against the Issuer.
9. This Deed is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, the law of England.
The Issuer hereby irrevocably agrees, for the exclusive benefit of the Paying Agents, that the courts of England are to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes which may arise out of or in connection with this Deed and that accordingly any suit, action or proceedings (together referred to as Proceedings) arising out of or in connection with this Deed may be brought in such courts. The Issuer hereby irrevocably waives any objection which it may have now or hereafter to the laying of the venue of any such Proceedings in any such court and any claim that any such Proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum and hereby further irrevocably agrees that a judgment in any such Proceedings brought in the English courts shall be conclusive and binding upon it and may be enforced in the courts of any other jurisdiction. Nothing contained in this Clause shall limit any right to take Proceedings against the Issuer in any other court of competent jurisdiction, nor shall the taking of Proceedings in one or more jurisdictions preclude the taking of Proceedings in any other jurisdiction, whether concurrently or not. The Issuer hereby appoints PepsiCo International Limited at its registered office at 63 Kew Road, Richmond, Surrey, England TW9 2QL (Attention: Division Counsel) as its agent for service of process, and undertakes that, in the event of PepsiCo International Limited ceasing so to act or ceasing to be registered in England, it will appoint another person, as the Agent may approve, as its agent for service of process in England in respect of any Proceedings. Nothing herein shall affect the right to serve process in any manner permitted by law.
10. No person shall have any right to enforce any term or condition of the Notes under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999.
IN WITNESS whereof the Issuer has caused this Deed to be duly executed the day and year first above mentioned.
Page 100
 
Name:
Address:
Page 101
 
Page 102
 
Page 103
 
Page 104
 
Page 105
 
Page 106
 
Page 107
 
Page 108
 
Page 109
 
By depositing this duly completed Notice with any Paying Agent for the above Series of Notes (the ) the undersigned holder of such Notes surrendered with this Notice and referred to below irrevocably exercises its option to have such Notes redeemed in accordance with Condition 6(d) on [redemption date].
Notes
The Notice relates to Notes in the aggregate nominal amount of bearing the following serial numbers:
                    
     If the Notes referred to above are to be returned to the undersigned under Clause 10(4) of the Agency Agreement, they should be returned by post to:
(1)
Payment Instructions
Please make payment in respect of the above-mentioned Notes by [cheque posted to the above address/transfer to the following bank account] :
(2)
[To be completed by recipient Paying Agent]
Page 110
 
Notes
Page 111
 
By:
The Issuer
PEPSICO, INC. 700 Anderson Hill Road Purchase New York 10577
The Agent
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON One Canada Square London E14 5AL England
By:
Page 112
 
The other Paying Agents
THE BANK OF NEW YORK (LUXEMBOURG) S.A. Aerogolf Centre 1A Hoehenhof Senningerberg L-1736 Luxembourg
All communications c/o the Agent
By:
Page 113
 
 
Page I
 
Page II

Exhibit 4.2
THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED DEED OF COVENANT is made on 5 August 2008 by PepsiCo, Inc. (the ) in favour of the account holders specified below of Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme and Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and/or any other additional clearing system or systems as are specified in the Final Terms relating to any Note (as defined below) (each a ).
Issuer
Clearing System
Whereas:
 
Now this deed witnesses as follows:
Page 2
 
Page 3
 
Page 4
 
Page 5
 
whereof the Issuer has caused this Deed to be duly executed the day and year first above mentioned.
In witness
Page 6
 


