FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20080324065807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
As previously communicated, in the fourth quarter of 2007, PepsiCo (the "Company") announced a strategic realignment of its organizational structure into three new business units, as follows:
 
 
 
Beginning in 2008, the Company's three business units are now comprised of six reportable segments, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Form 8-K provides a summary of the effects of the above reporting change on the Company's historical segment results on a reported and comparable basis. This change in segment reporting does not revise or restate the Company's previously reported consolidated financial statements. The Company is issuing this Form 8-K in order to provide investors with summary financial information and historical data that is on a basis consistent with the Company's new reporting structure. Beginning in the first quarter of 2008, the Company's financial statements will reflect the new reporting structure with prior periods adjusted accordingly.
Item 9.01(c). Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: March 24, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
Exhibit 99.1 (Continued)
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges in connection with previously announced plant closings and production line rationalizations, as well as costs associated with the recent divisional reorganization. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges in conjunction with consolidating the manufacturing network at Frito Lay by closing two plants in the U.S., and rationalizing other assets, to increase manufacturing productivity and supply chain efficiencies.
Operating profit excluding the the impact of restructuring and impairment charges is not a measure defined by generally accepted accounting principles. However, we believe investors should consider this measure as it is more indicative of our ongoing performance and how management evaluates our operational results and trends.
 


