FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20090722085056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 is a copy of the press release issued by PepsiCo, Inc. ("PepsiCo"), dated July 22, 2009, reporting PepsiCo's financial results for the 12 and 24 weeks ended June 13, 2009.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
PURCHASE, N.Y. (July 22, 2009)  PepsiCo, Inc. (NYSE: PEP) today reported solid revenue and operating profit results in the second quarter of 2009, reflecting strong effective net pricing, product innovation and cost discipline. Reported EPS of $1.06 was flat on a 3 percent decline in net revenue. In constant currency, the company delivered a 5.5 percent increase in net revenue and an 8 percent increase in core EPS.
Indra Nooyi, PepsiCo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Our results this quarter reinforce the advantages of our balanced portfolio, as our food and international businesses delivered solid performance while we continued the transformation of our North American beverage business.
"Consumers find nourishment, simple pleasures and great value in our products, which keeps them loyal to our brands in these tough times. And our seasoned team of leaders has the operating agility to deliver on our full-year guidance while implementing our long-term plans for healthy and balanced growth. Across our businesses, we are investing aggressively in R&D to drive innovation to further differentiate our brands; and we believe now is the time to invest in key markets that represent enormous opportunities for years to come," Nooyi continued.
 
 
As part of its strategy to grow in key markets, the company recently announced plans to invest $1 billion over the next four years in China, PepsiCo's highest priority growth market. And, in Russia, PepsiCo along with its partner The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc., announced a plan to invest $1 billion over the next three years.
Richard Goodman, PepsiCo Chief Financial Officer said, "Targeted growth, disciplined cost management and a keen focus on working capital management drove strong cash flow from operations in the quarter. We are on track to deliver $6.4 billion in cash flow from operations this year, or $7 billion excluding a one-time discretionary pension contribution we made in the first quarter." He continued, "PepsiCo's strong financial position, coupled with the structural advantages of our business model, allows us to continue to invest in growth initiatives designed to enhance our competitiveness."
 
 
Division Operating Summary
On a constant currency basis, delivered 9 percent net revenue and 10 percent core operating profit growth led by Frito-Lay North America and Latin America Foods. Solid performance was driven by effective net revenue management and cost control.
PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF)
constant currency net revenue grew 8 percent, constant currency core operating profit grew 8 percent and volume was up 3 percent. Volume growth was driven by strong performance in FLNA's core brands such as Lay's and Doritos, supported in part by the "20% more" promotion on its take-home sized, corn-based offerings. Dips and Multipacks, together with healthy adjacencies to the core portfolio such as TrueNorth nuts, Sabra dips, Spitz seeds and Stacy's pita chips, also contributed to the growth in volume.
Frito-Lay North America (FLNA)
Product innovation highlights in the quarter included line extensions of core brands such as Doritos Late Night and Giant Cheetos. In addition to driving innovation in its product line, FLNA deployed shelf innovation at over 8,000 stores. The streamlined displays create a more inviting and intuitive shopping experience and prominently feature FLNA's health and wellness offerings.
posted a 1 percent decline in constant currency net revenue while constant currency core operating profit grew 9 percent as it overlapped costs related to the Cedar Rapids flood last year. Quaker continues to be recognized as a leading health and wellness brand, with whole grain credentials. However, during the quarter, some value conscious consumers traded down to lower priced offerings resulting in volume declines in some of the product lines such as oatmeal. We continue to focus on the global expansion of the Quaker franchise while innovating for the value consumer in the meantime.
Quaker Foods North America (QFNA)
constant currency net revenue grew 12 percent, constant currency core operating profit grew 18 percent and volume was flat. LAF's performance was driven by pricing actions, disciplined cost control and productivity improvements, all of which more than offset input cost inflation. In Mexico, we saw the usual portfolio effect amidst difficult economic times: while volume was down at Sabritas, in part because of pricing to offset input costs, it was up at Gamesa, which benefited from innovation in its new "better-for-you" line of Quaker snacks. Importantly, both businesses drove increases in constant currency net revenue and constant currency core operating profit, and deftly managed through the adverse impact on demand of the H1N1 virus outbreak. Volume in South America was up, driven by double-digit volume gains in Brazil and strong results in the Southern Cone.
Latin America Foods (LAF)
 
constant currency net revenue declined 7 percent, constant currency core operating profit was down 5 percent and volume declined 6 percent. The overall results reflect the challenging underlying liquid refreshment beverage (LRB) category dynamics, consumer shifts to lower-priced options, an intensely competitive environment as well as deliberate strategic choices on our part. Improvement in the underlying sequential trends in our business and improving brand equity scores give the company cause to believe that the investments we are making are having a favorable impact on our portfolio.
PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB)
In CSDs, which account for 45 percent of the LRB category, we introduced a number of innovations: brand Pepsi's "Refresh Everything" campaign; Mtn Dew Game Fuel and Voltage; Sierra Mist Ruby Red; and limited edition "Throwback" variations of Pepsi and Mtn Dew, featuring retro graphics and sweetened with all-natural sugar. Brand Mtn Dew posted another quarter of positive growth and PepsiCo's Diet CSD portfolio gained share.
Our naturally-sweetened, zero-calorie products featuring stevia-based PureVia are successful. SoBe LifeWater, the fastest growing enhanced water brand, recorded very impressive growth rates, and Trop50 is also performing well.
Although G2 continues to post double-digit volume growth, the overall Gatorade franchise continues to experience declines as casual users turn to less expensive LRBs in this challenging economy. Our conscious strategy is to maintain the integrity of the brand by sharpening our focus on core fitness users, for whom the functionality of the product remains paramount. Brand regard scores within the core fitness cohort group are high and improving and the new campaign focused on active thirst has also been well received. Our goal is to migrate the casual drinker and wellness oriented Gatorade consumers to new offerings in 2010, which we will soon announce. The strength of our overall portfolio allows us to make the necessary investments to rejuvenate our North American beverage business in a judicious manner.
drove solid performance in the second quarter, despite macroeconomic headwinds, resulting in double-digit, constant currency net revenue and constant currency core operating profit growth.
PepsiCo International (PI)
In the quarter, the recession deepened in as real GDP declined across the region. In this challenging environment, our teams demonstrated their operating agility by optimizing revenue while maintaining tight cost controls and leveraging productivity gains to protect profitability. On a constant currency basis, Europe net revenue grew 10 percent and core operating profit grew 15 percent. On a constant currency basis, acquisitions contributed 10 percentage points to net revenue growth and 6 percentage points to core operating profit growth.
Europe
 
In Europe snacks, volume declined 1 percent, which included 4 percentage points of growth from the Marbo acquisition. Volumes were adversely impacted by pricing actions, including weight outs, to offset local commodity inflation. Nevertheless, the business maintained market share. In the U.K., Walkers grew revenue share through disciplined pricing and the continuing success of its "Do Us a Flavour" campaign.
In the Europe beverage business, volume grew 2 percent driven by the favorable impact of the Lebedyansky acquisition. While volumes declined in Eastern Europe, CSDs posted impressive growth in the United Kingdom aided by relevant promotions and price pack architectures, such as the "Big Night In" pack, targeted to consumers who are opting to eat at home more often due to macroeconomic pressure.
On a constant currency basis, net revenue grew 14 percent and core operating profit improved 21 percent. On a constant currency basis, the net impact of acquisitions contributed 1 percentage point to both net revenue and core operating profit growth. This balanced performance resulted from effective net revenue management and cost discipline across the businesses.
Asia/Middle East/Africa (AMEA)
AMEA division beverage volume grew 8 percent. Volume growth was broad-based across geographies and categories with particular strength in India and the Middle East. India's strong momentum across both CSDs and NCBs was driven largely by investments to expand cooler space across the country and from relevant local product innovations such as Nimbooz, the company's version of traditional lemonade served in most Indian households. In China, PepsiCo continues to expand its beverage portfolio, launching Pepsi Max, Mtn Dew and expanding distribution of its Tropicana juice drinks.
AMEA division snacks volume grew 3 percent. This growth was broad-based, including developed markets such as Australia and developing markets in the Middle East.
AMEA continues to invest in under penetrated areas and broaden the health and wellness offerings in its portfolio. In the third quarter, the company entered into a strategic alliance with Calbee Foods Company to produce and sell a wide range of food products in Japan. The company also recently announced that its joint venture with Almarai has acquired 75 percent of Teeba, one of the leading fresh dairy producers in Jordan that produces and distributes fresh juice products.
Corporate Unallocated
For the quarter, net mark-to-market gains on commodity hedges were $100 million compared with a $61 million gain in the comparable period a year ago. An increase in other corporate unallocated expenses reflected higher deferred compensation expense, which is offset by a corresponding benefit in interest income. Net interest expense increased $37 million due to increased borrowings associated with acquisitions, a discretionary pension contribution and share repurchases in the prior year.
 
Tax Rate
PepsiCo's reported tax rate was 25.4 percent for the second quarter. Excluding the impact of items affecting comparability, PepsiCo's core tax rate was 24.9 percent for the second quarter. The company expects its full-year reported and core tax rates to be about 27 percent.
Cash Flow
The year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $1.5 billion, compared to $2.2 billion in the prior year period, reflecting, in 2009, a discretionary $1 billion contribution to PepsiCo's pension fund and $160 million of cash payments associated with the Productivity for Growth program. In the prior year period, PepsiCo made $24 million of restructuring-related cash payments. Excluding these items, and the associated cash tax benefits, management operating cash flow was $1.7 billion year-to-date, compared to $1.4 billion in the prior year period. This $0.3 billion year-over-year increase was driven by PepsiCo's disciplined capital spending and sound working capital management.
2009 Guidance
PepsiCo's food and international businesses are performing well around the world and the company is confident in the strength of its diversified portfolio and the agility of its operating model to continue to deliver solid results. As a result, the company reaffirms its full-year 2009 guidance for both net revenue and core EPS of mid- to high-single-digit constant currency growth over its 2008 core EPS of $3.68. The company estimates that foreign exchange, at current rates, would have roughly a 6 percent adverse impact to its full-year constant currency core EPS. Where in the guidance range the company may fall could be impacted, among other things, by changes in foreign exchange rates and the pacing of share repurchases. The company did not repurchase its shares in the first two quarters and does not anticipate repurchasing its shares until there is a resolution of the proposed transactions with The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. and PepsiAmericas, Inc.
Excluding the impact of its $1 billion discretionary pension contribution (approximately $640 million after-tax) cash from operating activities is expected to be about $7 billion. The company expects to invest about $2.1 billion in net capital spending.
The company's 2009 guidance does not include the impact of the proposed transactions with The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. and PepsiAmericas, Inc.
About PepsiCo
PepsiCo offers the world's largest portfolio of billion-dollar food and beverage brands, including 18 different product lines that each generate more than $1 billion in annual retail sales. Our main businesses  Frito-Lay, Quaker, Pepsi-Cola, Tropicana and Gatorade  also make hundreds of other nourishing, tasty foods and drinks that bring joy to our consumers in over 200 countries. With more than $43 billion in 2008 revenues, PepsiCo employs 198,000 people who are united by our unique commitment to sustainable growth, called Performance with Purpose. By dedicating ourselves to offering a broad array of choices for healthy, convenient and fun nourishment, reducing our environmental impact, and fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace culture, PepsiCo balances strong financial returns with giving back to our communities worldwide. For more information, please visit .
www.pepsico.com
 
Cautionary Statement
Statements in this release that are "forward-looking statements", including PepsiCo's 2009 guidance, are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: PepsiCo's ability to enter into definitive agreements with respect to the proposed transactions (the "Proposed Transactions") with The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. ("PBG") and PepsiAmericas, Inc. ("PAS"); PepsiCo's ability to achieve the synergies and value creation contemplated by the Proposed Transactions; PepsiCo's ability to promptly and effectively integrate the businesses of PBG, PAS and PepsiCo; the timing to consummate the Proposed Transactions and any necessary actions to obtain required regulatory approvals; the diversion of management time on transaction-related issues; changes in demand for PepsiCo's products, as a result of shifts in consumer preferences or otherwise; increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies; unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates; PepsiCo's ability to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement its ongoing business process transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively; damage to PepsiCo's reputation; trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with PepsiCo's bottling partners, including as a result of the Proposed Transactions; PepsiCo's ability to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce; changes in the legal and regulatory environment; disruption of PepsiCo's supply chain; unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where PepsiCo operates; and risks that benefits from the Productivity for Growth initiative may not be achieved, may take longer to achieve than expected or may cost more than currently anticipated. For additional information on these and other factors that could cause PepsiCo's actual results to materially differ from those set forth herein, please see PepsiCo's filings with the SEC, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. PepsiCo undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Miscellaneous Disclosures
Conference Call. At 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss second-quarter 2009 results and the outlook for full-year 2009. For details, visit the company's website at , under "Financial News" in the "Investors" section.
www.pepsico.com
Reconciliation. In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found in the attached exhibits, as well as on the company's website at , under "Financial News" in the "Investors" section. Our non-GAAP measures exclude from
www.pepsico.com
 
reported results those items that management believes are not indicative of our ongoing performance and how management evaluates our operating results and trends.
Glossary
: Volume shipped to retailers and independent distributors from both PepsiCo and our bottlers.
Beverage volume
Core results are non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the commodity mark-to-market net impact included in corporate unallocated expenses and certain restructuring actions in 2009 for restructuring actions associated with the company's Productivity for Growth initiative. Core EPS guidance for 2009 excludes commodity mark-to-market net impact and costs of $36 million ($29 million, after-tax) associated with the Productivity for Growth initiative. For more details and reconciliations of our core results, see "Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information" in the exhibits attached hereto.
Core:
: Financial results (historical and projected) assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for translation based on the rates in effect for the comparable period during 2008. In addition, the impact on EPS growth is computed by adjusting core EPS growth by the after-tax foreign currency translation impact on core operating profit growth using PepsiCo's core effective tax rate.
Constant currency
: The aggregation of the operating profit for each of our reportable segments, which excludes the impact of corporate unallocated expenses.
Division operating profit
: The combined impact of mix and price.
Effective net pricing
: Change in market value for commodity contracts that we purchase to mitigate the volatility in costs of energy and raw materials that we consume. The market value is determined based on average prices on national exchanges and recently reported transactions in the marketplace.
Mark-to-market gain or loss or net impact
: The combined impact of list price changes, weight changes per package, discounts and allowances.
Net pricing
: Capital spending less cash proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment.
Net capital spending
The impact of list price changes and weight changes per package.
Pricing:
: The foreign exchange impact on our financial results of transactions, such as purchases of imported raw materials, commodities, or services, occurring in currencies other than the local, functional currency.
Transaction foreign exchange
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Division operating profit, core results and core results on a constant currency basis are non-GAAP financial measures as they exclude certain items noted below. However, we believe investors should consider these measures as they are more indicative of our ongoing performance and with how management evaluates our operational results and trends.
In the 12 weeks ended June 13, 2009, we recognized $100 million of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. In the 12 weeks ended June 14, 2008, we recognized $61 million of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. In the full-year 2008, we recognized $346 million of mark-to-market net losses on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. Certain of these commodity derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and are marked to market with the resulting gains and losses recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions take delivery of the underlying commodity.
As a result of our previously initiated Productivity for Growth program, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $11 million in the 12 weeks ended June 13, 2009. In the full-year 2008, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $543 million in connection with this program. The program includes actions in all segments of the business, including the closure of six plants that we believe will increase cost competitiveness across the supply chain, upgrade and streamline our product portfolio and simplify the organization for more effective and timely decision-making.
In addition, in the full-year 2008, PBG implemented a restructuring initiative across all of its geographic segments. PBG also recognized an asset impairment charge related to its business in Mexico. Consequently, in 2008, we recorded a non-cash charge of $138 million, included in bottling equity income, as part of recording our share of PBG's financial results.
Additionally, management operating cash flow and management operating cash flow growth are the primary measures management uses to monitor cash flow performance. They are not measures defined by GAAP. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities.
We believe investors should consider the following non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our second quarter results:
We believe investors should consider the following non-GAAP financial measure with respect to our 2009 and 2008 year-to-date results:
We believe investors should consider the following non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our projected 2009 full-year results and our 2008 full-year results:
We are not able to reconcile our full-year projected 2009 constant currency results to our full-year projected 2009 reported results because we are unable to predict the 2009 full-year impact of foreign exchange or the mark-to-market net gains or losses on commodity hedges due to the unpredictability of future changes in foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. Therefore, we are unable to provide a reconciliation of these measures.
 
Operating Profit Growth Reconciliation
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation
Diluted EPS Reconciliation
 
Diluted EPS Reconciliation
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation (in billions)
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation
 
 
 
 


