FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20091008074338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 is a copy of the press release issued by PepsiCo, Inc. ("PepsiCo"), dated October 8, 2009, reporting PepsiCo's financial results for the 12 and 36 weeks ended September 5, 2009.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PURCHASE, N.Y. (Oct. 8, 2009)  PepsiCo, Inc. (NYSE: PEP) today reported solid profit performance in the third quarter of 2009, reflecting the company's balanced approach to investing in value and innovation in key markets as well as productivity and cost discipline across its businesses. Reported EPS was $1.09, and in constant currency the company delivered 5 percent net revenue growth and an 8 percent increase in core EPS.
Indra Nooyi, PepsiCo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said "PepsiCo's diversified food and beverage portfolio and our advantaged business model continued to drive solid results this quarter. Our teams around the world leveraged PepsiCo's agile go-to-market system to deliver our brands at differentiated value to consumers, who are still feeling the pinch of the global recession despite improving macroeconomic indicators.
"We will continue to make targeted investments across our entire portfolio, and we expect these to ramp up next year as we begin to realize the benefits of the integration of our two anchor bottlers. These investments in innovation, infrastructure, key markets and people development, coupled with our operating agility and focus, give me great confidence in both the near-and long-term growth prospects of PepsiCo," Nooyi continued.
 
 
Richard Goodman, PepsiCo Chief Financial Officer said, "As we prepare for 2010, we are targeting EPS growth of 11 to 13 percent in core constant currency. As we progress through 2010, if we do better than this range we will take the opportunity to make additional strategic broad-based investments in our business to enhance our competitiveness."
 
 
Operating Highlights:
Division Operating Summary
All references to net revenue and operating profit are on a constant currency basis.
delivered a 7 percent increase in net revenue and a 6 percent increase in operating profit growth.
PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF)
reported a 3 percent increase in volume and a 5 percent increase in both net revenue and operating profit. Volume growth reflected high-single-digit growth in brand Lay's, combined with strong gains in FLNA's joint venture with Sabra and in variety packs. Product innovation highlights included Baked Lay's inclusions, as well as successful additions of Sabritas-derived flavors to our Ruffles and Fritos lines. Operating profit growth in the quarter was impacted by investments in value and also by the overlapping of price increases in the year ago period. We expect that commodity inflation will continue to moderate through the year and FLNA will remain focused on value initiatives to grow market share.
Frito-Lay North America (FLNA)
grew volume and net revenue 8 percent, while operating profit declined 1 percent. Growth in volume and net revenue were favorably impacted by the overlap of last year's flood-related production disruptions at the key Cedar Rapids manufacturing facility. Growth in operating profit was adversely impacted by the overlap of the flood-related insurance settlement.
Quaker Foods North America (QFNA)
saw a 3 percent decline in volume, while net revenue increased 9 percent and operating profit grew 11 percent. Operating profit growth was muted by a one-time gain from a fire-related insurance settlement in the comparable prior year period. LAF's results reflected pricing actions, including weight-outs, disciplined cost control and productivity improvements across the region, all of which helped to offset commodity and foreign-exchange-related input cost inflation.
Latin America Foods (LAF)
 
In Mexico, Sabritas and Gamesa both gained value share while delivering strong gains in operating profit. At Sabritas, a sequential improvement in salty volume was driven by the success of its value-oriented, salty-snack innovation as well as its Spinners promotion. In South America, there were broad-based value and volume share gains in key markets like Brazil, Argentina and Colombia.
performance reflected the continued softness in the overall liquid refreshment beverage category in North America, recording a 6 percent decline in volume, 7 percent decline in net revenue and a 5 percent decline in operating profit. PAB continues to make progress on the company's ongoing strategy to refresh its beverage business in North America and the overall liquid refreshment beverage category.
PepsiCo Americas Beverages' (PAB)
In the U.S., PAB took the number one volume and value share position in carbonated beverages in measured channels. In non-carbonated beverages, the enhanced water portfolio gained share in the quarter, reflecting high-double-digit volume gains in SoBe LifeWater, and energy drink volume was also up double digits. While Gatorade volumes were down, this reflected modest improvement versus the first half of the year as expected. G2 continues to do well with the highest repeat purchase rate of any new LRB product in the past two years.
delivered another strong quarter with net revenue up 13 percent and operating profit up 31 percent.
PepsiCo International (PI)
While the macroeconomic environment continued to be challenging in Europe this quarter, drove margin expansion and profitability by balancing revenue growth, tight cost controls and productivity gains. Net revenue grew 12 percent and operating profit grew 18 percent. Acquisitions contributed 10 percentage points to net revenue growth and 6 percentage points to operating profit growth.
Europe
Europe snacks volume declined 1 percent, reflecting pricing actions and weight-outs to offset commodity inflation. Acquisitions contributed 3 percentage points of growth. In the U.K., Walkers grew value share through disciplined pricing and its "Brit Trips" promotion, while in Russia the continued success of "locally relevant" flavor innovation on Lay's and the Hrusteam crispbread product drove share gains.
Europe beverage volume grew 9 percent, driven by the Lebedyansky acquisition. Solid improvement in Western Europe and Turkey also contributed to a sequential improvement in volume growth.
 
net revenue grew 13 percent and operating profit improved 52 percent. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth and 34 percentage points to operating profit growth primarily due to a one-time gain associated with the contribution of our snacks business in Japan to form a joint venture with Calbee Foods Company, the snacks market leader in Japan. The solid operating profit performance excluding this impact was driven by strong flow-through from the growth in volume and cost discipline across the businesses.
Asia/Middle East/Africa (AMEA)
AMEA beverage volume grew 9 percent. India delivered very strong volume growth across carbonated soft drinks and non-carbonated beverages as targeted investments in infrastructure, significant improvements in market execution and unseasonably dry weather conditions all contributed to better than 50 percent growth in the country. In China, sequential volume improvement in the quarter was driven by share gains in juice, particularly Tropicana's GuoBinFen line of locally relevant juice drinks, as well as by Gatorade. PepsiCo continues to drive expanded distribution of key beverage products in China including Pepsi Max, Lipton ready-to-drink tea and Tropicana Juicy Pulp Sacs.
AMEA snacks volume grew 8 percent, more than double its growth in the previous quarter. Strong sequential improvement resulted from broad-based geographic growth in India, South Africa and other emerging markets. In India, PepsiCo launched Aliva, a savory cracker product; and in Australia, the company launched Grainwaves, a multi-grain salty snack, augmenting its health and wellness portfolio in the country.
Beverage System Transformation
The company is on-track with its plans to acquire its two anchor bottlers The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG) and PepsiAmericas, Inc (PAS), subject to regulatory and stockholder approval. The company filed its Form S-4 Registration Statements in preliminary form on October 1, 2009 and still expects to close on the proposed transactions by late 2009 or early 2010.
Tax Rate
PepsiCo's reported tax rate was 24.9 percent for the third quarter, primarily reflecting the favorable resolution of certain foreign tax matters and certain deferred tax adjustments in the current quarter. Excluding the impact of items affecting comparability, PepsiCo's core tax rate was 24.7 percent for the third quarter. The company expects its full-year reported and core tax rates to be about 26 percent.
Cash Flow
The year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $4.4 billion, compared to $4.7 billion in the prior year period; 2009 reflects both a discretionary $1 billion contribution to PepsiCo's pension fund and $183 million of cash payments associated with the program.
Productivity for Growth
 
Excluding the impact of its $1 billion discretionary pension contribution (approximately $640 million after-tax) cash from operating activities is expected to be about $7 billion. The company expects to invest about $2.1 billion in net capital spending.
Fiscal 2009 and 2010 Guidance
The company reaffirms its full-year 2009 guidance for both net revenue and core EPS of mid-to high-single-digit core constant currency EPS growth off of fiscal 2008's core EPS of $3.68. Based on current spot rates, foreign exchange translation would represent a mid-single-digit percentage point adverse impact on the company's full-year, core constant currency EPS. Because the company expects to close on the proposed acquisitions of PBG and PAS in late 2009 or early 2010, the company's 2009 guidance does not include the impact of the proposed acquisitions. The company did not repurchase any of its shares in the third quarter and does not expect to repurchase any shares in its fourth quarter.
For fiscal 2010 the company is targeting an 11 to 13 percent growth rate for core constant currency EPS off of expected fiscal 2009 core EPS. This includes the modest year-one accretion related to the proposed acquisitions of PBG and PAS that the company disclosed on August 4, 2009 and the potential benefits from the acquisition-related accounting disclosed in the company's Form S-4 Registration Statements filed in preliminary form on October 1, 2009. This target excludes one-time costs to achieve the synergies and it assumes the company completes its acquisition of PBG and PAS by early fiscal 2010.
Please refer to the glossary for more information about the items excluded from the company's fiscal 2009 and 2010 constant currency core EPS guidance.
The company has not yet received regulatory or shareholder approval for the acquisitions or comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission on its Form S-4 Registration Statements or with respect to its proposed accounting treatment of the acquisitions. In addition, the company is still in the process of completing its annual planning process and its integration planning. Any of these factors, as well as the risks described under "Cautionary Statement" later in this release, the risks described in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K and in the company's Form S-4 Registration Statements with respect to the acquisitions could materially adversely impact the company's ability to achieve these results.
About PepsiCo
PepsiCo offers the world's largest portfolio of billion-dollar food and beverage brands, including 18 different product lines that each generate more than $1 billion in annual retail sales. Our main businesses  Frito-Lay, Quaker, Pepsi-Cola, Tropicana and Gatorade  also make hundreds of other nourishing, tasty foods and drinks that bring joy to our consumers in over 200 countries. With more than $43 billion in 2008 revenues, PepsiCo employs 198,000 people who are united by our unique commitment to sustainable growth, called Performance with Purpose. By dedicating ourselves to offering a broad array of choices for healthy, convenient and fun nourishment, reducing our environmental impact, and fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace culture,
 
PepsiCo balances strong financial returns with giving back to our communities worldwide. For more information, please visit .
www.pepsico.com
Cautionary Statement
Statements in this release that are "forward-looking statements", including PepsiCo's 2009 and 2010 guidance, are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: PepsiCo's ability to consummate the acquisitions of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. ("PBG") and PepsiAmericas, Inc. ("PAS"); PepsiCo's ability to achieve the synergies and value creation contemplated by the proposed acquisitions; loss of key employees or customers or other business disruption as a result of the proposed acquisitions; PepsiCo's ability to promptly and effectively integrate the businesses of PBG, PAS and PepsiCo; the timing to consummate the proposed acquisitions and any necessary actions to obtain required regulatory approvals; the diversion of management time on transaction-related issues; increased indebtedness as a result of the proposed acquisitions; changes in demand for PepsiCo's products, as a result of shifts in consumer preferences or otherwise; increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies; unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates; PepsiCo's ability to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement its ongoing business process transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively; damage to PepsiCo's reputation; trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with PepsiCo's bottling partners, including as a result of the Proposed Transactions; PepsiCo's ability to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce; changes in the legal and regulatory environment; disruption of PepsiCo's supply chain; unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where PepsiCo operates; and risks that benefits from the Productivity for Growth initiative may not be achieved, may take longer to achieve than expected or may cost more than currently anticipated. For additional information on these and other factors that could cause PepsiCo's actual results to materially differ from those set forth herein, please see PepsiCo's filings with the SEC, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. PepsiCo undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Miscellaneous Disclosures
Conference Call. At 8:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss third-quarter 2009 results and the outlook for full-year 2009 and 2010. For details, visit the company's website at , in the "Investors" section.
www.pepsico.com
Reconciliation. In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the
 
most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found in the attached exhibits, as well as on the company's website at , in the "Investors" section. Our non-GAAP measures exclude from reported results those items that management believes are not indicative of our ongoing performance and how management evaluates our operating results and trends.
www.pepsico.com
Glossary
: Volume shipped to retailers and independent distributors from both PepsiCo and our bottlers.
Beverage volume
Core results are non-GAAP financial measures. 2009 year-to-date core results exclude the commodity mark-to-market net impact included in corporate unallocated expenses and certain restructuring actions in 2009 for restructuring actions associated with the company's Productivity for Growth initiative. 2009 year-to-date core results also exclude costs associated with our proposed merger with PBG and PAS included in corporate unallocated expenses, as well as our share of PBG's and PAS's respective merger costs included in bottling equity income. Core EPS guidance for full-year 2009 excludes the commodity mark-to-market net impact included in corporate unallocated expenses, costs of $36 million ($29 million, after-tax) associated with the Productivity for Growth initiative, the merger costs and the impact of the proposed transactions with PBG and PAS. Core EPS guidance for full-year 2010 excludes the commodity mark-to-market net impact included in corporate unallocated expenses, estimated one-time costs of approximately $250 million to achieve synergies, the gain or loss on previously held equity interests in PBG and PAS, the post-merger one-time impact to earnings of fair value adjustments to acquired inventory, any additional restructuring or integration costs and transaction costs related to the proposed acquisitions of PBG and PAS. For more details and reconciliations of our 2009 core results and 2009 and 2010 constant currency core EPS guidance, see "Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information" in the exhibits attached hereto.
Core:
: Financial results (historical and projected) assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for translation based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In addition, the impact on EPS growth is computed by adjusting core EPS growth by the after-tax foreign currency translation impact on core operating profit growth using PepsiCo's core effective tax rate.
Constant currency
: The aggregation of the operating profit for each of our reportable segments, which excludes the impact of corporate unallocated expenses.
Division operating profit
: The combined impact of mix and price.
Effective net pricing
: Change in market value for commodity contracts that we purchase to mitigate the volatility in costs of energy and raw materials that we consume. The market value is determined based on average prices on national exchanges and recently reported transactions in the marketplace.
Mark-to-market gain or loss or net impact
: The combined impact of list price changes, weight changes per package, discounts and allowances.
Net pricing
 
: Capital spending less cash proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment.
Net capital spending
The impact of list price changes and weight changes per package.
Pricing:
: The foreign exchange impact on our financial results of transactions, such as purchases of imported raw materials, commodities, or services, occurring in currencies other than the local, functional currency.
Transaction foreign exchange
 
 
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Division operating profit, core results and core results on a constant currency basis are non-GAAP financial measures as they exclude certain items noted below. However, we believe investors should consider these measures as they are more indicative of our ongoing performance and with how management evaluates our operational results and trends.
In the 12 and 36 weeks ended September 5, 2009, we recognized $29 million and $191 million, respectively, of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. In the 12 and 36 weeks ended September 6, 2008, we recognized $176 million and $119 million, respectively, of mark-to-market net losses on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. In the full-year 2008, we recognized $346 million of mark-to-market net losses on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. Certain of these commodity derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and are marked to market with the resulting gains and losses recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions take delivery of the underlying commodity.
In the 12 weeks ended September 5, 2009, we incurred $1 million of costs associated with the proposed mergers with PBG and PAS, as well as an additional $8 million of costs, representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS, recorded in bottling equity income.
As a result of our previously initiated Productivity for Growth program, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $36 million in the 36 weeks ended September 5, 2009. In the full-year 2008, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $543 million in connection with this program. The program includes actions in all segments of the business, including the closure of six plants that we believe will increase cost competitiveness across the supply chain, upgrade and streamline our product portfolio and simplify the organization for more effective and timely decision-making.
In addition, in the full-year 2008, PBG implemented a restructuring initiative across all of its geographic segments. PBG also recognized an asset impairment charge related to its business in Mexico. Consequently, in 2008, we recorded a non-cash charge of $138 million, included in bottling equity income, as part of recording our share of PBG's financial results.
Additionally, management operating cash flow and management operating cash flow growth are the primary measures management uses to monitor cash flow performance. They are not measures defined by GAAP. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities.
We believe investors should consider the following non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our third quarter results:
We believe investors should consider the following non-GAAP financial measure with respect to our year-to-date results:
 
We believe investors should consider the following non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our projected 2009 full-year results and our 2008 full-year results:
We are not able to reconcile our full-year projected 2009 core constant currency results to our full-year projected 2009 reported results because we are unable to predict the 2009 full-year impact of foreign exchange or the mark-to-market net gains or losses on commodity hedges due to the unpredictability of future changes in foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. Therefore, we are unable to provide a reconciliation of these measures. Because the company expects to close on the proposed acquisitions of PBG and PAS in late 2009 or early 2010, the company's fiscal 2009 guidance does not include the impact of the proposed acquisitions.
We are not able to reconcile our full-year projected 2010 core constant currency EPS to our full-year projected 2010 reported results because we are unable to predict the 2010 full-year impact of foreign exchange or the mark-to-market net gains or losses on commodity hedges due to the unpredictability of future changes in foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. Additionally, with respect to our proposed transactions with PBG and PAS, we are unable to predict the 2010 full-year impact of the gain or loss on previously held equity interests in PBG and PAS, the post-merger one-time impact to earnings of fair value adjustments to acquired inventory, any additional restructuring or integration costs and transaction costs related to the proposed acquisitions of PBG and PAS due to the uncertainty of the amounts and/or timing of such items. Therefore, we are unable to provide a reconciliation of these measures.
 
Operating Profit Growth Reconciliation
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation
 
Diluted EPS Reconciliation
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation (in billions)
 
Diluted EPS Reconciliation
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
 
 


