FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20090211143535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
(e) PepsiCo, Inc. grants various awards to its executive officers under the shareholder-approved PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The forms of award agreements pursuant to which the executive officers may receive awards, commencing with the February 6, 2009 annual award, are attached hereto as exhibits and are hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.1
     These Terms and Conditions, along with the PepsiCo Annual Long-Term Incentive Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary), by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted to it in the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on or prior to the Grant Date, authorized the grant to the Participant of the stock options and/or restricted stock units set forth on the Award Summary; and
     WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
     NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
     A. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the stock options, if any, granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Stock Options
          1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company and agreeing to be bound by the covenants of Paragraph C, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the right and option to purchase the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, par value $.0167 per share, indicated on the Award Summary, at the Grant/Exercise Price per share indicated on the Award Summary (the "Option Exercise Price"), which was the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of PepsiCo Common Stock on the Grant Date, rounded up to the nearest one-fourth. The right to purchase each such share is referred to herein as an "Option." All Options granted hereunder shall be "Non-Qualified Stock Options" as defined in the Plan.
Grant
          2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Options shall become fully vested on the vesting date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Vesting Date") and shall be exercisable from the Vesting Date through the expiration date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Expiration Date"). Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Once vested and exercisable, and until terminated, all or any portion of the Options may be exercised from time to time and at any time under procedures that the Committee or its delegate shall establish from time to time, including, without limitation, procedures regarding the frequency of exercise and the minimum number of Options which may be exercised at any time.
Vesting and Exercisability
 
          3. . Subject to terms and conditions set forth herein, Options may be exercised by giving written notice of exercise to PepsiCo in the manner specified from time to time by PepsiCo. The aggregate Option Exercise Price for the shares being purchased, together with any amount which the Company may be required to withhold upon such exercise in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of issuance of such shares.
Exercise Procedure
          4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
               (a) . Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, no vesting shall occur following the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company, and all unvested Options shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. Only vested Options may be exercised. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), vested Options shall be exercisable until, and shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon, the earlier of the Expiration Date and the date that is the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange during the 90-calendar day period after the date the Participant's employment with the Company terminates. It is intended that an authorized severance leave of absence may extend employment for purposes of determining the period when vested Options may be exercised. However, an authorized severance leave of absence will not be treated as active employment, and, as a result, vesting of unvested Options will not be extended by any such period.
Termination of Employment
               (b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below) prior to attaining at least age 62, then: (i) a portion of the Options shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such portion determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date; (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(b); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Retirement Prior to Age 62
               (c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then: (i) the Options shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability); (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(c); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative (or any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution), in the event of death, or the Participant, in the event of Retirement or Total Disability, prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
               (d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Options shall continue to vest and to become exercisable after such transfer and shall remain outstanding and be exercisable in accordance with this Agreement by treating the Participant's employment with the Related Entity as employment with the Company for purposes of this Agreement.
Transfers to a Related Entity
 
          5. . Except as provided in Paragraph D.2, at any time after any Option becomes exercisable, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, to cancel such Option and to cause PepsiCo to pay to the Participant the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by such Option over the Option Exercise Price of such Option as of the date the Committee provides written notice (the "Buy Out Notice") of its intention to exercise such right. Payments of such buy out amounts pursuant to this provision shall be effected by PepsiCo as promptly as possible after the date of the Buy Out Notice and shall be made in shares of Common Stock. The number of shares shall be the greatest number of whole shares determined by dividing the amount of the payment to be made by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of the Buy Out Notice. Payments of any such buy out amounts shall be made net of the minimum applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local withholding taxes, if any.
Buy-Out of Option Gains
          6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Options granted hereunder unless and until such Options are exercised and the shares have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
     B. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the restricted stock units, if any, granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Restricted Stock Units
          1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company and agreeing to be bound by the covenants of Paragraph C, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the number of restricted stock units indicated on the Award Summary (the "Restricted Stock Units").
Grant
          2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and subparagraphs 2(a) and (b) below, the Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested on the Vesting Date and shall be paid as soon as practicable after that date. Restricted Stock Units may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. The Restricted Stock Units payable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be reduced by any Restricted Stock Units that are paid pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b) below.
Vesting
               (a) . A Participant shall be vested in 33% of his Restricted Stock Units on the first February 1 that follows the Grant Date if on such February 1 the Participant: (i) is eligible for Retirement, (ii) is not yet age 62, and (iii) has been actively employed by the Company continuously since the Grant Date. This vested portion shall be paid as soon as practicable after this February 1. A Participant shall be vested in 66% of his Restricted Stock Units on the second February 1 that follows the Grant Date if on such February 1 the conditions in (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Paragraph B.2(a) are satisfied. This vested portion shall be paid as soon as practicable after this second February 1 (net of any Restricted Stock Units previously paid out).
Eligibility for Retirement Prior to Age 62
               (b) . A Participant shall be fully vested in his Restricted Stock Units on the first February 1 that follows the Grant Date if on such February 1 the Participant: (i) is eligible for Retirement, (ii) is at least age 62, and (iii) has been actively employed by the Company continuously since the Grant Date. The Participant's Restricted Stock Units shall be paid as soon as practicable after this February 1. A Participant shall be fully vested in his Restricted Stock Units on the second February 1 that follows the Grant Date if on such February 1 the conditions in (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Paragraph B.2(b) are satisfied. The
Eligibility for Retirement on or After Age 62
 
Participant's Restricted Stock Units shall be paid as soon as practicable after this second February 1 (net of any Restricted Stock Units previously paid out).
          3. . Restricted Stock Units that vest and become payable shall be settled in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock with the Participant receiving one share of PepsiCo Common Stock for each vested Restricted Stock Unit. No fractional shares shall be delivered under this Agreement, and so any fractional share that may be payable shall be rounded to the nearest whole share. Any amount that the Company may be required to withhold upon the settlement of Restricted Stock Units and/or the payment of dividend equivalents (see Paragraph B.5 below) in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of the issuance of shares or payment of cash. Unless the Participant makes other arrangements to satisfy this withholding obligation in accordance with procedures approved by the Company in its discretion, the Company shall withhold shares to satisfy the required withholding obligation related to the settlement of Restricted Stock Units.
Payment
          4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
               (a) . Restricted Stock Units may vest and become payable only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, vesting ceases upon the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall automatically be forfeited and canceled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. An authorized severance leave of absence will not be treated as active employment, and, as a result, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units will not be extended by any such period.
Termination of Employment
               (b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement prior to attaining age 62, then a whole number of Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such number determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date, and shall be paid as soon as practicable after that date (net of any Restricted Stock Units previously paid out).
Retirement Prior to Age 62
               (c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then the Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability) and will be paid as soon as practicable after that date (net of any Restricted Stock Units previously paid out).
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
               (d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to vest (and their time of payment shall be determined) after such transfer by treating the Participant's employment with the Related Entity as employment with the Company for purposes of this Agreement.
Transfers to a Related Entity
          5. . During the vesting period, the Participant shall accumulate dividend equivalents with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, which dividend equivalents shall be paid in cash (without interest) to the Participant only if and when the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest and become payable. Dividend equivalents shall equal the dividends actually
Dividend Equivalents
 
paid with respect to PepsiCo Common Stock during the vesting period while (and to the extent) the Restricted Stock Units remain outstanding and unpaid.
          6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder unless and until such Restricted Stock Units have been settled in shares of Common Stock that have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
     C. .
Prohibited Conduct
          In consideration of the Company disclosing and providing access to Confidential Information, as more fully described in Paragraph C.2 below, after the date hereof, the grant by the Company of the Options and Restricted Stock Units, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Participant and the Company, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows.
          1. . The Participant hereby covenants and agrees that at all times during his or her employment with the Company and for a period of twelve months after the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including a termination due to the Participant's Retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not, without the prior written consent of PepsiCo's chief personnel officer or chief legal officer, either directly or indirectly, for himself/herself or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, partnership, corporation or other entity, engage in any activities prohibited in the following Paragraphs C.1(a) through (c):
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
               (a) The Participant shall not, in any country in which the Company operates, accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or provide services in any capacity or acquire any ownership interest which involves the Participant's Participation in an entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company;
               (b) With respect to Covered Products, the Participant shall not directly or indirectly solicit for competitive business purposes any customer or Prospective Customer of the Company called on, serviced by, or contacted by the Participant in any capacity during his or her employment; or
               (c) The Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
          2. . In order to assist the Participant with his or her duties, the Company shall continue to provide the Participant with access to confidential and proprietary operational information and other confidential information which is either information not known by actual or potential competitors, customers and third parties of the Company or is proprietary information of the Company ("Confidential Information"). Such Confidential Information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such Confidential Information include,
Non-Disclosure
 
without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations, structure and methods of operation; its product lines, formulae and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its production techniques; its financial data; its advertising and promotional ideas and strategy; information maintained in its computer systems; devices, processes, compilations of information and records; and its plans and strategies. The Participant agrees that such Confidential Information remains confidential even if committed to the Participant's memory. The Participant agrees, during the term of his or her employment and at all times thereafter, not to use, divulge, or furnish or make accessible to any third party, company, corporation or other organization (including but not limited to, customers, competitors, or governmental agencies), without the Company's prior written consent, any Confidential Information of the Company, except as necessary in his or her position with the Company.
          3. . The Participant agrees that whenever the Participant's employment with the Company ends for any reason, (a) all documents containing or referring to the Company's Confidential Information as may be in the Participant's possession, or over which the Participant may have control, and all other property of the Company provided to the Participant by the Company during the course of the Participant's employment with the Company will be returned by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required; and (b) all Company computer and computer-related equipment and software, and all Company property, files, records, documents, drawings, specifications, lists, equipment, and similar items relating to the business of the Company, whether prepared by the Participant or otherwise, coming into the Participant's possession or control during the course of his employment shall remain the exclusive property of the Company, and shall be delivered by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required.
Return of Confidential Information and Company Property
          4. . The Participant shall not engage in any of the following acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests during the term of his or her employment with the Company: (a) violating the Company's Code of Conduct, Insider Trading Policy or any other written policies of the Company, (b) unlawfully trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or (c) engaging in any activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
          5. . The Participant agrees that: (a) the terms and provisions of this Agreement are reasonable and constitute an otherwise enforceable agreement to which the terms and provisions of this Paragraph C are ancillary or a part of; (b) the consideration provided by the Company under this Agreement is not illusory; (c) the restrictions contained in this Paragraph C are necessary and reasonable for the protection of the legitimate business interests and goodwill of the Company; and (d) the consideration given by the Company under this Agreement, including, without limitation, the provision by the Company of Confidential Information to the Participant, gives rise to the Company's interest in the covenants set forth in this Paragraph C.
Reasonableness of Provisions
          6. . The Participant specifically recognizes and affirms that each of the covenants contained in Paragraphs C.1 through C.4 of this Agreement is a material and important term of this Agreement which has induced the Company to provide for the award of the Options and/or Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder, the disclosure of Confidential Information referenced herein, and the other promises made by the Company herein. The Participant further agrees that in the event that (i) the Company determines that the Participant
Repayment and Forfeiture
 
has breached any term of Paragraphs C.1 through C.4 or (ii) all or any part of Paragraph C is held or found invalid or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever by a court of competent jurisdiction in an action between the Participant and the Company, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
               (a) Cancel any unexercised Options or unpaid Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder;
               (b) Require the Participant to pay to the Company all gains realized from the exercise of any Options granted hereunder; and/or
               (c) Require the Participant to pay to the Company the value (determined as of the Payment Date) of any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder that have been paid out.
          7. . In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached or attempted or threatened to breach any term of Paragraph C, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, it is agreed that the Company shall be entitled, upon application to any court of proper jurisdiction, to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction (without the necessity of (a) proving irreparable harm, (b) establishing that monetary damages are inadequate or (c) posting any bond with respect thereto) against the Participant prohibiting such breach or attempted or threatened breach by proving only the existence of such breach or attempted or threatened breach.
Equitable Relief
          8. . The Participant agrees that the period during which the covenants contained in this Paragraph C shall be effective shall be computed by excluding from such computation any time during which the Participant is in violation of any provision of Paragraph C.
Extension of Restrictive Period
          9. . The Company and the Participant agree that it was their intent to enter into a valid and enforceable agreement. The Participant and the Company thereby acknowledge the reasonableness of the restrictions set forth in Paragraph C, including the reasonableness of the geographic area, duration as to time and scope of activity restrained. The Participant further acknowledges that his or her skills are such that he or she can be gainfully employed in noncompetitive employment and that the agreement not to compete will not prevent him or her from earning a living. The Participant agrees that if any covenant contained in Paragraph C of this Agreement is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to contain limitations as to time, geographical area, or scope of activity that are not reasonable and impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill or other business interest of the Company, then the court shall reform the covenant to the extent necessary to cause the limitations contained in the covenant as to time, geographical area, and scope of activity to be restrained to be reasonable and to impose a restraint that is not greater than necessary to protect the goodwill and other business interests of the Company and to enforce the covenants as reformed.
Acknowledgments
          10. . The covenants on the part of the Participant in this Paragraph C shall be construed as an agreement independent of any other agreement, including any employee benefit agreement, and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of any claim or cause of action of the Participant against the Company, whether predicated upon this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of such covenants.
Provisions Independent
 
          11. . The Participant agrees that the Company may notify any person or entity employing the Participant or evidencing an intention of employing the Participant of the existence and provisions of this Agreement.
Notification of Subsequent Employer
          12. . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, any reference to "Company" in this Paragraph C shall be deemed to refer to such Related Entity in addition to the Company.
Transfers to a Related Entity
     D. .
Additional Terms and Conditions
          1. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, (a) the number and type of shares which the Participant may purchase pursuant to the Options and the Option Exercise Price at which the Participant may purchase such shares shall be adjusted, and (b) the number and type of shares to which the Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant relate shall be adjusted, in the case of (a) and (b), as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
          2. . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
               (a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder or (2) replaces the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Options and Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule that is the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule applicable to such Options and Restricted Stock Units, then the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to Paragraph D.2(c) below.
               (b) If the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph D.2(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms and the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be paid immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and (2), notwithstanding Paragraph D.2(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that, in the case of the Restricted Stock Units, is at least equal to the value of the consideration that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of PepsiCo's securities relating to such awards and, in the case of the outstanding Options, is at least equal to the excess, if any, of the value of such consideration over the Option Exercise Price for such Options.
 
               (c) If the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph D.2(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company (or, if applicable, a successor corporation) is terminated by the Company or such successor for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding until the Expiration Date and (2) the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be paid immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A. For purposes of this Paragraph D.2, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
          3. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Options and Restricted Stock Units are personal to the Participant and, with respect to Options, during the Participant's lifetime, such Options may be exercised only by the Participant, and (b) the Options and Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable or assignable, other than in the case of the Participant's death by will, the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported transfer or assignment shall be null and void.
Nontransferability
          4. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
               (a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks, and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
               (b) "Fair Market Value" of a share of PepsiCo Common Stock on any date shall mean an amount equal to the mean of the high and low sales prices for a share of PepsiCo Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. on the date in question (or if no sales of Common Stock were made on said Exchange on such date, on the next preceding day on which sales were made on such Exchange).
               (c) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
               (d) "Prospective Customer" shall mean any individual or entity of which the Participant has gained knowledge as a result of the Participant's employment with the Company and with which the Participant dealt with or had contact with during the six (6) months preceding his or her termination of employment with the Company.
 
               (e) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights at the relevant time.
               (f) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee.
               (g) "Total Disability" shall mean becoming totally and permanently disabled, as determined for purposes of the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (or in the absence of such Disability Plan being applicable to the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
          5. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
          6. .
Binding Effect
               (a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
               (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Options and Restricted Stock Units may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
          7. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment. This Agreement does not impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company to terminate the Participant's employment relationship at any time. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreement's Survival
          8. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
 
unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
          9. . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant without the Participant's written consent (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any such right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement.
Amendment; Waiver
          10. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
          11. . The Options, Restricted Stock Units and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Committee reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Options and Restricted Stock Units outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not, without the Participant's written consent, be adversely affected thereby (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment or termination is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Options or Restricted Stock Units permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
          12. By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that:
Participant Acknowledgements.
               (a) the Option and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Options and Restricted Stock Units already granted under the Plan);
               (b) the Participant has been provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan, the Options and the shares covered thereby, and the Restricted Stock Units;
 
               (c) stock options and restricted stock units are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and that the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Options and/or Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Agreement to require options, restricted stock units or other awards to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan;
               (d) upon exercise of the Options or vesting of Restricted Stock Units the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participant's wages;
               (e) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments;
               (f) in the event of termination of the Participant's employment, a severance or notice period to which the Participant may be entitled under local law and which follows the date of termination specified in a notice of termination or other document evidencing the termination of the Participant's employment will not be treated as active employment for purposes of this Agreement and, as a result, vesting of unvested Options or Restricted Stock Units will not be extended by any such period;
               (g) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock options and stock and the exercise of stock options, including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations; and, in the event that any of the Participant's Options or Restricted Stock Units, including any such awards previously granted, become subject to the Indian fringe benefit tax ("FBT"), the Participant will be responsible for the FBT imposed on such awards and consents to provide payment to the Company of the applicable FBT at the time such FBT is due in accordance with the procedures specified from time to time by the Company; and
               (h) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Options and Restricted Stock Units will not be subject to Code Section 409A. If, notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Options or Restricted Stock Units become subject to Code Section 409A, this Agreement will be modified to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that is necessary or appropriate for such Options or Restricted Stock Units to comply with Code Section 409A.
          13. . The Participant agrees, in the event that the Company in its reasonable judgment determines that the Participant owes the Company or any Related Entity any amount due to any loan, note, obligation or indebtedness, including but not limited to amounts owed to the Company pursuant to the Company's tax equalization program or the Company's policies with respect to travel and business expenses, and if the Participant has not satisfied such obligation(s), then the Company may instruct the plan administrator to withhold and/or sell shares of PepsiCo Common Stock acquired by the Participant upon exercise of his or her Options or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the Company may deduct funds equal to the amount of such obligation from other funds due to the Participant from the Company.
Right of Set-Off
          14. . The Participant hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any Plan documents, proxy materials, annual reports and other related documents. The Participant hereby consents to any and all procedures that the Company has
Electronic Delivery and Acceptance
 
established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of Plan documents (including documents relating to any programs adopted under the Plan), and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. Participant consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan, including any program adopted under the Plan.
          15. . Participant hereby acknowledges and consents to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data as described in this Paragraph D.15. Participant is not obliged to consent to such collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data. However, failure to provide the consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. The Company and Participant's employer hold certain personal information about Participant, that may include his/her name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other employee identification number, salary grade, hire data, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, or details of all options, restricted stock units or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, or unvested, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). PepsiCo and/or its subsidiaries will transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of Participant's participation in the Plan, and PepsiCo and/or any of its subsidiaries may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting PepsiCo in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. These recipients may be located throughout the world, including the United States. Participant's authorizes them to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Participant's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of shares of stock on Participant's behalf to a broker or other third party with whom Participant may elect to deposit any shares of stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. Participant may, at any time, review Data, require any necessary amendments to it or withdraw the consents herein in writing by contacting the Company; however, withdrawing consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan.
Data Privacy
          16. . The Participant agrees as a condition of this grant that, in the event that the Participant is subject to the Company's Stock Ownership or Exercise & Hold Guidelines, the Participant shall not sell any shares obtained upon exercise of the Options or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units unless such sale complies with the Stock Ownership and Exercise & Hold Guidelines as in effect from time to time.
Stock Ownership / Exercise & Hold Guidelines
          17. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs D.11 and D.12, this Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to conflict of law rules or principles.
Governing Law
          18. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs D.11 and D.12, any action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of or based on any right arising out of this Agreement may be brought against the Participant or the Company only in the courts of the State of New York or, if it has or can acquire jurisdiction, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and the Participant and the Company consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts) in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection to venue laid therein.
Choice of Venue
 
          19. . This Agreement contains all the understanding and agreements between the Participant and the Company regarding the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
Executive Name:
$
Grant Date:
Grant Price:
CORE ANNUAL AWARD
Restricted Stock Units: Stock Options:
CORE ANNUAL AWARD DETAILS
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD
$
US Dollar Value Core Annual Award: Percentage RSU: Restricted Stock Unit Award Value: Grant Price:
Number of Restricted Stock Units Granted: Vesting Date*:
STOCK OPTIONS AWARD
4x $
US Dollar Value Core Annual Award: Percentage Stock Options: Stock Option Award Value: Conversion Factor:
Stock Option Award Face Value: Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
Number of Options Granted: Vesting Date*: Expiration Date:
 
AWARD ACCEPTANCE
This PepsiCo Annual Long-Term Incentive Award ("Award") is not considered valid unless you accept it on or before [insert date 180 days after notification]. At the bottom of this Award Summary, you can indicate that you either "Accept" or "Reject" the Award. By pressing the "Accept" button below and accepting your Award, you acknowledge having received and read this Award Summary, the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan under which this Award was granted and you agree to comply with, and be bound by, the terms and conditions of the Plan, this Award Summary and the Terms and Conditions document. If you "Reject" this Award, the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours. Likewise, if you do not either "Accept" or "Reject" this Award on or before [insert date 180 days after notification], the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours.

Exhibit 10.2
     These Terms and Conditions, along with the PepsiCo Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary), by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted to it in the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on or prior to the Grant Date, authorized the grant to the Participant of the stock options and restricted stock units set forth on the Award Summary; and
     WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine;
     NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
     A. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the stock options granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Stock Options
          1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company and agreeing to be bound by the covenants of Paragraph C, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the right and option to purchase the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, par value $.0167 per share, indicated on the Award Summary, at the Grant/Exercise Price per share indicated on the Award Summary (the "Option Exercise Price"), which was the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of PepsiCo Common Stock on the Grant Date, rounded up to the nearest one-fourth. The right to purchase each such share is referred to herein as an "Option." All Options granted hereunder shall be "Non-Qualified Stock Options" as defined in the Plan.
Grant
          2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Options shall become fully vested on the vesting date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Vesting Date") and shall be exercisable from the Vesting Date through the expiration date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Expiration Date"). Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Once vested and exercisable, and until terminated, all or any portion of the Options may be exercised from time to time and at any time under procedures that the Committee or its delegate shall establish from time to time, including, without limitation,
Vesting and Exercisability
 
procedures regarding the frequency of exercise and the minimum number of Options which may be exercised at any time.
          3. . Subject to terms and conditions set forth herein, Options may be exercised by giving written notice of exercise to PepsiCo in the manner specified from time to time by PepsiCo. The aggregate Option Exercise Price for the shares being purchased, together with any amount which the Company may be required to withhold upon such exercise in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of issuance of such shares.
Exercise Procedure
          4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
               (a) . Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, no vesting shall occur following the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company, and all unvested Options shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. Only vested Options may be exercised. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), vested Options shall be exercisable until, and shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon, the earlier of the Expiration Date and the date that is the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange during the 90-calendar day period after the date the Participant's employment with the Company terminates. It is intended that an authorized severance leave of absence may extend employment for purposes of determining the period when vested Options may be exercised. However, an authorized severance leave of absence will not be treated as active employment, and, as a result, vesting of unvested Options will not be extended by any such period.
Termination of Employment
               (b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below) prior to attaining at least age 62, then: (i) a portion of the Options shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such portion determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date (the "Vesting Period"); (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(b); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Retirement Prior to Age 62
               (c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then: (i) the Options shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability); (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(c); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative (or any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution), in the event of death, or the Participant, in the event of Retirement or Total Disability, prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
 
               (d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Options shall continue to vest and to become exercisable after such transfer and shall remain outstanding and be exercisable in accordance with this Agreement by treating the Participant's employment with the Related Entity as employment with the Company for purposes of this Agreement.
Transfers to a Related Entity
          5. . Except as provided in Paragraph D.2, at any time after any Option becomes exercisable, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, to cancel such Option and to cause PepsiCo to pay to the Participant the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by such Option over the Option Exercise Price of such Option as of the date the Committee provides written notice (the "Buy Out Notice") of its intention to exercise such right. Payments of such buy out amounts pursuant to this provision shall be effected by PepsiCo as promptly as possible after the date of the Buy Out Notice and shall be made in shares of Common Stock. The number of shares shall be the greatest number of whole shares determined by dividing the amount of the payment to be made by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of the Buy Out Notice. Payments of any such buy out amounts shall be made net of the minimum applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local withholding taxes, if any.
Buy-Out of Option Gains
          6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Options granted hereunder unless and until such Options are exercised and the shares have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
     B. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the restricted stock units granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Restricted Stock Units
          1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company and agreeing to be bound by the covenants of Paragraph C, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the target number of restricted stock units indicated on the Award Summary (the "Restricted Stock Units"). All Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are intended to be Performance Awards (as defined in the Plan) that satisfy the conditions for the Performance Based Exception (as defined in the Plan) under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
Grant
          2. . Subject to Paragraphs B.3 and B.4 below, the Restricted Stock Units earned in accordance with Paragraph B.3 shall vest on the Vesting Date and be paid as soon as practicable after such date (the "Payment Date"). Restricted Stock Units that become earned and payable shall be settled in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock with the Participant receiving one share of PepsiCo Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit earned. No fractional shares shall be delivered under this Agreement, and so any fractional share that may be payable shall be rounded to the nearest whole share. Any amount that the Company may be required to withhold upon the settlement of Restricted Stock Units and/or the payment of dividend equivalents (see Paragraph B.5 below) in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of the issuance of shares or payment of cash. Unless the Participant makes other arrangements to satisfy this withholding obligation in accordance with procedures approved by the Company in its discretion, the Company will withhold shares to satisfy the required withholding obligation related to the settlement of Restricted Stock Units.
Payment
 
          3. . The Participant can earn between 0% and 125% of the target number of Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder. The number of Restricted Stock Units that are earned and payable shall be determined based on the achievement of performance targets. Any Restricted Stock Units that are not earned in accordance with this Paragraph B.3 shall be forfeited and cancelled. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Restricted Stock Units shall be earned as follows:
Earning and Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units
               (a) One-third of the Restricted Stock Units shall be earned based on the achievement of specific 2009 performance targets. The specific performance targets and the percentage, between 0% and 125%, of the one-third of the target number of Restricted Stock Units that shall be earned based on the percent achievement of such performance targets shall be established by the Committee and communicated to the Participant in the first ninety (90) days of 2009.
               (b) One-third of the Restricted Stock Units shall be earned based on the achievement of specific 2010 performance targets. The specific performance targets and the percentage, between 0% and 125%, of the one-third of the target number of Restricted Stock Units that shall be earned based on the percent achievement of such performance targets shall be established by the Committee and communicated to the Participant in the first ninety (90) days of 2010.
               (c) One-third of the Restricted Stock Units shall be earned based on the achievement of specific 2011 performance targets. The specific performance targets and the percentage, between 0% and 125%, of the one-third of the target number of Restricted Stock Units that shall be earned based on the percent achievement of such performance targets shall be established by the Committee and communicated to the Participant in the first ninety (90) days of 2011.
               (d) Notwithstanding the achievement of any performance targets established under Paragraphs B.3(a), (b) and (c) above, the Committee has the discretion to reduce the number of Restricted Stock Units paid. In the case of a Participant's death or Total Disability (as defined below), the Committee's right to exercise this discretion shall expire with respect to each one-third of the Restricted Stock Units at the later of: (i) the Participant's death or Total Disability (whichever applies), or (ii) the date the Committee certifies the results for the specific performance targets that relate to such one-third of the Restricted Stock Units, which certification shall occur within 60 days of the end of the related performance year. In all other cases, the Committee's right to exercise this discretion with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units earned shall continue until the date on which the Restricted Stock Units are paid to the Participant. Except in the case of death or Total Disability, the Restricted Stock Units for which a Participant has satisfied the performance criteria will be payable in one payment on the Payment Date.
          4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
               (a) . Restricted Stock Units may vest and become payable only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, vesting ceases upon the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall automatically be forfeited and canceled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates regardless of whether any such Restricted Stock Units have previously been earned in accordance with Paragraph B.3 above. An authorized severance leave of absence will not be treated as active employment, and, as a result, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units will not be extended by any such period.
Termination of Employment
 
               (b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below) prior to attaining at least age 62, then a whole number of the target Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such number determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the Vesting Period. All Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with the foregoing sentence shall remain subject to the earning and forfeiture provisions of Paragraphs B.2 and B.3 with subparagraphs 3(a), 3(b) or 3(c) of Paragraph B.3 each being applied to one-third of the Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with the foregoing sentence. For purposes of illustrating this subparagraph 4(b), if the Participant's active employment ends at the time half the Vesting Period has elapsed, one-half of the target Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder will vest pursuant to this subparagraph 4(b), equal thirds of which will be subject to the earning and forfeiture provisions established pursuant to subparagraphs 3(a), 3(b) and 3(c) of Paragraph B.3, and all of which shall be subject to subparagraph 3(d) of Paragraph B.3.
Retirement Prior to Age 62
               (c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability). All such vested Restricted Stock Units shall remain subject to the earning and forfeiture provisions of Paragraphs B.2 and B.3, except that in the case of death or Total Disability payment of each one-third of the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder will be made within fourteen (14) days after the Committee's right to exercise discretion with respect to such one-third expires in accordance with Paragraph B.3(d).
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
               (d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to vest (and their time of payment shall be determined) after such transfer by treating the Participant's employment with the Related Entity as employment with the Company for purposes of this Agreement. All such Restricted Stock Units shall remain subject to the earning and forfeiture provisions of Paragraphs B.2 and B.3.
Transfers to a Related Entity
          5. . During the Vesting Period, the Participant shall accumulate dividend equivalents with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, which dividend equivalents shall be paid in cash (without interest) to the Participant only if and when the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest and become payable. Dividend equivalents shall equal the dividends actually paid with respect to PepsiCo Common Stock during the Vesting Period while (and to the extent) the Restricted Stock Units remain outstanding and unpaid. For purposes of determining the dividend equivalents accumulated under this Paragraph B.5, any Restricted Stock Units that become payable hereunder shall be considered to have been outstanding from the Grant Date.
Dividend Equivalents
          6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder unless and until such Restricted Stock Units have been settled in shares of Common Stock that have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
 
     C. .
Prohibited Conduct
          In consideration of the Company disclosing and providing access to Confidential Information, as more fully described in Paragraph C.2 below, after the date hereof, the grant by the Company of the Options and Restricted Stock Units, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Participant and the Company, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows.
          1. . The Participant hereby covenants and agrees that at all times during his or her employment with the Company and for a period of twelve months after the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including a termination due to the Participant's Retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not, without the prior written consent of PepsiCo's chief personnel officer or chief legal officer, either directly or indirectly, for himself/herself or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, partnership, corporation or other entity, engage in any activities prohibited in the following Paragraphs C.1(a) through (c):
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
               (a) The Participant shall not, in any country in which the Company operates, accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or provide services in any capacity or acquire any ownership interest which involves the Participant's Participation in an entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company;
               (b) With respect to Covered Products, the Participant shall not directly or indirectly solicit for competitive business purposes any customer or Prospective Customer of the Company called on, serviced by, or contacted by the Participant in any capacity during his or her employment; or
               (c) The Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
          2. . In order to assist the Participant with his or her duties, the Company shall continue to provide the Participant with access to confidential and proprietary operational information and other confidential information which is either information not known by actual or potential competitors, customers and third parties of the Company or is proprietary information of the Company ("Confidential Information"). Such Confidential Information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such Confidential Information include, without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations, structure and methods of operation; its product lines, formulae and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its production techniques; its financial data; its advertising and promotional ideas and strategy; information maintained in its computer systems; devices, processes, compilations of information and records; and its plans and strategies. The Participant agrees that such Confidential Information remains confidential even if committed to the Participant's memory. The Participant agrees, during the term of his or her employment and at all
Non-Disclosure
 
times thereafter, not to use, divulge, or furnish or make accessible to any third party, company, corporation or other organization (including but not limited to, customers, competitors, or governmental agencies), without the Company's prior written consent, any Confidential Information of the Company, except as necessary in his or her position with the Company.
          3. . The Participant agrees that whenever the Participant's employment with the Company ends for any reason, (a) all documents containing or referring to the Company's Confidential Information as may be in the Participant's possession, or over which the Participant may have control, and all other property of the Company provided to the Participant by the Company during the course of the Participant's employment with the Company will be returned by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required; and (b) all Company computer and computer-related equipment and software, and all Company property, files, records, documents, drawings, specifications, lists, equipment, and similar items relating to the business of the Company, whether prepared by the Participant or otherwise, coming into the Participant's possession or control during the course of his employment shall remain the exclusive property of the Company, and shall be delivered by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required.
Return of Confidential Information and Company Property
          4. . The Participant shall not engage in any of the following acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests during the term of his or her employment with the Company: (a) violating the Company's Code of Conduct, Insider Trading Policy or any other written policies of the Company, (b) unlawfully trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or (c) engaging in any activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
          5. . The Participant agrees that: (a) the terms and provisions of this Agreement are reasonable and constitute an otherwise enforceable agreement to which the terms and provisions of this Paragraph C are ancillary or a part of; (b) the consideration provided by the Company under this Agreement is not illusory; (c) the restrictions contained in this Paragraph C are necessary and reasonable for the protection of the legitimate business interests and goodwill of the Company; and (d) the consideration given by the Company under this Agreement, including, without limitation, the provision by the Company of Confidential Information to the Participant, gives rise to the Company's interest in the covenants set forth in this Paragraph C.
Reasonableness of Provisions
          6. . The Participant specifically recognizes and affirms that each of the covenants contained in Paragraphs C.1 through C.4 of this Agreement is a material and important term of this Agreement which has induced the Company to provide for the award of the Options and/or Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder, the disclosure of Confidential Information referenced herein, and the other promises made by the Company herein. The Participant further agrees that in the event that (i) the Company determines that the Participant has breached any term of Paragraphs C.1 through C.4 or (ii) all or any part of Paragraph C is held or found invalid or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever by a court of competent jurisdiction in an action between the Participant and the Company, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
Repayment and Forfeiture
               (a) Cancel any unexercised Options or unpaid Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder;
 
               (b) Require the Participant to pay to the Company all gains realized from the exercise of any Options granted hereunder; and/or
               (c) Require the Participant to pay to the Company the value (determined as of the Payment Date) of any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder that have been paid out.
          7. . In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached or attempted or threatened to breach any term of Paragraph C, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, it is agreed that the Company shall be entitled, upon application to any court of proper jurisdiction, to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction (without the necessity of (a) proving irreparable harm, (b) establishing that monetary damages are inadequate or (c) posting any bond with respect thereto) against the Participant prohibiting such breach or attempted or threatened breach by proving only the existence of such breach or attempted or threatened breach.
Equitable Relief
          8. . The Participant agrees that the period during which the covenants contained in this Paragraph C shall be effective shall be computed by excluding from such computation any time during which the Participant is in violation of any provision of Paragraph C.
Extension of Restrictive Period
          9. . The Company and the Participant agree that it was their intent to enter into a valid and enforceable agreement. The Participant and the Company thereby acknowledge the reasonableness of the restrictions set forth in Paragraph C, including the reasonableness of the geographic area, duration as to time and scope of activity restrained. The Participant further acknowledges that his or her skills are such that he or she can be gainfully employed in noncompetitive employment and that the agreement not to compete will not prevent him or her from earning a living. The Participant agrees that if any covenant contained in Paragraph C of this Agreement is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to contain limitations as to time, geographical area, or scope of activity that are not reasonable and impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill or other business interest of the Company, then the court shall reform the covenant to the extent necessary to cause the limitations contained in the covenant as to time, geographical area, and scope of activity to be restrained to be reasonable and to impose a restraint that is not greater than necessary to protect the goodwill and other business interests of the Company and to enforce the covenants as reformed.
Acknowledgments
          10. . The covenants on the part of the Participant in this Paragraph C shall be construed as an agreement independent of any other agreement, including any employee benefit agreement, and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of any claim or cause of action of the Participant against the Company, whether predicated upon this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of such covenants.
Provisions Independent
          11. . The Participant agrees that the Company may notify any person or entity employing the Participant or evidencing an intention of employing the Participant of the existence and provisions of this Agreement.
Notification of Subsequent Employer
          12. . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, any reference to "Company" in this Paragraph C shall be deemed to refer to such Related Entity in addition to the Company.
Transfers to a Related Entity
 
     D. .
Additional Terms and Conditions
          1. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, (a) the number and type of shares which the Participant may purchase pursuant to the Options and the Option Exercise Price at which the Participant may purchase such shares shall be adjusted, and (b) the number and type of shares to which the Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant relate shall be adjusted, in the case of (a) and (b), as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
          2. . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
               (a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder or (2) replaces the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Options and Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule and performance targets, as applicable, that are the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule and performance targets applicable to such Options and Restricted Stock Units, then the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to Paragraph D.2(c) below.
               (b) If the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph D.2(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms and the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be paid, as if 100% of the performance targets have been achieved, immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A and (2), notwithstanding Paragraph D.2(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that, in the case of the Restricted Stock Units, is at least equal to the value of the consideration that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of PepsiCo's securities relating to such awards and, in the case of the outstanding Options, is at least equal to the excess, if any, of the value of such consideration over the Option Exercise Price for such Options.
               (c) If the outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph D.2(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company (or if applicable, a successor corporation) is terminated by the Company or such successor for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding until the Expiration Date and (2) the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be paid, as if 100% of the performance targets have been achieved, immediately in accordance with their
 
terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A. For purposes of this Paragraph D.2, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
          3. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Options and Restricted Stock Units are personal to the Participant and, with respect to Options, during the Participant's lifetime, such Options may be exercised only by the Participant, and (b) the Options and Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable or assignable, other than in the case of the Participant's death by will, the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
          4. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
               (a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks, and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
               (b) "Fair Market Value" of a share of PepsiCo Common Stock on any date shall mean an amount equal to the mean of the high and low sales prices for a share of PepsiCo Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. on the date in question (or if no sales of Common Stock were made on said Exchange on such date, on the next preceding day on which sales were made on such Exchange).
               (c) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
               (d) "Prospective Customer" shall mean any individual or entity of which the Participant has gained knowledge as a result of the Participant's employment with the Company and with which the Participant dealt with or had contact with during the six (6) months preceding his or her termination of employment with the Company.
               (e) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights at the relevant time.
               (f) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing
 
at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee.
               (g) "Total Disability" shall mean being considered disabled under the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (as amended and restated from time to time), with such status having resulted in benefit payments from such plan or another PepsiCo disability plan and 12 months having elapsed since the Participant was so considered to be disabled from the cause of the current disability. The effective date of a Participant's Total Disability shall be the first day that all of the foregoing requirements are met.
          5. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
          6. .
Binding Effect
               (a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
               (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Options and Restricted Stock Units may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
          7. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment. This Agreement does not impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company to terminate the Participant's employment relationship at any time. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreement's Survival
          8. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
          9. . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant without the Participant's written consent (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law,
Amendment; Waiver
 
including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any such right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement.
          10. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
          11. . The Options, Restricted Stock Units and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Committee reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Options and Restricted Stock Units outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not, without the Participant's written consent, be adversely affected thereby (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Options or Restricted Stock Units permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
          12.  By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that:
Participant Acknowledgements.
               (a) the Option and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Options and Restricted Stock Units already granted under the Plan);
               (b) the Participant has been provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan, the Options and the shares covered thereby, and the Restricted Stock Units;
               (c) stock options and restricted stock units are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and that the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Options and/or Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Agreement to require options, restricted stock units or other awards to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan;
               (d) upon exercise of the Options or vesting of Restricted Stock Units the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes
 
resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participant's wages;
               (e) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments;
               (f) in the event of termination of the Participant's employment, a severance or notice period to which the Participant may be entitled under local law and which follows the date of termination specified in a notice of termination or other document evidencing the termination of the Participant's employment will not be treated as active employment for purposes of this Agreement and, as a result, vesting of unvested Options or Restricted Stock Units will not be extended by any such period;
               (g) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock options and stock and the exercise of stock options, including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations; and, in the event that any of the Participant's Options or Restricted Stock Units, including any such awards previously granted, become subject to the Indian fringe benefit tax ("FBT"), the Participant will be responsible for the FBT imposed on such awards and consents to provide payment to the Company of the applicable FBT at the time such FBT is due in accordance with the procedures specified from time to time by the Company; and
               (h) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Options, in all cases, and Restricted Stock Units, to the extent possible, will not be subject to Code Section 409A. To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are subject to Code Section 409A because of the Participant's eligibility for Retirement, then payments limited to the earliest permissible payment date under Code Section 409A shall be made following a Change in Control only (i) upon a Change in Control if it qualifies under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) (a "409A CIC"), and (ii) upon a termination of employment if it occurs after a 409A CIC and it constitutes a Section 409A separation from service (and in this case, the six-month delay of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) shall apply to "specified employees," determined under the default rules of Section 409A or such other rules as apply generally under the Company's Section 409A plans). Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, this Agreement will be modified to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that is necessary or appropriate for such Options or Restricted Stock Units to comply with Code Section 409A.
          13. . The Participant agrees, in the event that the Company in its reasonable judgment determines that the Participant owes the Company or any Related Entity any amount due to any loan, note, obligation or indebtedness, including but not limited to amounts owed to the Company pursuant to the Company's tax equalization program or the Company's policies with respect to travel and business expenses, and if the Participant has not satisfied such obligation(s), then the Company may instruct the plan administrator to withhold and/or sell shares of PepsiCo Common Stock acquired by the Participant upon exercise of his or her Options or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units (to the extent such Options or Restricted Stock Units are not subject to Code Section 409A), or the Company may deduct funds equal to the amount of such obligation from other funds due to the Participant from the Company to the maximum extent permitted by Code Section 409A.
Right of Set-Off
 
          14. . The Participant hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any Plan documents, proxy materials, annual reports and other related documents. The Participant hereby consents to any and all procedures that the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of Plan documents (including documents relating to any programs adopted under the Plan), and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. Participant consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan, including any program adopted under the Plan.
Electronic Delivery and Acceptance
          15. . Participant hereby acknowledges and consents to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data as described in this paragraph. Participant is not obliged to consent to such collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data. However, failure to provide the consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. The Company and Participant's employer hold certain personal information about Participant, that may include his/her name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other employee identification number, salary grade, hire data, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock held in PepsiCo, or details of all options, restricted stock units or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, or unvested, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). PepsiCo and/or its subsidiaries will transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of Participant's participation in the Plan, and PepsiCo and/or any of its subsidiaries may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting PepsiCo in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. These recipients may be located throughout the world, including the United States. Participant's authorizes them to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Participant's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of shares of stock on Participant's behalf to a broker or other third party with whom Participant may elect to deposit any shares of stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. Participant may, at any time, review Data, require any necessary amendments to it or withdraw the consents herein in writing by contacting the Company; however, withdrawing consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan.
Data Privacy
          16. . The Participant agrees as a condition of this grant that, in the event that the Participant is subject to the Company's Stock Ownership or Exercise & Hold Guidelines, the Participant shall not sell any shares obtained upon exercise of the Options or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units unless such sale complies with the Stock Ownership and Exercise & Hold Guidelines as in effect from time to time.
Stock Ownership / Exercise & Hold Guidelines
          17. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs D.11 and D.12, this Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to conflict of law rules or principles.
Governing Law
          18. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs D.11 and D.12, any action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of or based on any right arising out of this Agreement may be brought against the Participant or the Company only in the courts of the State of New York or, if it has or can acquire jurisdiction, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and the Participant and the Company consents to the jurisdiction
Choice of Venue
 
of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts) in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection to venue laid therein.
          19. . This Agreement contains all the understanding and agreements between the Participant and the Company regarding the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
Executive Name:
$
Grant Date: Grant Price:
CORE ANNUAL AWARD
Restricted Stock Units: Stock Options:
CORE ANNUAL AWARD DETAILS
$
US Dollar Value Core Annual Award: Percentage RSU: Restricted Stock Unit Award Value: Grant Price:
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD
Number of Restricted Stock Units Granted: Vesting Date*:
4x $
US Dollar Value Core Annual Award: Percentage Stock Options: Stock Option Award Value: Conversion Factor:
STOCK OPTIONS AWARD
Stock Option Award Face Value: Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
Number of Options Granted: Vesting Date*: Expiration Date:
 
AWARD ACCEPTANCE
This PepsiCo Performance-Based Long-Term Incentive Award ("Award") is not considered valid unless you accept it on or before [insert date 180 days after notification]. At the bottom of this Award Summary, you can indicate that you either "Accept" or "Reject" the Award. By pressing the "Accept" button below and accepting your Award, you acknowledge having received and read this Award Summary, the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan under which this Award was granted and you agree to comply with, and be bound by, the terms and conditions of the Plan, this Award Summary and the Terms and Conditions document. If you "Reject" this Award, the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours. Likewise, if you do not either "Accept" or "Reject" this Award on or before [insert date 180 days after notification], the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours.

Exhibit 10.3
     These Terms and Conditions, along with the PepsiCo Pro Rata Long-Term Incentive Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary), by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted to it in the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on or prior to the Grant Date, authorized the granting of stock options to newly hired or promoted executives; and
     WHEREAS, the Committee now desires to grant to the Participant the stock options set forth on the Award Summary; and
     WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine;
     NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
     A. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the stock options granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Stock Options
          1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company and agreeing to be bound by the covenants of Paragraph B, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the right and option to purchase the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, par value $.0167 per share, indicated on the Award Summary, at the Grant/Exercise Price per share indicated on the Award Summary (the "Option Exercise Price"), which was the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of PepsiCo Common Stock on the Grant Date, rounded up to the nearest one-fourth. The right to purchase each such share is referred to herein as an "Option." All Options granted hereunder shall be "Non-Qualified Stock Options" as defined in the Plan.
Grant
          2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Options shall become fully vested on the vesting date set forth on the Award Summary (the "Vesting Date") and shall be exercisable from the Vesting Date through the expiration date set forth on the Award Summary (the "Expiration Date"). Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Once vested and exercisable, and until terminated, all or any portion of the Options may be exercised from time to time and at any time under procedures that the Committee or its delegate shall establish from time to time, including,
Vesting and Exercisability
 
without limitation, procedures regarding the frequency of exercise and the minimum number of Options which may be exercised at any time.
          3. . Subject to terms and conditions set forth herein, Options may be exercised by giving written notice of exercise to PepsiCo in the manner specified from time to time by PepsiCo. The aggregate Option Exercise Price for the shares being purchased, together with any amount which the Company may be required to withhold upon such exercise in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of issuance of such shares.
Exercise Procedure
          4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
               (a) . Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, no vesting shall occur following the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company, and all unvested Options shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. Only vested Options may be exercised. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), vested Options shall be exercisable until, and shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon, the earlier of the Expiration Date and the date that is the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange during the 90-calendar day period after the date the Participant's employment with the Company terminates. It is intended that an authorized severance leave of absence may extend employment for purposes of determining the period when vested Options may be exercised. However, an authorized severance leave of absence will not be treated as active employment, and, as a result, vesting of unvested Options will not be extended by any such period.
Termination of Employment
               (b) . If the Participant's employment terminates prior to the Vesting Date, by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below) prior to attaining at least age 62, then: (i) a portion of the Options shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company, with such portion determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date; (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(b); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Retirement Prior to Age 62
               (c) . If the Participant's employment terminates by reason of the Participant's death, Total Disability (as defined below), or Retirement after attaining at least age 62, then: (i) the Options shall become fully vested on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability); (ii) the Options shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(c); and (iii) the Options may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative (or any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution), in the event of death, or the Participant, in the event of Retirement or Total Disability, prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement.
Death, Total Disability, or Retirement on or After Age 62
               (d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Options shall continue to vest and to
Transfers to a Related Entity
 
become exercisable after such transfer and shall remain outstanding and be exercisable in accordance with this Agreement by treating the Participant's employment with the Related Entity as employment with the Company for purposes of this Agreement.
          5. . Except as provided in Paragraph C.2, at any time after any Option becomes exercisable, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, to cancel such Option and to cause PepsiCo to pay to the Participant the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by such Option over the Option Exercise Price of such Option as of the date the Committee provides written notice (the "Buy Out Notice") of its intention to exercise such right. Payments of such buy out amounts pursuant to this provision shall be effected by PepsiCo as promptly as possible after the date of the Buy Out Notice and shall be made in shares of Common Stock. The number of shares shall be the greatest number of whole shares determined by dividing the amount of the payment to be made by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of the Buy Out Notice. Payments of any such buy out amounts shall be made net of the minimum applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local withholding taxes, if any.
Buy-Out of Option Gains
          6. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Options granted hereunder unless and until such Options are exercised and the shares have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
     B. .
Prohibited Conduct
          In consideration of the Company disclosing and providing access to Confidential Information, as more fully described in Paragraph B.2 below, after the date hereof, the grant by the Company of the Options, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Participant and the Company, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows.
          1. . The Participant hereby covenants and agrees that at all times during his or her employment with the Company and for a period of twelve months after the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including a termination due to the Participant's Retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not, without the prior written consent of PepsiCo's chief personnel officer or chief legal officer, either directly or indirectly, for himself/herself or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, partnership, corporation or other entity, engage in any activities prohibited in the following Paragraphs B.1(a) through (c):
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
               (a) The Participant shall not, in any country in which the Company operates, accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or provide services in any capacity or acquire any ownership interest which involves the Participant's Participation in an entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company;
               (b) With respect to Covered Products, the Participant shall not directly or indirectly solicit for competitive business purposes any customer or Prospective Customer of the Company called on, serviced by, or contacted by the Participant in any capacity during his or her employment; or
 
               (c) The Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
          2. . In order to assist the Participant with his or her duties, the Company shall continue to provide the Participant with access to confidential and proprietary operational information and other confidential information which is either information not known by actual or potential competitors, customers and third parties of the Company or is proprietary information of the Company ("Confidential Information"). Such Confidential Information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such Confidential Information include, without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations, structure and methods of operation; its product lines, formulae and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its production techniques; its financial data; its advertising and promotional ideas and strategy; information maintained in its computer systems; devices, processes, compilations of information and records; and its plans and strategies. The Participant agrees that such Confidential Information remains confidential even if committed to the Participant's memory. The Participant agrees, during the term of his or her employment and at all times thereafter, not to use, divulge, or furnish or make accessible to any third party, company, corporation or other organization (including but not limited to, customers, competitors, or governmental agencies), without the Company's prior written consent, any Confidential Information of the Company, except as necessary in his or her position with the Company.
Non-Disclosure
          3. . The Participant agrees that whenever the Participant's employment with the Company ends for any reason, (a) all documents containing or referring to the Company's Confidential Information as may be in the Participant's possession, or over which the Participant may have control, and all other property of the Company provided to the Participant by the Company during the course of the Participant's employment with the Company will be returned by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required; and (b) all Company computer and computer-related equipment and software, and all Company property, files, records, documents, drawings, specifications, lists, equipment, and similar items relating to the business of the Company, whether prepared by the Participant or otherwise, coming into the Participant's possession or control during the course of his employment shall remain the exclusive property of the Company, and shall be delivered by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required.
Return of Confidential Information and Company Property
          4. . The Participant shall not engage in any of the following acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests during the term of his or her employment with the Company: (a) violating the Company's Code of Conduct, Insider Trading Policy or any other written policies of the Company, (b) unlawfully trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or (c) engaging in any activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
          5. . The Participant agrees that: (a) the terms and provisions of this Agreement are reasonable and constitute an otherwise enforceable agreement to which
Reasonableness of Provisions
 
the terms and provisions of this Paragraph B are ancillary or a part of; (b) the consideration provided by the Company under this Agreement is not illusory; (c) the restrictions contained in this Paragraph B are necessary and reasonable for the protection of the legitimate business interests and goodwill of the Company; and (d) the consideration given by the Company under this Agreement, including, without limitation, the provision by the Company of Confidential Information to the Participant, gives rise to the Company's interest in the covenants set forth in this Paragraph B.
          6. . The Participant specifically recognizes and affirms that each of the covenants contained in Paragraphs B.1 through B.4 of this Agreement is a material and important term of this Agreement which has induced the Company to provide for the award of the Options granted hereunder, the disclosure of Confidential Information referenced herein, and the other promises made by the Company herein. The Participant further agrees that in the event that (i) the Company determines that the Participant has breached any term of Paragraphs B.1 through B.4 or (ii) all or any part of Paragraph B is held or found invalid or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever by a court of competent jurisdiction in an action between the Participant and the Company, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
Repayment and Forfeiture
               (a) Cancel any unexercised Options granted hereunder; and
               (b) Require the Participant to pay to the Company all gains realized from the exercise of any Options granted hereunder.
          7. . In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached or attempted or threatened to breach any term of Paragraph B, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, it is agreed that the Company shall be entitled, upon application to any court of proper jurisdiction, to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction (without the necessity of (a) proving irreparable harm, (b) establishing that monetary damages are inadequate or (c) posting any bond with respect thereto) against the Participant prohibiting such breach or attempted or threatened breach by proving only the existence of such breach or attempted or threatened breach.
Equitable Relief
          8. . The Participant agrees that the period during which the covenants contained in this Paragraph B shall be effective shall be computed by excluding from such computation any time during which the Participant is in violation of any provision of Paragraph B.
Extension of Restrictive Period
          9. . The Company and the Participant agree that it was their intent to enter into a valid and enforceable agreement. The Participant and the Company thereby acknowledge the reasonableness of the restrictions set forth in Paragraph B, including the reasonableness of the geographic area, duration as to time and scope of activity restrained. The Participant further acknowledges that his or her skills are such that he or she can be gainfully employed in noncompetitive employment and that the agreement not to compete will not prevent him or her from earning a living. The Participant agrees that if any covenant contained in Paragraph B of this Agreement is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to contain limitations as to time, geographical area, or scope of activity that are not reasonable and impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill or other business interest of the Company, then the court shall reform the covenant to the extent necessary to cause the limitations contained in the covenant as to time, geographical area, and scope of activity to be restrained to be reasonable
Acknowledgments
 
and to impose a restraint that is not greater than necessary to protect the goodwill and other business interests of the Company and to enforce the covenants as reformed.
          10. . The covenants on the part of the Participant in this Paragraph B shall be construed as an agreement independent of any other agreement, including any employee benefit agreement, and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of any claim or cause of action of the Participant against the Company, whether predicated upon this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of such covenants.
Provisions Independent
          11. . The Participant agrees that the Company may notify any person or entity employing the Participant or evidencing an intention of employing the Participant of the existence and provisions of this Agreement.
Notification of Subsequent Employer
          12. . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, any reference to "Company" in this Paragraph B shall be deemed to refer to such Related Entity in addition to the Company.
Transfers to a Related Entity
     C. .
Additional Terms and Conditions
          1. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, the number and type of shares which the Participant may purchase pursuant to the Options and the Option Exercise Price at which the Participant may purchase such shares shall be adjusted as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
          2. . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
               (a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Options or (2) replaces the outstanding Options with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Options at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule that is the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule applicable to such Options, then the outstanding Options or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to Paragraph C.2(c) below.
               (b) If the outstanding Options granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.2(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms and (2) notwithstanding Paragraph C.2(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Options at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that is at least equal to the excess, if any, of the value of such consideration over the Option Exercise Price for such Options.
 
               (c) If the outstanding Options granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.2(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company (or, if applicable, a successor corporation) is terminated by the Company or such successor for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding until the Expiration Date. For purposes of this Paragraph C.2, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
          3. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Options are personal to the Participant and, during the Participant's lifetime, such Options may be exercised only by the Participant, and (b) the Options shall not be transferable or assignable, other than in the case of the Participant's death by will, the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported transfer or assignment shall be null and void.
Nontransferability
          4. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
               (a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
               (b) "Fair Market Value" of a share of PepsiCo Common Stock on any date shall mean an amount equal to the mean of the high and low sales prices for a share of PepsiCo Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. on the date in question (or if no sales of Common Stock were made on said Exchange on such date, on the next preceding day on which sales were made on such Exchange).
               (c) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
               (d) "Prospective Customer" shall mean any individual or entity of which the Participant has gained knowledge as a result of the Participant's employment with the Company and with which the Participant dealt with or had contact with during the six (6) months preceding his or her termination of employment with the Company.
               (e) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights at the relevant time.
 
               (f) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee.
               (g) "Total Disability" shall mean becoming totally and permanently disabled, as determined for purposes of the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (or in the absence of such Disability Plan being applicable to the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
          5. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
          6. .
Binding Effect
               (a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
               (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
          7. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment. This Agreement does not impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company to terminate the Participant's employment relationship at any time. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreement's Survival
          8. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
          9. . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their
Amendment; Waiver
 
delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant without the Participant's written consent (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any such right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement.
          10. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
          11. . The Options and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Committee reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Options outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not, without the Participant's written consent, be adversely affected thereby (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment or termination is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Options permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
          12. . By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that:
Participant Acknowledgements
               (a) the Option grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Options already granted under the Plan);
               (b) the Participant has been provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan, the Options and the shares covered thereby;
               (c) stock options are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and that the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Options pursuant to this Agreement to require options or other awards to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan;
 
               (d) upon exercise of the Options the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participant's wages;
               (e) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments;
               (f) in the event of termination of the Participant's employment, a severance or notice period to which the Participant may be entitled under local law and which follows the date of termination specified in a notice of termination or other document evidencing the termination of the Participant's employment will not be treated as active employment for purposes of this Agreement and, as a result, vesting of unvested Options will not be extended by any such period;
               (g) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock options and stock and the exercise of stock options, including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations; and, in the event that any of the Participant's Options, including any such awards previously granted, become subject to the Indian fringe benefit tax ("FBT"), the Participant will be responsible for the FBT imposed on such awards and consents to provide payment to the Company of the applicable FBT at the time such FBT is due in accordance with the procedures specified from time to time by the Company; and
               (h) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Options will not be subject to Code Section 409A. If, notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Options become subject to Code Section 409A, this Agreement will be modified to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that is necessary or appropriate for such Options to comply with Code Section 409A.
          13. . The Participant agrees, in the event that the Company in its reasonable judgment determines that the Participant owes the Company or any Related Entity any amount due to any loan, note, obligation or indebtedness, including but not limited to amounts owed to the Company pursuant to the Company's tax equalization program or the Company's policies with respect to travel and business expenses, and if the Participant has not satisfied such obligation(s), then the Company may instruct the plan administrator to withhold and/or sell shares of PepsiCo Common Stock acquired by the Participant upon exercise of his or her Options, or the Company may deduct funds equal to the amount of such obligation from other funds due to the Participant from the Company.
Right of Set-Off
          14. . The Participant hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any Plan documents, proxy materials, annual reports and other related documents. The Participant hereby consents to any and all procedures that the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of Plan documents (including documents relating to any programs adopted under the Plan), and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. Participant consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan, including any program adopted under the Plan.
Electronic Delivery and Acceptance
          15. . Participant hereby acknowledges and consents to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data as described in this Paragraph C.15. Participant is not obliged to consent to such collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data. However,
Data Privacy
 
failure to provide the consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. The Company and Participant's employer hold certain personal information about Participant, that may include his/her name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other employee identification number, salary grade, hire data, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, or details of all options, restricted stock units or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, or unvested, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). PepsiCo and/or its subsidiaries will transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of Participant's participation in the Plan, and PepsiCo and/or any of its subsidiaries may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting PepsiCo in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. These recipients may be located throughout the world, including the United States. Participant's authorizes them to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Participant's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of shares of stock on Participant's behalf to a broker or other third party with whom Participant may elect to deposit any shares of stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. Participant may, at any time, review Data, require any necessary amendments to it or withdraw the consents herein in writing by contacting the Company; however, withdrawing consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan.
          16. . The Participant agrees as a condition of this grant that, in the event that the Participant is subject to the Company's Stock Ownership or Exercise & Hold Guidelines, the Participant shall not sell any shares obtained upon exercise of the Options unless such sale complies with the Stock Ownership and Exercise & Hold Guidelines as in effect from time to time.
Stock Ownership / Exercise & Hold Guidelines
          17. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs C.11 and C.12, this Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to conflict of law rules or principles.
Governing Law
          18. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs C.11 and C.12, any action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of or based on any right arising out of this Agreement may be brought against the Participant or the Company only in the courts of the State of New York or, if it has or can acquire jurisdiction, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and the Participant and the Company consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts) in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection to venue laid therein.
Choice of Venue
          19. . This Agreement contains all the understanding and agreements between the Participant and the Company regarding the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
Executive Name:
Hire/Promotion Effective Date:
Grant Date:
Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
STOCK OPTION GRANT DETAILS
Award Face Value:
Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
Number of Options Granted: Vesting Date*: Expiration Date:
 
AWARD ACCEPTANCE
This PepsiCo Pro Rata Long-Term Incentive Award ("Award") is not considered valid unless you accept it on or before [insert date 180 days after notification]. At the bottom of this Award Summary, you can indicate that you either "Accept" or "Reject" the Award. By pressing the "Accept" button below and accepting your Award, you acknowledge having received and read this Award Summary, the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan under which this Award was granted and you agree to comply with, and be bound by, the terms and conditions of the Plan, this Award Summary and the Terms and Conditions document. If you "Reject" this Award, the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours. Likewise, if you do not either "Accept" or "Reject" this Award on or before [insert date 180 days after notification], the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours.

Exhibit 10.4
     These Terms and Conditions along with the PepsiCo Stock Option Retention Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary) by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted to it in the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on or prior to the Grant Date, authorized the grant to the Participant of the stock options set forth on the Award Summary; and
     WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
     NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
     A. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the stock options granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Stock Options
          1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company and agreeing to be bound by the covenants of Paragraph B, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the right and option to purchase the number of shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, par value $.0167 per share, indicated on the Award Summary at the Grant/Exercise Price per share indicated on the Award Summary (the "Option Exercise Price"), which was the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of PepsiCo Common Stock on the Grant Date, rounded up to the nearest one-fourth. The right to purchase each such share is referred to herein as an "Option." All Options granted hereunder shall be "Non-Qualified Stock Options" as defined in the Plan.
Grant
          2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the number of Options specified in the Award Summary shall become vested on each vesting date set forth in the Award Summary ("Vesting Date"). The specified number of Options shall be exercisable from the applicable Vesting Date through the expiration date set forth in the Award Summary (the "Expiration Date"). Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Once vested and exercisable, and until terminated, all or any portion of the Options may be exercised from time to time and at any time under procedures that the Committee or its delegate shall establish from time to time, including, without limitation, procedures regarding the frequency of exercise and the minimum number of Options which may be exercised at any time.
Vesting and Exercisability
 
          3. . Subject to terms and conditions set forth herein, Options may be exercised by giving written notice of exercise to PepsiCo in the manner specified from time to time by PepsiCo. The aggregate Option Exercise Price for the shares being purchased, together with any amount which the Company may be required to withhold upon such exercise in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of issuance of such shares.
Exercise Procedure
          4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Death, Retirement and Total Disability
               (a) . Options may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, no vesting shall occur following the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company, and all unvested Options shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. Only vested Options may be exercised. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d), vested Options shall be exercisable until, and shall automatically be forfeited and cancelled upon, the earlier of the Expiration Date and the date that is the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange during the 90-calendar day period after the date the Participant's employment with the Company terminates. It is intended that an authorized severance leave of absence may extend employment for purposes of determining the period when vested Options may be exercised. However, an authorized severance leave of absence will not be treated as active employment and, as a result, vesting of unvested Options will not be extended by any such period.
Termination of Employment
               (b) . If the Participant's employment terminates, by reason of the Participant's death or Total Disability (as defined below), then: (i) a portion of the Options shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability), with such portion determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date for the Options (determined separately for the specified number of Options related to each Vesting Date); (ii) the Options (that are vested as provided above) shall continue to become exercisable on the applicable Vesting Date in accordance with this Agreement, with no change in the earliest date of exercise as a result of the vesting provided by this subparagraph 4(b); and (iii) the Options (that are vested as provided above) may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative (or any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution), in the event of death, or the Participant, in the event of Total Disability, in accordance with this Agreement.
Death or Total Disability
               (c) . In the event that, prior to the expiration of the Options, the Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below), then the Participant shall continue to be vested with and have the right to exercise those Options which are vested and exercisable as of the Participant's Retirement Date until the Expiration Date in accordance with this Agreement. Any Options which are not vested as of the Participant's Retirement Date shall automatically expire and terminate on the Retirement Date.
Retirement
               (d) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Options shall continue to vest and to become exercisable after such transfer and shall remain outstanding and be exercisable in accordance with this Agreement by treating the Participant's employment with the Related Entity as employment with the Company for purposes of this Agreement.
Transfers to a Related Entity
 
     B. .
Prohibited Conduct
          In consideration of the Company disclosing and providing access to Confidential Information, as more fully described in Paragraph B.2 below, after the date hereof, the grant by the Company of the Options, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Participant and the Company, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows.
          1. . The Participant hereby covenants and agrees that at all times during his or her employment with the Company and for a period of twelve months after the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including a termination due to the Participant's Retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not, without the prior written consent of PepsiCo's chief personnel officer or chief legal officer, either directly or indirectly, for himself/herself or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, partnership, corporation or other entity, engage in any activities prohibited in the following Paragraphs B.1(a) through (c):
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
               (a) The Participant shall not, in any country in which the Company operates, accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or provide services in any capacity or acquire any ownership interest which involves the Participant's Participation in an entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company;
               (b) With respect to Covered Products, the Participant shall not directly or indirectly solicit for competitive business purposes any customer or Prospective Customer of the Company called on, serviced by, or contacted by the Participant in any capacity during his or her employment; or
               (c) The Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
          2. . In order to assist the Participant with his or her duties, the Company shall continue to provide the Participant with access to confidential and proprietary operational information and other confidential information which is either information not known by actual or potential competitors, customers and third parties of the Company or is proprietary information of the Company ("Confidential Information"). Such Confidential Information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such Confidential Information include, without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations, structure and methods of operation; its product lines, formulae and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its production techniques; its financial data; its advertising and promotional ideas and strategy; information maintained in its computer systems; devices, processes, compilations of information and records; and its plans and strategies. The Participant agrees that such Confidential Information remains confidential even if committed to the Participant's memory. The Participant agrees, during the term of his or her employment and at all
Non-Disclosure
 
times thereafter, not to use, divulge, or furnish or make accessible to any third party, company, corporation or other organization (including but not limited to, customers, competitors, or governmental agencies), without the Company's prior written consent, any Confidential Information of the Company, except as necessary in his or her position with the Company.
          3. . The Participant agrees that whenever the Participant's employment with the Company ends for any reason, (a) all documents containing or referring to the Company's Confidential Information as may be in the Participant's possession, or over which the Participant may have control, and all other property of the Company provided to the Participant by the Company during the course of the Participant's employment with the Company will be returned by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required; and (b) all Company computer and computer-related equipment and software, and all Company property, files, records, documents, drawings, specifications, lists, equipment, and similar items relating to the business of the Company, whether prepared by the Participant or otherwise, coming into the Participant's possession or control during the course of his employment shall remain the exclusive property of the Company, and shall be delivered by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required.
Return of Confidential Information and Company Property
          4. . The Participant shall not engage in any of the following acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests during the term of his or her employment with the Company: (a) violating the Company's Code of Conduct, Insider Trading Policy or any other written policies of the Company, (b) unlawfully trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or (c) engaging in any activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
          5. . The Participant agrees that: (a) the terms and provisions of this Agreement are reasonable and constitute an otherwise enforceable agreement to which the terms and provisions of this Paragraph B are ancillary or a part of; (b) the consideration provided by the Company under this Agreement is not illusory; (c) the restrictions contained in this Paragraph B are necessary and reasonable for the protection of the legitimate business interests and goodwill of the Company; and (d) the consideration given by the Company under this Agreement, including, without limitation, the provision by the Company of Confidential Information to the Participant, gives rise to the Company's interest in the covenants set forth in this Paragraph B.
Reasonableness of Provisions
          6. . The Participant specifically recognizes and affirms that each of the covenants contained in Paragraphs B.1 through B.4 of this Agreement is a material and important term of this Agreement which has induced the Company to provide for the award of the Options granted hereunder, the disclosure of Confidential Information referenced herein, and the other promises made by the Company herein. The Participant further agrees that in the event that (i) the Company determines that the Participant has breached any term of Paragraphs B.1 through B.4 or (ii) all or any part of Paragraph B is held or found invalid or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever by a court of competent jurisdiction in an action between the Participant and the Company, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
Repayment and Forfeiture
               (a) Cancel any unexercised Options granted hereunder; and
 
               (b) Require the Participant to pay to the Company all gains realized from the exercise of any Options granted hereunder.
          7. . In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached or attempted or threatened to breach any term of Paragraph B, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, it is agreed that the Company shall be entitled, upon application to any court of proper jurisdiction, to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction (without the necessity of (a) proving irreparable harm, (b) establishing that monetary damages are inadequate or (c) posting any bond with respect thereto) against the Participant prohibiting such breach or attempted or threatened breach by proving only the existence of such breach or attempted or threatened breach.
Equitable Relief
          8. . The Participant agrees that the period during which the covenants contained in this Paragraph B shall be effective shall be computed by excluding from such computation any time during which the Participant is in violation of any provision of Paragraph B.
Extension of Restrictive Period
          9. . The Company and the Participant agree that it was their intent to enter into a valid and enforceable agreement. The Participant and the Company thereby acknowledge the reasonableness of the restrictions set forth in Paragraph B, including the reasonableness of the geographic area, duration as to time and scope of activity restrained. The Participant further acknowledges that his or her skills are such that he or she can be gainfully employed in noncompetitive employment and that the agreement not to compete will not prevent him or her from earning a living. The Participant agrees that if any covenant contained in Paragraph B of this Agreement is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to contain limitations as to time, geographical area, or scope of activity that are not reasonable and impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill or other business interest of the Company, then the court shall reform the covenant to the extent necessary to cause the limitations contained in the covenant as to time, geographical area, and scope of activity to be restrained to be reasonable and to impose a restraint that is not greater than necessary to protect the goodwill and other business interests of the Company and to enforce the covenants as reformed.
Acknowledgments
          10. . The covenants on the part of the Participant in this Paragraph B shall be construed as an agreement independent of any other agreement, including any employee benefit agreement, and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of any claim or cause of action of the Participant against the Company, whether predicated upon this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of such covenants.
Provisions Independent
          11. . The Participant agrees that the Company may notify any person or entity employing the Participant or evidencing an intention of employing the Participant of the existence and provisions of this Agreement.
Notification of Subsequent Employer
          12. . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, any reference to "Company" in this Paragraph B shall be deemed to refer to such Related Entity in addition to the Company.
Transfers to a Related Entity
 
     C. .
Additional Terms and Conditions
          1. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, the number and type of shares which the Participant may purchase pursuant to the Options and the Option Exercise Price at which the Participant may purchase such shares shall be adjusted as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
          2. . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
               (a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Options or (2) replaces the outstanding Options with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Options at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule that is the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule applicable to such Options, then the outstanding Options or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to Paragraph C.2(c) below.
               (b) If the outstanding Options granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.2(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding in accordance with their terms and (2) notwithstanding Paragraph C.2(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Options at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that is at least equal to the excess, if any, of the value of such consideration over the Option Exercise Price for such Options.
               (c) If the outstanding Options granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.2(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company (of, if applicable, a successor corporation) is terminated by the Company or such successor for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, the outstanding Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and become exercisable and shall remain outstanding until the Expiration Date. For purposes of this Paragraph C.2, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
          3. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Options are personal to the Participant and, during his or her lifetime, may be exercised only by the Participant, and (b) the Options shall not be transferable or assignable, other than, in the case of the Participant's death, by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and any such purported transfer or assignment shall be null and void.
Nontransferability
          4. . Except as provided in Paragraph C.2, at any time after any Option becomes exercisable, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, to cancel such Option and to cause PepsiCo to pay to the
Buy-Out of Option Gains
 
Participant the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by such Option over the Option Exercise Price of such Option as of the date the Committee provides written notice (the "Buy Out Notice") of its intention to exercise such right. Payments of such buy out amounts pursuant to this provision shall be effected by PepsiCo as promptly as possible after the date of the Buy Out Notice and shall be made in shares of Common Stock. The number of shares shall be the greatest number of whole shares determined by dividing the amount of the payment to be made by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of the Buy Out Notice. Payments of any such buy out amounts shall be made net of the minimum applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local withholding taxes, if any.
          5. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
               (a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks, and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
               (b) "Fair Market Value" of a share of PepsiCo Common Stock on any date shall mean an amount equal to the mean of the high and low sales prices for a share of PepsiCo Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. on the date in question (or if no sales of Common Stock were made on said Exchange on such date, on the next preceding day on which sales were made on such Exchange).
               (c) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
               (d) "Prospective Customer" shall mean any individual or entity of which the Participant has gained knowledge as a result of the Participant's employment with the Company and with which the Participant dealt with or had contact with during the six (6) months preceding his or her termination of employment with the Company.
               (e) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights at the relevant time.
               (f) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing
 
at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee.
               (g) "Retirement Date" shall mean the effective date of Retirement.
               (h) "Total Disability" shall mean becoming totally and permanently disabled, as determined for purposes of the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (or in the absence of such Disability Plan being applicable to the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
          6. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
          7. .
Binding Effect
               (a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
               (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Options may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
          8. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment. This Agreement does not impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company to terminate the Participant's employment relationship at any time. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreement's Survival
          9. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
          10. . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant without the Participant's written consent (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law
Amendment; Waiver
 
including the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any such right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement.
          11. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
          12. . The Options and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Committee reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Options outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not, without the Participant's written consent, be adversely affected thereby (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment or termination is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Options permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
          13. . By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that:
Participant Acknowledgements
               (a) the Option grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Options already granted under the Plan);
               (b) the Participant has been provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan, the Options and the shares covered thereby;
               (c) stock options are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and that the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Options pursuant to this Agreement to require options or other awards to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan;
               (d) upon exercise of the Options the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participant's wages;
 
               (e) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments;
               (f) in the event of termination of the Participant's employment, a severance or notice period to which the Participant may be entitled under local law and which follows the date of termination specified in a notice of termination or other document evidencing the termination of the Participant's employment will not be treated as active employment for purposes of this Agreement and, as a result, vesting of unvested Options will not be extended by any such period;
               (g) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock options and stock and the exercise of stock options, including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations; and, in the event that any of the Participant's Options, including any such awards previously granted, become subject to the Indian fringe benefit tax ("FBT"), the Participant will be responsible for the FBT imposed on such awards and consents to provide payment to the Company of the applicable FBT at the time such FBT is due in accordance with the procedures specified from time to time by the Company; and
               (h) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Options will not be subject to Code Section 409A. If, notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Options become subject to Code Section 409A, this Agreement will be modified to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that is necessary or appropriate for such Options to comply with Code Section 409A.
          14. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Options granted hereunder unless and until such Options are exercised and the shares have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
          15. . The Participant agrees, in the event that the Company in its reasonable judgment determines that the Participant owes the Company or any Related Entity any amount due to any loan, note, obligation or indebtedness, including but not limited to amounts owed to the Company pursuant to the Company's tax equalization program or the Company's policies with respect to travel and business expenses, and if the Participant has not satisfied such obligation(s), then the Company may instruct the plan administrator to withhold and/or sell shares of PepsiCo Common Stock acquired by the Participant upon exercise of his or her Options, or the Company may deduct funds equal to the amount of such obligation from other funds due to the Participant from the Company.
Right of Set-Off
          16. . The Participant hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any Plan documents, proxy materials, annual reports and other related documents. The Participant hereby consents to any and all procedures that the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of Plan documents (including documents relating to any programs adopted under the Plan), and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. Participant consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan, including any program adopted under the Plan.
Electronic Delivery and Acceptance
          17. . Participant hereby acknowledges and consents to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data as described in this Paragraph C.17. Participant is not obliged to consent to such collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data. However,
Data Privacy
 
failure to provide the consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. The Company and Participant's employer hold certain personal information about Participant, that may include his/her name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other employee identification number, salary grade, hire data, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, or details of all options, restricted stock units or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, or unvested, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). PepsiCo and/or its subsidiaries will transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of Participant's participation in the Plan, and PepsiCo and/or any of its subsidiaries may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting PepsiCo in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. These recipients may be located throughout the world, including the United States. Participant's authorizes them to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Participant's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of shares of stock on Participant's behalf to a broker or other third party with whom Participant may elect to deposit any shares of stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. Participant may, at any time, review Data, require any necessary amendments to it or withdraw the consents herein in writing by contacting the Company; however, withdrawing consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan.
          18. . The Participant agrees as a condition of this grant that, in the event that the Participant is subject to the Company's Stock Ownership or Exercise & Hold Guidelines, the Participant shall not sell any shares obtained upon exercise of the Options unless such sale complies with the Stock Ownership and Exercise & Hold Guidelines as in effect from time to time.
Stock Ownership / Exercise & Hold Guidelines
          19. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs C.12 and C.13, this Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to conflict of law rules or principles.
Governing Law
          20. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs C.12 and C.13, any action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of or based on any right arising out of this Agreement may be brought against the Participant or the Company only in the courts of the State of New York or, if it has or can acquire jurisdiction, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and the Participant and the Company consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts) in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection to venue laid therein.
Choice of Venue
          21. . This Agreement contains all the understanding and agreements between the Participant and the Company regarding the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
Executive Name:
Grant Date:
AWARD DETAILS
STOCK OPTIONS AWARD
$ $
Stock Options Award Face Value:
Option Exercise (Grant) Price:
Number of Options Granted:
Vesting Dates*:
     Options shall vest on
     
     
     Options shall vest on
     
     
Expiration Date:
 
AWARD ACCEPTANCE
This PepsiCo Stock Option Retention Award ("Award") is not considered valid unless you accept it on or before [insert date 180 days after notification]. At the bottom of this Award Summary, you can indicate that you either "Accept" or "Reject" the Award. By pressing the "Accept" button below and accepting your Award, you acknowledge having received and read this Award Summary, the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan under which this Award was granted and you agree to comply with, and be bound by, the terms and conditions of the Plan, this Award Summary and the Terms and Conditions document. If you "Reject" this Award, the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours. Likewise, if you do not either "Accept" or "Reject" this Award on or before [insert date 180 days after notification], the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours.

Exhibit 10.5
     These Terms and Conditions, along with the PepsiCo Restricted Stock Unit Retention Award Summary (the "Award Summary") delivered herewith and signed by the individual named on the Award Summary (the "Participant") shall constitute an Agreement made as of the Grant Date (as indicated on the Award Summary), by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation having its principal office at 700 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577 ("PepsiCo," and with its divisions and direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company"), and the Participant.
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and shareholders of PepsiCo have approved the PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject to the provisions set forth in the Plan; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted to it in the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo (the "Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on or prior to the Grant Date, authorized the grant to the Participant of the restricted stock units set forth on the Award Summary; and
     WHEREAS, awards granted under the Plan are to be evidenced by an Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine;
     NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
     A. . These terms and conditions shall apply with respect to the restricted stock units granted to the Participant as indicated on the Award Summary.
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Restricted Stock Units
          1. . In consideration of the Participant remaining in the employ of the Company and agreeing to be bound by the covenants of Paragraph B, PepsiCo hereby grants to the Participant, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the number of restricted stock units indicated on the Award Summary (the "Restricted Stock Units").
Grant
          2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the number of Restricted Stock Units specified on the Award Summary shall become vested on each vesting date as indicated on the Award Summary ( "Vesting Date") and shall be paid as soon as practicable after that date. Restricted Stock Units may vest only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company.
Vesting
          3. . Restricted Stock Units that vest and become payable shall be settled in shares of PepsiCo Common Stock with the Participant receiving one share of PepsiCo Common Stock for each vested Restricted Stock Unit. Any amount that the Company may be required to withhold upon the settlement of Restricted Stock Units and/or the payment of dividend equivalents (see Paragraph A.5 below) in respect of applicable foreign, federal (including FICA), state and local taxes, must be paid in full at the time of the issuance of shares or payment of cash. Unless the Participant makes other arrangements to satisfy this withholding obligation in accordance with procedures approved by the Company in its discretion, the Company shall
Payment
 
withhold shares to satisfy the required withholding obligation related to the settlement of Restricted Stock Units.
          4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment, Retirement, Death, and Total Disability
               (a) . Restricted Stock Units may vest and become payable only while the Participant is actively employed by the Company. Thus, vesting ceases upon the termination of the Participant's active employment with the Company. Subject to subparagraphs 4(b) and 4(c), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall automatically be forfeited and canceled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates. An authorized severance leave of absence will not be treated as active employment, and, as a result, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units will not be extended by any such period.
Termination of Employment
               (b) . If the Participant's employment with the Company terminates by reason of the Participant's death or Total Disability (as defined below), then (1) a whole number of Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the Participant's last day of active employment with the Company (which, for purposes of Total Disability, means the effective date of Total Disability), with such number determined in proportion to the Participant's active service (measured in calendar days) during the period commencing on the Grant Date and ending on the Vesting Date (determined separately for the specified number of Restricted Stock Units related to each Vesting Date) and (2) such number of Restricted Stock Units shall be paid as soon as practicable after that date, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Death or Total Disability
               (c) . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to vest (and their time of payment shall be determined) after such transfer by treating the Participant's employment with the Related Entity as employment with the Company for purposes of this Agreement.
Transfers to a Related Entity
               (d) . For purposes of clarity of subparagraph 4(a) above and not of limitation, in the event that, prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, the Participant ceases active employment with the Company by reason of the Participant's Retirement (as defined below), then all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall automatically be forfeited and canceled upon the date that the Participant's active employment with the Company terminates.
Retirement
          5. . During the vesting period, the Participant shall accumulate dividend equivalents with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, which dividend equivalents shall be paid in cash (without interest) to the Participant only if and when the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest and become payable. Dividend equivalents shall equal the dividends actually paid with respect to PepsiCo Common Stock during the vesting period while (and to the extent) the Restricted Stock Units remain outstanding and unpaid.
Dividend Equivalents
     B. .
Prohibited Conduct
          In consideration of the Company disclosing and providing access to Confidential Information, as more fully described in Paragraph B.2 below, after the date hereof, the grant by the Company of the Restricted Stock Units, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Participant and the Company, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows.
 
          1. . The Participant hereby covenants and agrees that at all times during his or her employment with the Company and for a period of twelve months after the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever (including a termination due to the Participant's Retirement or Total Disability), he or she will not, without the prior written consent of PepsiCo's chief personnel officer or chief legal officer, either directly or indirectly, for himself/herself or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, partnership, corporation or other entity, engage in any activities prohibited in the following Paragraphs B.1(a) through (c):
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
               (a) The Participant shall not, in any country in which the Company operates, accept any employment, assignment, position or responsibility, or provide services in any capacity or acquire any ownership interest which involves the Participant's Participation in an entity that markets, sells, distributes or produces Covered Products, unless such entity makes retail sales or consumes Covered Products without in any way competing with the Company;
               (b) With respect to Covered Products, the Participant shall not directly or indirectly solicit for competitive business purposes any customer or Prospective Customer of the Company called on, serviced by, or contacted by the Participant in any capacity during his or her employment; or
               (c) The Participant shall not in any way, directly or indirectly (including through someone else acting on the Participant's recommendation, suggestion, identification or advice), solicit any Company employee to leave the Company's employment or to accept any position with any other entity.
          2. . In order to assist the Participant with his or her duties, the Company shall continue to provide the Participant with access to confidential and proprietary operational information and other confidential information which is either information not known by actual or potential competitors, customers and third parties of the Company or is proprietary information of the Company ("Confidential Information"). Such Confidential Information shall include all non-public information the Participant acquired as a result of his or her positions with the Company which might be of any value to a competitor of the Company, or which might cause any economic loss or substantial embarrassment to the Company or its customers, bottlers, distributors or suppliers if used or disclosed. Examples of such Confidential Information include, without limitation, non-public information about the Company's customers, suppliers, distributors and potential acquisition targets; its business operations, structure and methods of operation; its product lines, formulae and pricing; its processes, machines and inventions; its research and know-how; its production techniques; its financial data; its advertising and promotional ideas and strategy; information maintained in its computer systems; devices, processes, compilations of information and records; and its plans and strategies. The Participant agrees that such Confidential Information remains confidential even if committed to the Participant's memory. The Participant agrees, during the term of his or her employment and at all times thereafter, not to use, divulge, or furnish or make accessible to any third party, company, corporation or other organization (including but not limited to, customers, competitors, or governmental agencies), without the Company's prior written consent, any Confidential Information of the Company, except as necessary in his or her position with the Company.
Non-Disclosure
          3. . The Participant agrees that whenever the Participant's employment with the Company ends for any reason, (a) all documents containing or referring to the Company's Confidential Information as may be in the Participant's
Return of Confidential Information and Company Property
 
possession, or over which the Participant may have control, and all other property of the Company provided to the Participant by the Company during the course of the Participant's employment with the Company will be returned by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required; and (b) all Company computer and computer-related equipment and software, and all Company property, files, records, documents, drawings, specifications, lists, equipment, and similar items relating to the business of the Company, whether prepared by the Participant or otherwise, coming into the Participant's possession or control during the course of his employment shall remain the exclusive property of the Company, and shall be delivered by the Participant to the Company immediately, with no request being required.
          4. . The Participant shall not engage in any of the following acts that are considered to be contrary to the Company's best interests during the term of his or her employment with the Company: (a) violating the Company's Code of Conduct, Insider Trading Policy or any other written policies of the Company, (b) unlawfully trading in the securities of PepsiCo or of any other company based on information gained as a result of his or her employment with the Company, or (c) engaging in any activity which constitutes gross misconduct.
Misconduct
          5. . The Participant agrees that: (a) the terms and provisions of this Agreement are reasonable and constitute an otherwise enforceable agreement to which the terms and provisions of this Paragraph B are ancillary or a part of; (b) the consideration provided by the Company under this Agreement is not illusory; (c) the restrictions contained in this Paragraph B are necessary and reasonable for the protection of the legitimate business interests and goodwill of the Company; and (d) the consideration given by the Company under this Agreement, including, without limitation, the provision by the Company of Confidential Information to the Participant, gives rise to the Company's interest in the covenants set forth in this Paragraph B.
Reasonableness of Provisions
          6. . The Participant specifically recognizes and affirms that each of the covenants contained in Paragraphs B.1 through B.4 of this Agreement is a material and important term of this Agreement which has induced the Company to provide for the award of the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder, the disclosure of Confidential Information referenced herein, and the other promises made by the Company herein. The Participant further agrees that in the event that (i) the Company determines that the Participant has breached any term of Paragraphs B.1 through B.4 or (ii) all or any part of Paragraph B is held or found invalid or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever by a court of competent jurisdiction in an action between the Participant and the Company, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, the Company may in its sole discretion:
Repayment and Forfeiture
               (a) Cancel any unpaid Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder; and/or
               (b) Require the Participant to pay to the Company the value (determined as of the Payment Date) of any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder that have been paid out.
          7. . In the event the Company determines that the Participant has breached or attempted or threatened to breach any term of Paragraph B, in addition to any other remedies at law or in equity the Company may have available to it, it is agreed that the Company shall be entitled, upon application to any court of proper jurisdiction, to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction (without the necessity of (a) proving irreparable harm, (b) establishing that monetary damages are inadequate or (c) posting any bond with respect thereto) against the
Equitable Relief
 
Participant prohibiting such breach or attempted or threatened breach by proving only the existence of such breach or attempted or threatened breach.
          8. . The Participant agrees that the period during which the covenants contained in this Paragraph B shall be effective shall be computed by excluding from such computation any time during which the Participant is in violation of any provision of Paragraph B.
Extension of Restrictive Period
          9. . The Company and the Participant agree that it was their intent to enter into a valid and enforceable agreement. The Participant and the Company thereby acknowledge the reasonableness of the restrictions set forth in Paragraph B, including the reasonableness of the geographic area, duration as to time and scope of activity restrained. The Participant further acknowledges that his or her skills are such that he or she can be gainfully employed in noncompetitive employment and that the agreement not to compete will not prevent him or her from earning a living. The Participant agrees that if any covenant contained in Paragraph B of this Agreement is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to contain limitations as to time, geographical area, or scope of activity that are not reasonable and impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill or other business interest of the Company, then the court shall reform the covenant to the extent necessary to cause the limitations contained in the covenant as to time, geographical area, and scope of activity to be restrained to be reasonable and to impose a restraint that is not greater than necessary to protect the goodwill and other business interests of the Company and to enforce the covenants as reformed.
Acknowledgments
          10. . The covenants on the part of the Participant in this Paragraph B shall be construed as an agreement independent of any other agreement, including any employee benefit agreement, and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of any claim or cause of action of the Participant against the Company, whether predicated upon this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of such covenants.
Provisions Independent
          11. . The Participant agrees that the Company may notify any person or entity employing the Participant or evidencing an intention of employing the Participant of the existence and provisions of this Agreement.
Notification of Subsequent Employer
          12. . In the event the Participant transfers to a Related Entity (as defined below) as a result of actions by PepsiCo, any reference to "Company" in this Paragraph B shall be deemed to refer to such Related Entity in addition to the Company.
Transfers to a Related Entity
     C. .
Additional Terms and Conditions
          1. . In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of PepsiCo Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, spin-off or other similar corporate change, the number and type of shares to which the Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant relate shall be adjusted as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee.
Adjustment for Change in Common Stock
          2. . In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the following provisions shall apply:
Effect of Change in Control
 
               (a) If the successor corporation (or affiliate thereto) (1) assumes the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder or (2) replaces the outstanding Restricted Stock Units with equity awards that preserve the existing value of such Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control and provide for subsequent payout in accordance with a vesting schedule that is the same or more favorable to the Participant than the vesting schedule applicable to such Restricted Stock Units, then the outstanding Restricted Stock Units or such substitutes thereof shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan, subject to Paragraph C.2(c) below.
               (b) If the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are not assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.2(a) above, then upon the Change in Control, (1) the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be paid immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and (2), notwithstanding Paragraph C.2(b)(1) but after taking into account the accelerated vesting set forth therein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for cancellation of the outstanding Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Change in Control in which case a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof shall be made to the Participant that is determined by the Board in its sole discretion and that is at least equal to the value of the consideration that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of PepsiCo's securities relating to such awards.
               (c) If the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder are assumed or replaced in accordance with Paragraph C.2(a) and the Participant's employment with the Company (or, if applicable, a successor corporation) is terminated by the Company or such successor for any reasons other than Cause or by the Participant for Good Reason, in each case, within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then, as of the date of the Participant's termination, the outstanding Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder shall immediately vest and shall be paid immediately in accordance with their terms or, if later, as of the earliest permissible date under Code Section 409A. For purposes of this Paragraph C.2, "Cause" and "Good Reason" are defined in the Plan and a termination for Cause or Good Reason is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
          3. . Unless the Committee specifically determines otherwise: (a) the Restricted Stock Units are personal to the Participant and (b) the Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable or assignable, other than in the case of the Participant's death by will, the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
          4. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
               (a) "Covered Products" means any product which falls into one or more of the following categories, so long as the Company is producing, marketing, selling or licensing such product anywhere in the world: beverages, including without limitation carbonated soft drinks, tea, water, juice drinks, sports drinks, coffee drinks, and value added dairy drinks; juices and juice products; snacks, including salty snacks, sweet snacks, meat snacks, granola and cereal bars, and cookies; hot cereals; pancake mixes; value-added rice products; pancake syrup; value-added pasta products; ready-to-eat cereals; dry pasta products; or any product or service which the Participant had reason to know was under development by the Company during the Participant's employment with the Company.
 
               (b) "Participation" shall be construed broadly to include, without limitation: (i) serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or contractor with respect to such a business entity; (ii) providing input, advice, guidance or suggestions to such a business entity; or (iii) providing a recommendation or testimonial on behalf of such a business entity or one or more products it produces.
               (c) "Prospective Customer" shall mean any individual or entity of which the Participant has gained knowledge as a result of the Participant's employment with the Company and with which the Participant dealt with or had contact with during the six (6) months preceding his or her termination of employment with the Company.
               (d) "Related Entity" shall mean any entity as to which the Company directly or indirectly owns 20% or more of the entity's voting securities, general partnership interests, or other voting or management rights at the relevant time.
               (e) "Retirement" shall mean (i) early, normal or late retirement under the U.S. pension plan of the Company in which the Participant participates (if any), (ii) retirement as explicitly set out in an individual agreement between the Company and the Participant for this purpose in effect on the Grant Date, (iii) termination of employment after attaining at least age 55 with at least 10 years of service with the Company (or, if earlier, after attaining at least age 65 and completing at least five years of service with the Company), or (iv) retirement as otherwise determined by the Committee.
               (f) "Total Disability" shall mean becoming totally and permanently disabled, as determined for purposes of the Company's Long Term Disability Plan (or in the absence of such Disability Plan being applicable to the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).
          5. . Any notice to be given to PepsiCo in connection with the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to PepsiCo at 700 Andersen Hill Road, Purchase, New York 10577, Attention: Vice President, Compensation, or such other address as PepsiCo may hereafter designate to the Participant. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, addressed as aforesaid, or when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.
Notices
          6. .
Binding Effect
               (a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any assignee or successor in interest to PepsiCo, whether by merger, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of PepsiCo's assets. PepsiCo will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PepsiCo expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PepsiCo would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
               (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participant or his or her legal representative and any person to whom the Restricted Stock Units may be transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
 
          7. . This Agreement is not a contract of employment. This Agreement does not impose on the Company any obligation to retain the Participant in its employ and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company to terminate the Participant's employment relationship at any time. This Agreement shall survive the termination of the Participant's employment for any reason.
No Contract of Employment; Agreement's Survival
          8. . The Committee may require that the Participant make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee deems appropriate to assure compliance with or exemption from the requirements of any securities exchange, any foreign, federal, state or local law, any governmental regulatory body, or any other applicable legal requirement, and PepsiCo Common Stock shall not be issued unless and until the Participant makes such representations and agreements and furnished such information as the Committee deems appropriate.
Registration, Listing and Qualification of Shares
          9. . The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be amended in writing by the chief personnel officer or chief legal officer of PepsiCo (or either of their delegates), provided, however, that (i) no such amendment shall be adverse to the Participant without the Participant's written consent (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted); and (ii) the amendment must be permitted under the Plan. The Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy under this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any such right, power or remedy which the Board, the Committee or the Company has under this Agreement.
Amendment; Waiver
          10. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is deemed by a court to be broader than permitted by applicable law, then such provision shall be reformed (or otherwise revised or narrowed) so that it is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Severability or Reform by Court
          11. . The Restricted Stock Units and the terms and conditions set forth herein are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Committee reserves its rights to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participant; provided, however, that Restricted Stock Units outstanding under the Plan at the time of such action shall not, without the Participant's written consent, be adversely affected thereby (except to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that such amendment or termination is necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law, including the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder pertaining to the deferral of compensation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which PepsiCo Common Stock is listed or quoted). All interpretations or determinations of the Committee or its delegate shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Participant (and his or her legal representatives and any recipient of a transfer of the Restricted Stock Units permitted by this Agreement) on any question arising hereunder or under the Plan or other guidelines, policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.
Plan Controls
 
          12. . By entering into this Agreement, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that:
Participant Acknowledgements
               (a) the Restricted Stock Unit grant will be exclusively governed by the terms of the Plan, including the right reserved by the Company to amend or cancel the Plan at any time without the Company incurring liability to the Participant (except for Restricted Stock Units already granted under the Plan);
               (b) the Participant has been provided a copy of PepsiCo's Prospectus relating to the Plan, and the Restricted Stock Units;
               (c) restricted stock units are not a constituent part of the Participant's salary and the Participant is not entitled, under the terms and conditions of his/her employment, or by accepting or being awarded the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Agreement to require restricted stock units or other awards to be granted to him/her in the future under the Plan or any other plan;
               (d) upon vesting of Restricted Stock Units the Participant will arrange for payment to the Company an estimated amount to cover employee payroll taxes resulting from the exercise and/or, to the extent necessary, any balance may be withheld from the Participant's wages;
               (e) benefits received under the Plan will be excluded from the calculation of termination indemnities or other severance payments;
               (f) in the event of termination of the Participant's employment, a severance or notice period to which the Participant may be entitled under local law and which follows the date of termination specified in a notice of termination will not be treated as active employment for purposes of this Agreement and, as a result, vesting of Restricted Stock Units will not be extended by any such period;
               (g) the Participant will seek all necessary approval under, make all required notifications under and comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to the ownership of stock including, without limitation, currency and exchange laws, rules and regulations; and
               (h) this Agreement will be interpreted and applied so that the Restricted Stock Units will not be subject to Code Section 409A. If notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Restricted Stock Units become subject to Code Section 409A, then this Agreement will be modified to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that is necessary or appropriate for such Restricted Stock Units to comply with Code Section 409A.
          13. . The Participant shall have no rights as a holder of PepsiCo Common Stock with respect to the Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder unless and until such Restricted Stock Units have been settled in shares of Common Stock that have been registered in the Participant's name as owner.
No Rights as Shareholder
          14. . The Participant agrees, in the event that the Company in its reasonable judgment determines that the Participant owes the Company or any Related Entity any amount due to any loan, note, obligation or indebtedness, including but not limited to amounts owed to the Company pursuant to the Company's tax equalization program or the Company's policies with respect to travel and business expenses, and if the Participant has not satisfied such obligation(s), then the Company may instruct the plan administrator to withhold and/or sell shares
Right of Set-Off
 
of PepsiCo Common Stock acquired by the Participant upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the Company may deduct funds equal to the amount of such obligation from other funds due to the Participant from the Company.
          15. . The Participant hereby consents and agrees to electronic delivery of any Plan documents, proxy materials, annual reports and other related documents. The Participant hereby consents to any and all procedures that the Company has established or may establish for an electronic signature system for delivery and acceptance of Plan documents (including documents relating to any programs adopted under the Plan), and agrees that his or her electronic signature is the same as, and shall have the same force and effect as, his or her manual signature. Participant consents and agrees that any such procedures and delivery may be effected by a third party engaged by the Company to provide administrative services related to the Plan, including any program adopted under the Plan.
Electronic Delivery and Acceptance
          16. . Participant hereby acknowledges and consents to the collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data as described in this Paragraph C.16. Participant is not obliged to consent to such collection, use, processing and transfer of personal data. However, failure to provide the consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. The Company and Participant's employer hold certain personal information about Participant, that may include his/her name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number or other employee identification number, salary grade, hire data, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of PepsiCo Common Stock, or details of all options, restricted stock units or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, or unvested, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). PepsiCo and/or its subsidiaries will transfer Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of Participant's participation in the Plan, and PepsiCo and/or any of its subsidiaries may each further transfer Data to any third parties assisting PepsiCo in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. These recipients may be located throughout the world, including the United States. Participant's authorizes them to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Participant's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of shares of stock on Participant's behalf to a broker or other third party with whom Participant may elect to deposit any shares of stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. Participant may, at any time, review Data, require any necessary amendments to it or withdraw the consents herein in writing by contacting the Company; however, withdrawing consent may affect Participant's ability to participate in the Plan.
Data Privacy
          17. . The Participant agrees as a condition of this grant that, in the event that the Participant is subject to the Company's Stock Ownership or Exercise & Hold Guidelines, the Participant shall not sell any shares obtained upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units unless such sale complies with the Stock Ownership and Exercise & Hold Guidelines as in effect from time to time.
Stock Ownership / Exercise & Hold Guidelines
          18. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs C.11 and C.12, this Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to conflict of law rules or principles.
Governing Law
          19. . Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs C.11 and C.12, any action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of or based on any right arising out of this
Choice of Venue
 
Agreement may be brought against the Participant or the Company only in the courts of the State of New York or, if it has or can acquire jurisdiction, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and the Participant and the Company consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts) in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection to venue laid therein.
          20. . This Agreement contains all the understanding and agreements between the Participant and the Company regarding the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
Participant Name:
Grant Date:
$
Grant Price:
AWARD DETAILS
$ $ $
US Dollar Value Retention Award:
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD
Restricted Stock Unit Award Value:
Grant Date: Grant Price:
Number of Restricted Stock Units Granted: Vesting Date(s)*:
 
AWARD ACCEPTANCE
This PepsiCo Restricted Stock Unit Retention Award ("Award") is not considered valid unless you accept it on or before [insert date 180 days after notification]. At the bottom of this Award Summary, you can indicate that you either "Accept" or "Reject" the Award. By pressing the "Accept" button below and accepting your Award, you acknowledge having received and read this Award Summary, the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan under which this Award was granted and you agree to comply with, and be bound by, the terms and conditions of the Plan, this Award Summary and the Terms and Conditions document. If you "Reject" this Award, the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours. Likewise, if you do not either "Accept" or "Reject" this Award on or before [insert date 180 days after notification], the Award will be null and void and will NOT become yours.


