FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20100511161835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
(e) At the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders of PepsiCo, Inc. ("PepsiCo") held on May 5, 2010, PepsiCo's shareholders approved an amendment to the PepsiCo, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the "2007 Plan"), which was first approved by shareholders on May 2, 2007. The amendment to the 2007 Plan (i) increases by a total of 130 million shares the number of shares of PepsiCo common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2007 Plan, (ii) changes the method of calculating shares available for issuance under the 2007 Plan by counting each share subject to restricted stock units and other full value awards as three shares and (iii) expands the list of performance metrics that can be utilized in setting performance goals for performance-based awards to include the following additional performance metrics: productivity, brand contribution, product quality, portfolio transformation, productivity improvement, corporate value measures (such as compliance, safety, environmental and personnel matters), and goals related to corporate initiatives (such as acquisitions, dispositions or customer satisfaction).
     The amendment referred to above is described in greater detail in Proxy Item No. 3 in PepsiCo's Proxy Statement for the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders of PepsiCo ("Proxy Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2010. The descriptions of the 2007 Plan contained herein and in the Proxy Statement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the 2007 Plan (as amended and restated March 12, 2010) filed as Exhibit 10.1 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
PepsiCo's Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on May 5, 2010. At the meeting:
 
     On May 5, 2010, in accordance with PepsiCo's Corporate Governance Guidelines, the independent members of PepsiCo's Board of Directors designated James J. Schiro as the Presiding Director of PepsiCo's Board of Directors. Mr. Schiro succeeds Sharon Percy Rockefeller who served as Presiding Director from May 2007 through May 2010.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
        The purposes of the Plan are to provide long-term incentives to those persons with significant responsibility for the success and growth of PepsiCo and its subsidiaries, divisions and affiliated businesses, to associate the interests of such persons with those of PepsiCo's shareholders, to assist PepsiCo in recruiting, retaining and motivating a diverse group of employees and outside directors on a competitive basis, and to ensure a pay-for-performance linkage for such employees and outside directors.
        For purposes of the Plan, the following capitalized terms shall have the meanings specified below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     The maximum number of shares of Common Stock subject to Options and SARs that can be granted to any Eligible Person during a single calendar year shall not exceed two (2) million shares. The maximum amount of Awards other than Options and SARs that can be granted to any Eligible Person during a single calendar year shall not exceed $15 million; provided that the foregoing limitation shall be applied to an Award that is denominated in shares of Common Stock on the basis of the Fair Market Value of such shares on the date the Award is granted. Notwithstanding the limitation set forth in the preceding sentence, the maximum Award that may be granted to any Eligible Person for a Performance Period longer than one calendar year shall not exceed the foregoing annual maximum multiplied by the number of full calendar years in the Performance Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee may determine that all or a portion of any Award to a Participant, whether it is to be paid in cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, shall be deferred or may, in its sole discretion, approve deferral elections made by Participants. Deferrals shall be for such periods and upon such terms as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion, which terms shall be designed to comply with Code Section 409A.
     In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, combination or exchange of shares or other change in corporate structure affecting any class of Common Stock, the Committee shall make such adjustments in the class and aggregate number of shares which may be delivered under the Plan as described in Section 5, the individual award maximums under Section 6, the class, number, and Option Exercise Price of outstanding Options, the class number and exercise price of outstanding SARs and the class and number of shares subject to any other Awards granted under the Plan (provided the number of shares of any class subject to any Award shall always be a whole number), as may be, and to such extent (if any), determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, and any such adjustment may, in the sole discretion of the Committee, take the form of Options covering more than one class of Common Stock. Such adjustment shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of the Plan. Any adjustment of an Option or SAR under this Section 10 shall be accomplished in a manner that permits the Option or SAR to be exempt from Code Section 409A.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


