FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20100217155402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.          Other Events.
On February 17, 2010:  (i) the stockholders of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. () approved the adoption of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 3, 2009 among PepsiCo, Inc. (the ), PBG and Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (), (the ) at PBGs Special Meeting of Stockholders held on that date; and (ii) the stockholders of PepsiAmericas, Inc. () approved the adoption of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 3, 2009 among the Company, PAS and Metro (the  and, together with the PBG Merger Agreement, the ) at PAS Special Meeting of Stockholders held on that date.
PBG
Company
Metro
PBG Merger Agreement
PAS
PAS Merger Agreement
Merger Agreements
The Merger Agreements provide that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, PBG and PAS will be merged with and into Metro, with Metro continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company hopes to close the acquisitions, which remain subject to regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions, by the end of February 2010.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference into this Item 8.01.
         
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 PepsiCo, Inc. (NYSE: PEP) announced today that the stockholders of each of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. (NYSE: PBG) and PepsiAmericas, Inc. (NYSE: PAS) approved and adopted their respective merger agreements with PepsiCo and Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc. (Metro), a wholly owned subsidiary of PepsiCo, pursuant to which each of PBG and PAS will be merged with and into Metro, with Metro continuing as the surviving corporation.  
PURCHASE, N.Y.   Feb. 17, 2010
More than 99
% of
the votes cast by holders of
 
shares of
PBG
 common stock outstanding as of the record date for the meeting, voting separately as a single
class, voted to adopt the merger agreement
 with respect to
PBG
 and more than 81% of the combined voting power of
PBG
 common stock and
PBG
 Class B common stock outstanding as of the record date for the meeting, voting as a single class, voted to adopt the merger agreement with respect to
PBG
.
 
stock outstanding as of the record date for the meeting voted to adopt the merger agreement with respect to PAS.  Of the votes cast by holders of shares of PAS common stock, approximately 99.7% voted to adopt the merger agreement with respect to PAS.
Appr
oximately
86.5
% of shares of
PAS
 common
 
PepsiCo hopes to close the acquisitions, which remain subject to regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions, by the end of February 2010.
About PepsiCo
PepsiCo offers the worlds largest portfolio of billion-dollar food and beverage brands, including 18 different product lines that each generate more than $1 billion in annual retail sales. Our main businesses  Frito-Lay, Quaker, Pepsi-Cola, Tropicana and Gatorade  also make hundreds of other tasty foods and drinks that bring joy to our consumers in over 200 countries. With more than $43 billion in 2009 revenues, PepsiCo employs approximately 203,000 people who are united by our unique commitment to sustainable growth, called Performance with Purpose. By dedicating ourselves to offering a broad array of choices for healthy, convenient and fun nourishment, reducing our environmental impact, and fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace
 
 
 


