FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20101007074811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 is a copy of the press release issued by PepsiCo, Inc. ("PepsiCo"), dated October 7, 2010, reporting PepsiCo's financial results for the 12 and 36 weeks ended September 4, 2010.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Q3 Financial Highlights
PURCHASE, N.Y., October 7  PepsiCo, Inc. (NYSE: PEP) today reported solid volume, revenue and profit results for the third quarter of 2010, driven by broad-based gains across its snack and beverage portfolio and the acquisition of its two anchor bottlers.
"Even in a macroeconomic environment that continues to be challenging, we believe we have achieved top-tier performance among leading consumer staple companies," said PepsiCo Chairman and CEO Indra Nooyi. "This reflects our steadfast commitment to managing both the short-term and long-term, by driving balanced growth across our portfolio while making the right strategic investments."
The company also announced the creation of a new Global Nutrition Group to allow PepsiCo to deliver breakthrough innovation in the areas of fruits and vegetables, grains, dairy and functional nutrition. Based in Chicago, it will be run by PepsiCo's chief scientific officer, Dr. Mehmood Khan, who has been named CEO of the new group and retains responsibility for the company's research and development organization.
 
 
"The creation of this Global Nutrition Group is part of our long-term strategy to grow our nutrition businesses from about $10 billion in revenues today to $30 billion by 2020," Ms. Nooyi continued.
"The market potential is significant, our stable of brands  Quaker, Tropicana, Lebedyansky, Sabra, Alvalle  impressive, and our go-to-market systems powerful. We have been actively ramping up our innovation capabilities and developing strong partnerships with the scientific community, including with universities and research institutions around the world. I believe we are well equipped to deliver authentically nutritious products advantaged by science in an accessible and affordable way to consumers globally."
 
2
 
All references below to net revenue are on a constant currency basis, and to operating profit are on a core, constant currency basis. In addition, all comparisons are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted.
all businesses posted sequential improvements in volume and operating profit growth
In PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF)
:
volume, net revenue and operating profit results were driven by the favorable impact of the bottling acquisitions, synergies and improving sequential organic volume trends across the product portfolio in North America.
PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB)
volume, net revenue and operating profit growth were driven by broad-based gains across the region in both snacks and beverages as the business balanced net revenue realization with innovative consumer value programs while keeping a sharp focus on productivity. The division also benefited from the favorable impact of the bottling acquisitions.
Europe
3
 
volume gains in both snacks and beverages drove strong top-line performance. As expected, operating profit growth declined in the quarter as the region overlapped 31 points of growth in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 related to a gain recorded in connection with the contribution of our snacks business in Japan to form a joint venture with Calbee Foods, the snacks market leader in Japan. Operating profit performance in the division was also impacted by the step-up of investments in emerging markets as we continue to expand our footprint and build capability in both snacks and beverages.
In Asia, Middle East and Africa (AMEA)
Tax Rate
PepsiCo's reported tax rate was 27.4 percent in the third quarter, versus 24.9 percent in the prior-year period. The increase in the rate versus the prior-year period was primarily driven by the favorable resolution of certain foreign tax matters and certain deferred tax adjustments recorded in the prior year. PepsiCo's core tax rate was 27.4 percent for the third quarter. The company expects its full-year reported tax rate to be roughly 23 to 24 percent, which reflects a benefit of about four percentage points from non-core items.
Cash Flow
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $5.8 billion. Management operating cash flow, which is net of capital expenditures, was $4.2 billion and included: $0.3 billion ($0.2 billion net of tax) of merger and integration payments associated with our bottling acquisitions, $1.2 billion ($0.8 billion, net of tax) related to discretionary contributions to PepsiCo's pension funds, $29 million related to 2009 restructuring charges, $100 million ($64 million, net of tax) related to a donation to the PepsiCo Foundation and $33 million in capital investments related to the bottler integration. Management operating cash flow, excluding these items, was $5.3 billion.
For the year, the company expects cash flow from operating activities to be about $8.0 billion and management operating cash flow, which is net of capital expenditures, to be about $4.7 billion, including: discretionary contributions to PepsiCo's pension funds of $1.2 billion, about $0.4 billion of merger and integration payments associated with our bottling acquisitions, the $100 million donation to the Foundation, $29 million related to 2009 restructuring charges, about $200 million in capital investments related to the bottler integration, and about $600 million of cash tax benefits related to these items. Management operating cash flow, excluding these items, is expected to be approximately $6.1 billion. The company expects to invest about $3.3 billion in net capital spending in 2010.
4
 
Guidance
For fiscal 2010, the company is targeting an 11 to 12 percent growth rate for core constant currency EPS from its fiscal 2009 core EPS of $3.71, which is within the previous guidance range of 11 to 13 percent. Based on current spot rates, foreign exchange translation would represent a one percentage point unfavorable impact on the company's full-year, core EPS. As a result, growth in core EPS for the year is expected to be in the 10 to 11 percent range.
     
Synergies
     
Uses of Cash
     
Impact of Venezuelan Devaluation
Please refer to the glossary for more information about the items excluded from the company's fiscal 2010 core constant currency EPS guidance.
At 8 a.m. (Eastern Time) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss third-quarter results and the outlook for full-year 2010. Further details, including a slide presentation accompanying the call, will be accessible on the company's website at www.pepsico.com/investors in advance of the call.
5
 
About PepsiCo
PepsiCo offers the world's largest portfolio of billion-dollar food and beverage brands, including 19 different product lines that each generates more than $1 billion in annual retail sales. Our main businesses  Frito-Lay, Quaker, Pepsi-Cola, Tropicana and Gatorade  also make hundreds of other nourishing, tasty foods and drinks that bring joy to our consumers in more than 200 countries. With annualized revenues of nearly $60 billion, PepsiCo's people are united by our unique commitment to sustainable growth, called Performance with Purpose. By dedicating ourselves to offering a broad array of choices for healthy, convenient and fun nourishment, reducing our environmental impact, and fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace culture, PepsiCo balances strong financial returns with giving back to our communities worldwide. For more information, please visit www.pepsico.com.
Cautionary Statement
Statements in this release that are "forward-looking statements," including PepsiCo's 2010 guidance, are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: changes in demand for PepsiCo's products, as a result of changes in consumer preferences and tastes or otherwise; damage to PepsiCo's reputation; trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with PepsiCo's bottling partners; PepsiCo's ability to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce; unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where PepsiCo operates; changes in the legal and regulatory environment; PepsiCo's ability to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement its ongoing business process transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively; unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates; PepsiCo's ability to compete effectively; increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies; disruption of PepsiCo's supply chain; climate change or changes in legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change; PepsiCo's ability to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisitions of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. and PepsiAmericas, Inc.; failure to renew collective bargaining agreements or strikes or work stoppages; and any downgrade of PepsiCo's credit rating resulting in an increase of its future borrowing costs.
For additional information on these and other factors that could cause PepsiCo's actual results to materially differ from those set forth herein, please see PepsiCo's filings with the SEC, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. PepsiCo undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Miscellaneous Disclosures
Reconciliation. In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found in the attached exhibits, as well as on the company's website at www.pepsico.com in the "Investors" section under "News & Events." Our non-GAAP measures exclude from reported results those items that management believes are not indicative of our ongoing performance and how management evaluates our operating results and trends.
6
 
Glossary
Beverage volume: Volume shipped to retailers and independent distributors from both PepsiCo and our bottlers.
CoreCore results are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude the following items: the commodity mark-to-market net impact included in corporate unallocated expenses, restructuring charges, a one-time charge related to the change to hyperinflationary accounting and devaluation in Venezuela, an asset write-off for SAP software, a contribution to the Foundation, and with respect to our PBG and PAS mergers, merger and integration charges, certain fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and the gain on previously held equity interests in PBG and PAS. For more details and reconciliations of our 2010 and 2009 core and core constant currency results and full-year 2010 core constant currency EPS guidance, see "Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information" in the exhibits attached hereto.
:
Constant currency: Financial results (historical and projected) assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for translation based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In addition, the impact on EPS growth is computed by adjusting core EPS growth by the after-tax foreign currency translation impact on core operating profit growth using PepsiCo's core effective tax rate.
Division operating profit: The aggregation of the operating profit for each of our reportable segments, which excludes the impact of corporate unallocated expenses.
Effective net pricing: The combined impact of mix and price.
Management operating cash flow: Net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending plus sales of property, plant and equipment. This non-GAAP financial measure is our primary measure used to monitor cash flow performance. See the attached exhibits for a reconciliation of this measure to the most directly comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP (operating cash flow).
7
 
Management operating cash flow, excluding certain items: Management operating cash flow, excluding: (1) discretionary pension contributions in both 2010 and 2009, (2) restructuring payments in connection with our Productivity for Growth initiative in 2009, (3) acquisition and integration payments paid in 2010 in connection with our PBG and PAS acquisitions, (4) a contribution to The PepsiCo Foundation in 2010, and (5) capital investments in 2010 related to the bottling integration, and (6) the tax impacts associated with each of these items, as applicable. See the attached exhibits for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP (operating cash flow).
Mark-to-market gain or loss or net impact: Change in market value for commodity contracts that we purchase to mitigate the volatility in costs of energy and raw materials that we consume. The market value is determined based on average prices on national exchanges and recently reported transactions in the marketplace.
Net pricing: The combined impact of list price changes, weight changes per package, discounts and allowances.
Net capital spending: Capital spending less cash proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment.
Pricing: The impact of list price changes and weight changes per package.
Transaction foreign exchange: The foreign exchange impact on our financial results of transactions, such as purchases of imported raw materials, commodities, or services, occurring in currencies other than the local, functional currency.
8
 
 
 
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
Division operating profit, core results and core constant currency results are non-GAAP financial measures as they exclude certain items noted below. However, we believe investors should consider these measures as they are more indicative of our ongoing performance and with how management evaluates our operational results and trends.
Commodity mark-to-market net impact
In the 12 and 36 weeks ended September 4, 2010, we recognized $16 million and $58 million, respectively, of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. In the 12 and 36 weeks ended September 5, 2009, we recognized $29 million and $191 million, respectively, of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. In the year ended December 26, 2009, we recognized $274 million of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. Certain of these commodity derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and are marked to market with the resulting gains and losses recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions take delivery of the underlying commodity.
PBG/PAS merger and integration charges
In the 12 weeks ended September 4, 2010, we incurred merger and integration charges of $69 million related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, including $38 million recorded in the PAB segment, $15 million recorded in the Europe segment and $16 million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses. In the 36 weeks ended September 4, 2010, we incurred merger and integration charges of $536 million related to our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, including $334 million recorded in the PAB segment, $44 million recorded in the Europe segment, $128 million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses and $30 million recorded in interest expense. These charges are being incurred to help create a more fully integrated supply chain and go-to-market business model, to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the distribution of our brands and to enhance our revenue growth. These charges also include closing costs, one-time financing costs and advisory fees related to the acquisitions. In addition, in the 36 weeks ended September 4, 2010, we recorded $9 million of charges, representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS, recorded in bottling equity income. In the 12 and 36 weeks ended September 5, 2009, we incurred merger-related charges of $1 million related to these acquisitions, as well as an additional $8 million of merger-related charges, representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS, recorded in bottling equity income. In the year ended December 26, 2009, we incurred $50 million of costs associated with these acquisitions, as well as an additional $11 million of costs representing our share of the respective merger costs of PBG and PAS, recorded in bottling equity income.
2009 restructuring and impairment charges
As a result of our previously initiated Productivity for Growth program, in the 36 weeks ended September 5, 2009, we recorded $36 million of restructuring and impairment charges. The program includes actions in all segments of the business, including the closure of six plants that we believe will increase cost competitiveness across the supply chain, upgrade and streamline our product portfolio and simplify the organization for more effective and timely decision-making.
Gain on previously held equity interests in PBG and PAS
In the first quarter of 2010, in connection with our acquisitions of PBG and PAS, we recorded a gain on our previously held equity interests of $958 million, comprising $735 million which is non-taxable and recorded in bottling equity income and $223 million related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities associated with these previously held equity interests.
Inventory fair value adjustments
In the 12 weeks ended September 4, 2010, in the PAB segment, we recorded $17 million of incremental costs, substantially all in cost of sales, related to fair value adjustments to the acquired inventory and other related hedging contracts included in PBG's and PAS's balance sheets at the acquisition date. In the 36 weeks ended September 4, 2010, we recorded $374 million of incremental costs, substantially all in cost of sales, related to fair value adjustments to the acquired inventory and other related hedging contracts included in PBG's and PAS's balance sheets at the acquisition date, including $334 million recorded in the PAB segment and $40 million recorded in the Europe segment.
Venezuela currency devaluation
As of the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year, we recorded a one-time $120 million net charge related to our change to hyperinflationary accounting for our Venezuelan businesses and the related devaluation of the bolivar fuerte (bolivar). $129 million of this net charge was recorded in corporate unallocated expenses, with the balance (income of $9 million) recorded in our PAB segment.
 
Asset write-off for SAP software
In the first quarter of 2010, we recorded a $145 million charge related to a change in scope of one release in our ongoing migration to SAP software. This change was driven, in part, by a review of our North America systems strategy following our acquisitions of PBG and PAS. This change does not impact our overall commitment to continue our implementation of SAP across our global operations over the next few years.
Foundation contribution
In the first quarter of 2010, we made a $100 million contribution to The PepsiCo Foundation, Inc. (Foundation), in order to fund charitable and social programs over the next several years. This contribution was recorded in corporate unallocated expenses.
Additionally, management operating cash flow is the primary measure management uses to monitor cash flow performance. This is not a measure defined by GAAP. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities.
We are not able to reconcile our full-year projected 2010 core constant currency EPS to our full-year projected 2010 reported results because we are unable to predict the 2010 full-year impact of foreign exchange or the mark-to-market net gains or losses on commodity hedges due to the unpredictability of future changes in foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. Therefore, we are unable to provide a reconciliation of these measures.
 
Operating Profit Growth Reconciliation
 
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation
Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo Reconciliation
 
Diluted EPS Reconciliation
Diluted EPS Reconciliation
 
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation (in whole dollars)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


