FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20100211115019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events.
On
February 11, 2010
, PepsiCo, Inc. (the 
Company
) issued a press release announcing its unaudited fiscal 2009 fourth quarter and full year financial results.  Among other things, for the full year the Company reported net
revenue
of $43
.
2
b
illion
,
operating profit of $8
.0
 
b
illion
and
earnings per share of $3.77 for its fiscal year ending
December 26, 2009
.  It also reported net revenue of
$13.3 billion,
operating profit of $2.0 billion
and
earnings per share of $0.90 for the fourth quarter of such fiscal year.  The Company
indicated
that it hopes to close its proposed acquisitions of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. and PepsiAmericas, Inc. by the end of February 2010.  The Company also announced that as a result of its recent integration planning efforts, the Company is now targeting pre-tax annualized synergies from the proposed bottler acquisitions of approximately $400 million once fully implemented by 2012, with one-time costs of about the same amount.  Synergies to be realized in 2010 are expected to total approximately $125 to $150 million. The Company stated that it is still in the process of completing its integration planning.  In addition, the Company stated that it expects to resume repurchasing its shares upon the close of the
bottling
acquisitions and anticipates that in 2010 share repurchases, together with a voluntary $600 million pension plan contribution, would total about $5 billion.
Cautionary Statement
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. PepsiCo, Inc. () and The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. () have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission () a registration statement on Form S-4 containing a proxy statement/prospectus and other documents with respect to the proposed acquisition of PBG. PepsiCo and PepsiAmericas, Inc. () have filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 containing a proxy statement/prospectus and other documents with respect to the proposed acquisition of PAS. .
PepsiCo
PBG
SEC
PAS
INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF PBG AND PAS ARE URGED TO READ THE APPLICABLE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION
 
Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statements and the proxy statements/prospectuses and other documents filed with the SEC by PepsiCo, PBG or PAS through the website maintained by the SEC at . Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by PepsiCo are available free of charge on PepsiCos internet website at or by contacting PepsiCos Investor Relations Department at 914-253-3035. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by PBG are also available free of charge on PBGs internet website at or by contacting PBGs Investor Relations Department at 914-767-7216. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by PAS are also available free of charge on PASs internet website at or by contacting PASs Investor Relations Department at 612-661-3883.
www.sec.gov
www.pepsico.com
www.pbg.com
www.pepsiamericas.com
 
 
 
Statements in this communication that are forward-looking statements are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: PepsiCos ability to consummate the acquisitions of PBG and PAS and to achieve the synergies and value creation contemplated by the proposed acquisitions; PepsiCos ability to promptly and effectively integrate the businesses of PBG, PAS and PepsiCo; the timing to consummate the proposed acquisitions and any necessary actions to obtain required regulatory approvals; the diversion of management time on transaction-related issues; changes in demand for PepsiCos products, as a result of shifts in consumer preferences or otherwise; increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies; unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates; PepsiCos ability to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement its ongoing business process transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively; damage to PepsiCos reputation; trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with PepsiCos bottling partners, including as a result of the proposed acquisitions; PepsiCos ability to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce; changes in the legal and regulatory environment; disruption of PepsiCos supply chain; unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where PepsiCo operates; and risks that benefits from PepsiCos Productivity for Growth initiative may not be achieved, may take longer to achieve than expected or may cost more than currently anticipated.
For additional information on these and other factors that could cause PepsiCos actual results to materially differ from those set forth herein, please see PepsiCos filings with the SEC, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. PepsiCo undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 


