FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20101202063034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.          Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 1, 2010, PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation (the ), Pepsi-Cola (Bermuda) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (), , a wholly owned subsidiary of WBD (defined below), and , a wholly owned subsidiary of WBD (defined below) (each, a 
Company
PCBL
Gavril A. Yushvaev, David Iakobachvili, Mikhail V. Dubinin, Sergei A. Plastinin, Alexander S. Orlov, Mikhail I. Vishnaykov, Aladaro Limited, Tony D. Maher, Dmitry Ivanov, Wimm Bill Dann Finance Cyprus Ltd.
Wimm-Bill-Dann Finance Co. Ltd.
Seller and collectively, the ), entered into a Purchase Agreement (the ).
Sellers
Purchase Agreement
The Purchase Agreement provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement, PCBL will acquire American Depositary Receipts, Global Depositary Shares and ordinary shares, par value 20 rubles per share (collectively, ), of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC, a company incorporated in the Russian Federation (), representing, in the aggregate, 66% of the total outstanding ordinary shares of WBD, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately US$3.8 billion in cash.  Certain Sellers have entered into pledge and similar agreements for the benefit of PCBL with respect to WBD Securities to secure their obligations under the Purchase Agreement.
WBD Securities
WBD
Consummation of the transaction is subject to various conditions, including the absence of legal prohibitions and the receipt of certain regulatory approvals.  Consummation of the transaction is not subject to a financing condition.
The Purchase Agreement contains termination rights for both PCBL and the Sellers.  The Purchase Agreement automatically terminates if the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement have not occurred within 7 months after the signing date.  The Purchase Agreement restricts the right of Sellers to transfer their shares for specified periods if the Purchase Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances.
The foregoing summary of the Purchase Agreement, and the transactions contemplated thereby, does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Purchase Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The Purchase Agreement has been included to provide security holders with information regarding its terms.  It is not intended to provide any other factual information about the Company, or WBD.  The warranties and covenants contained in the Purchase Agreement were made solely for purposes of such agreement and as of specific dates, were solely for the benefit of the parties to the Purchase Agreement, may be subject to limitations agreed upon by the contracting parties, including being qualified by confidential disclosures made for the purposes of allocating contractual risk between the parties to the Purchase Agreement instead of establishing these matters as facts, and may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to the contracting part ies that differ from those applicable to security holders.  Security holders are not third-party beneficiaries under the Purchase Agreement and should not rely on the warranties and covenants or any descriptions thereof as characterizations of the actual state of facts or condition of the Company, or WBD.  Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the  warranties may change after the date of the Purchase Agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in the Companys public disclosures.
PCBL
PCBL
 
 
 
 
 
         
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 7.01 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 is a copy of the joint press release .
dated December 2, 2010 issued by PepsiCo, Inc. and Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC
 
Item 9.01.          Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 2.1
 
EXECUTION COPY
PURCHASE AGREEMENT
dated as of
December 1, 2010
among
PEPSI-COLA (BERMUDA) LIMITED,
solely for the purposes of Section 9.14,
PEPSICO, INC.
and
THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
i
 
 
 
ii
 
 
 
 
Annex A  Seller Shares
Annex B  Form of Power of Attorney
Annex C  Forms of Director Resignation
 
 
iii
 
 
PURCHASE AGREEMENT
PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this ) dated as of December 1, 2010 among (i) Pepsi- Cola (Bermuda) Limited, a company organized under the laws of Bermuda (), and, solely for the purposes of Section 9.14, PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation ( ), (ii) Gavril A. Yushvaev, David Iakobachvili, Mikhail V. Dubinin, Sergei A.Plastinin, Alexander S. Orlov, Mikhail I. Vishnaykov, Aladoro Limited, a company organized under the laws of Cyprus, (each, a ), and (iii) Wimm Bill Dann Finance Cyprus Ltd., a company organized under the laws of Cyprus, Wimm-Bill-Dann Finance Co. Ltd., a company organized under the laws of the Russian Federation, Tony D. Maher and Dmitry Ivanov (each, a ).
Agreement
Buyer
Buyer
Guarantor
 
Shareholder Seller
Designated Seller
W I T N E S S E T H:
WHEREAS, the Shareholder Sellers and Designated Sellers (each, a  and collectively, the ) are the record and beneficial owner of the Shares set forth opposite their respective names on ();
Seller
Sellers
Annex A
Seller Shares
WHEREAS, simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement, Buyer and certain Sellers have entered into pledge agreements (the ); and
Pledge Agreements
WHEREAS, each Seller desires to sell its respective Seller Shares to Buyer, and Buyer desires to purchase such Seller Shares from each Seller, upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
The parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
I
NTERPRETATION
Section 1.01 (a) The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
. Definitions.
 means the Securities Act of 1933.
1933 Act
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
1934 Act
 means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such Person; that neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries are or shall be considered an Affiliate of any Seller that is not a Subsidiary of the Company. For purposes of this definition,  when used with respect to any Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, and the terms & #8221; and  have correlative meanings.
Affiliate
provided
control
controlling
controlled
 
 
 
 
 
 means, with respect to any Person, any transnational, domestic or foreign federal, state or local law (statutory, common or otherwise), constitution, treaty, convention, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order, injunction, judgment, decree, ruling or other similar requirement enacted, adopted, promulgated or applied by a Governmental Authority that is binding upon or applicable to such Person, as amended.
Applicable Law
 means December 31, 2009.
Balance Sheet Date
 means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York, New York or in Moscow (the Russian Federation) are authorized or required by Applicable Law to close.
Business Day
 means any Encumbrances in favor of Buyer or any Affiliate of Buyer pursuant to the Pledge Agreements or otherwise.
Buyer Encumbrances
 means the date of Closing.
Closing Date
 means those statements set forth at Sections 3.06 to 3.17 (inclusive).
Closing Warranties
 means Wimm-Bill -Dann Foods OJSC, a company incorporated in the Russian Federation (registered number 1037700236738).
Company
 means any Russian Depositary or Other Depositary.
Depositary
  means all those documents and information relating to the business of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries disclosed and provided to Buyer (or its agents or advisers) prior to the date hereof and as listed at Schedule 1.01 of the Seller Disclosure Letter.
Disclosed Documents
 means a mortgage, charge, pledge, lien, option, restriction, right of first refusal, right of pre-emption, third party right or interest, other encumbrance or security interest or derivative of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement (including a title transfer or retention arrangement) having similar effect (and, where used in respect of Shares or other equity interest, voting trust and any voting agreements or arrangements).
Encumbrance
 means the Federal Antimonopoly Service of the Russian Federation.
FAS
 means an approval of FAS for the acquisition of Seller Shares by Buyer pursuant to this Agreement; provided that such approval and the Governmental Commission Approval, taken together, shall not include the imposition of a condition or obligation on Buyer to divest or dispose of assets of either the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or Buyer or any of its Affiliates, that in the aggregate accounted for
FAS Approval
US$ 250,000,000 (or its equivalent as determined in accordance with applicable accounting rules) or more of the annual net revenues (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, value added tax) of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or Buyer and its Affiliates, determined in accordance with
 
2
 
 
GAAP as applicable for the 12 month period ending on the end of the date of the most recent applicable annual audited accounts.
 means the Federal Service of Financial Markets of the Russian Federation.
FSFM
 means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
GAAP
 means any transnational, domestic or foreign federal, state or local governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, department, court, agency or official, including any political subdivision thereof.
Governmental Authority
 means the Governmental Commission on Control over Foreign Investments in the Russian Federation.
Governmental Commission
 means the approval of the Governmental Commission necessary for the acquisition of Seller Shares by Buyer pursuant to this Agreement; provided that such approval and the FAS Approval, taken together, shall not include the imposition of a condition or obligation on Buyer to divest or dispose of assets of either the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or Buyer or any of its Affiliates, that in the aggregate accounted for US$ 250,000,000 (or its equivalent as determined in accordance with applicable accounting rules) or more of the annual net revenues (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, value added tax) of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or Buyer and its Affiliates, determined in accordance with GAAP as applicable for the 12 month pe riod ending on the end of the date of the most recent applicable annual audited accounts.
Governmental Commission Approval
 means a material adverse effect on the financial condition, business or assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, excluding any effect to the extent resulting from (A) changes in the general economic or political conditions in or affecting the Russian Federation or Ukraine not having a materially disproportionate effect on the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, relative to other participants in the industry in which the Company and its Subsidiaries operate, (B) changes (including changes of Applicable Law) or conditions generally affecting the industry in which the Company and its Subsidiaries operate and not specifically relating to or having a materially disproportionate effect on the Company and its Subsidiari es, taken as a whole, (C) acts of war, sabotage or terrorism or natural disasters involving or affecting the Russian Federation not having a materially disproportionate effect on the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, relative to other participants in the industry in which the Company and its Subsidiaries operate, and (D) the announcement or performance of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
 means any depositary in whose books any Seller has a depo account in relation to any Seller Shares held by such Seller other than a Russian Depositary.
Other Depositary
 means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, trust or other entity or organization, including a Governmental Authority.
Person
 
3
 
 
 means any land or premises leased or owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries with a book value in excess of US$10,000,000.
Property
 means US$ 132 per Share in cash.
Purchase Price Per Share
  means a Russian licensed registrar in the books of which any Seller has a personal account in relation to any Seller Shares held by such Seller.
Registrar
 means, other than Buyer and its Affiliates, a Person (together with its Affiliates) whose business is (or is substantially comprised of) the manufacturing of food, beverage or dairy products with annual sales, by reference to its most recent ended fiscal year, in excess of US$ 15 billion.
Restricted Buyer
 means lawful currency of the Russian Federation.
Rubles
 means any Russian licensed depositary in whose books any Seller has a depo account in relation to any Seller Shares held by such Seller.
Russian Depositary
 means the FAS Approval and the Governmental Commission Approval.
Russian Regulatory Approvals
 means all laws applicable to activities in the Russian securities market, including Federal Law dated 22 April 1996 No. 39- FZ On Securities Market, Federal Law dated 5 March 1999 No. 46-FZ On Protection of Rights and Legal Interests of Investors in the Securities Market, Federal Law dated 27 July 2010 No.224- FZ On Countering the Illegal Use of Insider Information and Market Manipulation and On Amending Certain Legislative Acts of the Russian Federation all as amended, and any regulations passed in accordance with the above-mentioned laws and regulations of the FSFM.
Russian Securities Laws
 means the United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 means the disclosure schedules dated the date hereof regarding this Agreement that have been provided by Sellers (with the exception of Mr. Iakobashvili who has provided a separate disclosure letter (the  ) and Mr. Plastinin who has provided a separate disclosure letter (the ) to Buyer.
Seller Disclosure Letter
Iakobachvili Disclosure
Letter
Plastinin Disclosure Letter
 means ordinary shares of the Company (including ordinary shares of the Company underlying the Companys American Depositary Shares and Global Depositary Shares), each with a nominal value of 20 Rubles.
Shares
 means the shareholders register of the Company maintained on behalf of the Company in accordance with Russian law for the purpose of recording rights for the Companys Shares.
Shareholders Register
 
4
 
 means this Agreement, the Pledge Agreements and any account control agreement, blocked account agreement or similar agreement contemplated thereby and all other documents to be executed and delivered by each Seller and Buyer in connection herewith or therewith.
Specified Agreements
 means, with respect to any Person, any entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person.
Subsidiary
 means those warranties set forth at Sections 3.01 to 3.05 (inclusive).
Title Warranties
 means lawful currency of the United States of America.
US$
(b)   Each of the following terms is defined in the Section set forth opposite such term:
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
Section 1.02 The words hereof, herein and hereunder and words of like import used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. The captions herein are included for convenience of reference only and shall be ignored in the construction or interpretation hereof. References to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules are to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules of this Agreement unless otherwise specified. All Exhibits and Schedules annexed hereto or referred to herein are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement as if set forth in full herein. Any capitalized terms used in any Exhibit or Schedule but n ot otherwise defined therein, shall have the meaning as defined in this Agreement. Any singular term in this Agreement shall be deemed to include the plural, and any plural term the singular. Whenever the words include, includes or including are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words without limitation, whether or not they are in fact followed by those words or words of like import. Writing, written and comparable
. Other Definitional and Interpretative Provisions.
terms refer to printing, typing and other means of reproducing words (including electronic media) in a visible form. References to any statute shall be deemed to refer to such statute as amended from time to time and to any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder. References to any agreement or contract are to that agreement or contract as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in ac cordance with the terms hereof and thereof; that with respect to any agreement or contract listed on any schedules hereto, all such amendments, modifications or supplements must also be listed in the appropriate schedule. References to any Person include the successors and permitted assigns of that Person. References from or through any date mean, unless otherwise specified, from and including or through and including, respectively.
provided
 
6
 
 
References to law, laws or to a particular statute or law shall be deemed also to include an and all Applicable Law.
Section 1.03 Any reference to awareness or knowledge of any Seller is to the actual awareness or knowledge of each Seller (or, in the case of any Seller that is not an individual, any officer or director of such Seller) as the case may be. Knowledge of any one Seller shall not under any circumstances be deemed the knowledge or awareness of any other Seller.
. Awareness and Knowledge of Sellers.
Section 1.04 Any amount to be converted from one currency into another currency for the purposes of this Agreement shall, unless otherwise expressly stated, be converted into an equivalent amount at the Conversion Rate prevailing at the Relevant Date. For the purposes of this Section 1.04:
. Currency Conversion.
 means (i) where one of the currencies is Rubles, the official exchange rate established by the Central Bank of Russia for the exchange of the relevant currency into Rubles; and (ii) in all other cases the close spot mid-trade composite London rate for a transaction between the two currencies in question as quoted on Bloomberg, in either case on the date immediately preceding the Relevant Date or, if no such rate is established or quoted on that date, on the preceding date on which such rates are quoted; and
Conversion Rate
 means, save as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Business Day immediately preceding the date on which a payment or an assessment is to be made, save that, for the following purposes, the date shall mean:
Relevant Date
For the avoidance of doubt, a limitation or threshold expressed in a given currency shall be deemed to also constitute a limitation or threshold in an equivalent amount in another currency.
ARTICLE 2
S P
ALE AND
URCHASE
Section 2.01. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, each Seller agrees to sell to Buyer its respective Seller Shares and Buyer agrees to purchase such Seller Shares from each Seller at Closing at a price per Share equal to the Purchase Price Per Share (the aggregate Purchase Price Per Share, the ). For the avoidance of doubt, (a) the Purchase Price Per Share shall be paid in US$ and (b) for American Depositary Receipts and Global Depositary Receipts in respect of Shares, the Purchase Price Per Share shall be calculated with respect to the fraction of Shares underlying such American Depositary Receipts and Global Depositary Receipts (, each such American Depositary Receipt or Global Depositary Receipt represents 1/4 of a Share).
Purchase and Sale.
Consideration
i.e.
 
7
 
 
Section 2.02. . The closing () of the purchase and sale of the Seller Shares hereunder shall take place at the offices of Linklaters CIS, Paveletskaya Sq. 2, bld. 2, Moscow 115054, as soon as possible, but in no event later than five Business Days, following the date on which the conditions set forth in Article 7 have been satisfied or, to the extent permissible, waived by the party entitled to the benefit of such conditions, or at such other time or place as Buyer and Sellers may agree. At Closing:
Closing
Closing
(a)  
Buyer shall deliver to each Seller:
(i)
 
the Purchase Price Per Share multiplied by the number of Seller Shares held by such Seller in immediately available funds by wire transfer to an account or accounts of such Seller (or to such Sellers order) with a bank or banks designated by such Seller, by notice to Buyer, which notice shall be delivered not later than three Business Days prior to the Closing Date (or if not so designated, then by certified or official bank check payable in immediately available funds to the order of such Seller in such amount);
(ii)
 
an extract from the Shareholders Register evidencing that the Registrar has opened a personal account of Buyer in the Shareholders Register (and as provided to Sellers at least three Business Days prior to the Closing Date);
(iii)
 
all the relevant details of Buyers personal account in the Shareholders Register required to be specified in a transfer order or settlement instruction for the transferee (and as provided to Sellers at least three Business Days prior to the Closing Date); and
(iv)
 
all the relevant details of Buyers depo account with any Other Depositary required to be specified in a transfer order or settlement instruction for the transferee (and as provided to Sellers at least three Business Days prior to the Closing Date).
(b)  
Each Seller shall deliver to Buyer:
(i)
 
an original power of attorney of such Seller in the form attached as stating that if such Sellers Seller Shares are registered in the name of Buyer after thelist of persons entitled to participate in a general shareholders meeting of the Company to be held after Closing is compiled, but before the date of such meeting, Buyer shall have the power to exercise such Sellers voting rights in relation to all such Sellers Seller Shares at any such general shareholder s meeting;
Annex
B
 
(ii)
 
if such Sellers Seller Shares are held through a Depositary: original extracts from the depo account / statements of holding for safekeeping account (
 
) of such Seller opened with therelevant Depositary, dated not earlier than five Business Days before the Closing Date, evidencing such Sellers title, free of any Encumbrances (other than any Buyer Encumbrances), to its respective Seller Shares;
l 0;   /    
 
 
8
 
 
(iii)
 
if such Sellers Seller Shares are held directly in the Shareholders Register by such Seller: original extracts from such Sellers personal account in the Shareholders Register, dated not earlier than five Business Days before the Closing Date, evidencing such Sellers title free of any Encumbrances (other than any Buyer Encumbrances, if applicable), to its respective Seller Shares;
(iv)
 
documentation evidencing the termination of the Released Encumbrances, together with relevant corporate approvals and signing authority documents;
(v)
 
a resignation effective as of the Closing from each Seller that is a member of the board of directors of the Company (the ) or the board of directors of any Subsidiary of the Company from the Board or such other board, as applicable, substantially in the form of ;
Board
Annex C, Part 1
(vi)
 
a resignation effective as of the Closing from each Shareholder Seller that is a member of the board of directors (the ) of any of the Companys Subsidiary that is a company incorporated under the laws of Russian Federation (the ), from any such Russian Board substantially in the form of
Russian Board
Russian Subsidiary
Annex
C, Part 2;
(vii)
 
a resignation effective as of the Closing from each Shareholder Seller that is a member of the board of directors (the ) of any of the Companys Subsidiary that is a company incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Cyprus (the ), from any such Cypriot Board substantially in the form of
Cypriot Board
Cypriot Subsidiary
Annex
C, Part 3;
(viii)
 
a written resolution of the board of directors of any Cypriot Subsidiary (including Wimm-Bill-Dann Finance Cyprus Ltd.) appointing director(s) nominated by the Buyer to the relevant Cypriot Board (if as a result of the resignation of the member of that Cypriot Board envisaged in Section 2.02(b) (vii) above the number of members of that Cypriot Board becomes less than the minimum number of directors provided for by that Cypriot Subsidiarys constitutional documents);
(ix)
 
a resignation effective as of the Closing from each Shareholder Seller that is a member of the board of directors (the ) of any of the Companys Subsidiary that is a company incorporated under the laws of the Kyrgyz Republic (the ), from any such Kyrgyz Board substantially in the form of ;
Kyrgyz Board
Kyrgyz Subsidiary
Annex
C, Part 4
(x)
 
a resignation effective as of the Closing from each Shareholder Seller that is a member of the board of directors (the ) of any of the Companys Subsidiary that is a company incorporated under the laws of Ukraine (the  ), from any such Ukrainian Board substantially in the form of; and
Ukrainian Board
Ukrainian
Subsidiary
 
Annex C, Part
5
 
 
9
 
(xi)
 
a written confirmation (accompanied with relevant evidence) to Buyer from each Shareholder Seller that holds any position(s) in management bodies of the Company or any Subsidiaries of the Company (the ), that such Shareholder Seller has been removed from any such Management Position.
Management Position
(c)
 
If any Seller Shares of any Seller are held through any Russian Depositary, then at Closing, such Seller and Buyer shall do or procure the following (in the stated sequential order):
(i)
 
such Seller shall deliver to the relevant Russian Depositary a duly executed written settlement instruction ( ) instructing it to transfer such Seller Shares to Buyers personal account in the Shareholders Register;
/
(ii)
 
Buyer in its capacity as pledgee of the relevant Buyer Encumbrances, if applicable, shall deliver to the Russian Depositary its consent for the transfer of such Seller Shares to Buyer;
(iii)
 
such Seller shall provide Buyer with report on executed instruction for transactions / report of transaction settlement ( ) duly issued by the relevant RussianDepositary upon the crediting of such Seller Shares sold by such Seller from its account with such Russian Depositary to Buyers personal account in the Shareholders Register; and
    
 /    & #1072;
 
(iv)
 
such Seller shall provide Buyer with original extract from the depo account / statement of holding for safekeeping account ( ) of such Seller evidencing the transfer of such SellerShares from such Sellers account to Buyers personal account in the Shareholders Register.
   
 /    
 
(d)
 
If any Seller Shares of any Seller are held through any Other Depositary, then at Closing, such Seller and Buyer shall do or procure the following (in the stated sequential order):
(i)
 
such Seller shall deliver to the relevant Other Depositary a duly executed written settlement instruction instructing it to transfer such Seller Shares to an account designated by Buyer pursuant to Section 2.02(a)(iv);
(ii)
 
Buyer in its capacity as pledgee of the relevant Buyer Encumbrances, if applicable, shall deliver to the relevant Other Depositary its consent for the transfer of such Seller Shares to Buyer;
(iii)
 
such Seller shall provide Buyer with original notifications on operation duly issued by the relevant Other Depositary upon the crediting of such Seller Shares sold by such Seller from its account with such Other Depositary to Buyers applicable personal account; and
 
10
 
 
(iv)
 
such Seller shall provide Buyer with original extract from the depo account of such Seller evidencing the transfer of such Seller Shares from such Sellers account to Buyers relevant personal account.
(e)
 
If any Seller Shares of any Seller are held directly in the Shareholders Register, then at Closing, such Seller and Buyer shall do or procure the following (in the stated sequential order):
(i)  
such Seller shall deliver to the Registrar a duly executed transfer order
( ) instructing it to transfer such Seller Shares to Buyer;
(ii)
 
Buyer in its capacity as pledgee of the relevant Buyer Encumbrances, if applicable, shall deliver to the Registrar its consent for the transfer of such Seller Shares to Buyer; and
(iii)  
such Seller shall provide Buyer with original notification on operation
of such Seller Shares sold by such Seller from its account in the Shareholders Register to Buyers account in the Shareholders Register as described in Section 2.02(e)(i).
(   ) duly issued by the Registrar upon the crediting
 
(f) Further to Sections 2.02(a) through (e), in order to ensure that each Sellers Seller Shares will be transferred on the Closing Date and that the Consideration will be paid on the Closing Date in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each party shall give the necessary instructions in due time and each Seller and Buyer shall take all such further steps as may be necessary to (i) transfer such Sellers Seller Shares to Buyer and (ii) transfer the applicable portion of the Consideration to such Seller respectively at the Closing. For the avoidance of doubt, Closing shall not occur and complete until each Seller shall have received its full portion of the Consideration and Buyer shall have received all Seller Shares, in each case, pursuant to Section 2.01.
ARTICLE 3
W S
ARRANTIES OF
ELLERS
Except (i) as fairly disclosed in the Seller Disclosure Letter, the Iakobachvili Disclosure Letter, the Plastinin Disclosure Letter or the Disclosed Documents or (ii) as disclosed in the Company SEC Documents filed prior to the date hereof, (A) each Shareholder Seller, severally and not jointly, warrants to Buyer solely as set forth in the Title Warranties, Section 3.12(a) and Section 3.17 and (B) each Designated Seller, severally and not jointly, warrants to Buyer as set forth in the Title Warranties and the Closing Warranties, in each case, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date that:
Section 3.01. . Such Seller has the right, power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute, deliver and exercise its rights, and perform its obligations, under this Agreement and each other Specified Agreement to which it is party at or before Closing. Such Sellers obligations under this Agreement and each other Specified
Capacity and Authority
 
11
 
 
Agreement to which it is party at or before Closing are, or when the relevant document is executed will be, valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 3.02. . If such Seller is not an individual, such Seller is a company duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of formation.
Existence and Power
Section 3.03. . The execution, delivery and performance by such Seller of this Agreement and other Specified Agreements to which such Seller is party and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not (i) violate the organizational documents of such Seller or, as far as each Seller is aware, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) assuming compliance with the matters referred to in Section 3.06, violate any Applicable Law, (iii) require any consent or other action by any Person under, constitute a default or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default under, or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any right or obligation of the Company or any of its S ubsidiaries or to a loss of any benefit to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is entitled under any provision of any agreement or other instrument binding upon, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or (iv) result in the creation or imposition of any Encumbrance on such Seller Shares (other than the Buyer Encumbrances) or any asset of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Non-contravention
Section 3.04
. Capitalization.
(a)
 
The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 44,000,000 ordinary shares. There are 44,000,000 issued Shares of the Company (including Shares held by any Subsidiary of the Company).
(b)
 
All outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable. Except as set forth in Section 3.04(a), there are no outstanding (i) shares of capital stock or voting securities of the Company, (ii) securities of the Company convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock or voting securities of the Company or (iii) options or other rights to acquire from the Company, or other obligation of the Company to issue, or pay an amount determined by reference to the volume of, any capital stock, voting securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock or voting securities of the Company (the items in Sections 3.04(b)(i), (ii ) and (iii) being referred to collectively as the ). There are no outstanding obligations of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any Company Securities.
Company Securities
Section 3.05 (a) Such Seller is the record holder and beneficial owner of its respective Seller Shares, free and clear of any Encumbrance and any other limitation or restriction (including any restriction on the right to vote, sell or otherwise dispose of such Seller Shares), and will transfer and deliver to Buyer at Closing valid title to such Seller Shares free and clear of any Encumbrance and any such limitation or restriction.
. Ownership of Shares.
 
12
 
in each case, of the Companys allotted and issued share capital.
Section 3.06 As far as each Designated Seller is aware, the execution, delivery and performance by such Seller of this Agreement and other Specified Agreements to which it is party require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority in the Russian Federation or Ukraine other than (i) compliance with any applicable requirements for the Russian Regulatory Approvals, (ii) compliance with any applicable requirements of the Anti Monopoly Committee of Ukraine, (iii) compliance with any applicable requirements of the 1934 Act and (iv) compliance with any applicable requirements of Russian Securities Laws. The Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, have not, in any fiscal year, generated US$ 63,400,000 or more in revenues from sales in or into the United States, and do not have assets located in the United States that have a fair market value in excess of
. Governmental Authorization.
US$ 63,400,000.
Section 3.07. . The Company is a company duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of formation.
Existence and Power
Section 3.08. .
Subsidiaries
(a) Each Subsidiary of the Company is a company duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of formation. All Subsidiaries of the Company
 
13
 
 
and their respective jurisdictions of incorporation and capitalization structures are identified in Section 3.08 of the Seller Disclosure Letter.
(b) All of the outstanding capital stock or other voting securities of each Subsidiary is owned by the Company, directly or indirectly, free and clear of any Encumbrance and free of any other limitation or restriction (including any restriction on the right to vote, sell or otherwise dispose of such capital stock or other voting securities). There are no outstanding (i) securities of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock or voting securities of any Subsidiary or (ii) options or other rights to acquire from the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, or other obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company to issue, any capital stock, voting securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock or voting securities of any Subsidiary of t he Company (the items in Sections 3.08(b)(i) and 3.08(b)(ii) being referred to collectively as the  ). There are no outstanding obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary of theCompany to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any outstanding Subsidiary Securities.
Subsidiary
Securities
 
Section 3.09. .
Financial Statements and Tax Returns
(a)
 
The audited consolidated financial statements and unaudited consolidated interim financial statements of the Company included or incorporated by reference in the Company SEC Documents fairly present in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP applied on a consistent basis (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto), the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the periods then ended (subject to normal year-end audit adjustments in the case of any unaudited interim financial statements).
(b)
 
As far as each Designated Seller is aware, (i) all material tax returns of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries have been filed when due in accordance with Applicable Law, (ii) such returns were true and complete in all material respects, (iii) all taxes shown as due and payable on such returns have been timely paid, or withheld and remitted, to the appropriate Governmental Authority in the Russian Federation or Ukraine, and (iv) the charges, accruals and reserves for taxes reflected on the books of the Company and its Subsidiaries are adequate to cover their respective tax liabilities accruing through the Balance Sheet Date.
Section 3.10. . As far as each Designated Seller is aware, since the Balance Sheet Date:
Absence of Certain Changes
(a)
 
the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries has been operated in the usual way in all material respects so as to maintain it as a going concern;
(b)
 
the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries has been conducted in the ordinary course consistent with past practice and there has not been any event, occurrence, development or state of circumstances or facts that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect;
 
 
14
 
(c)
 
neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has created, allotted, issued, acquired, repaid or redeemed share capital or made an agreement or arrangement or undertaken an obligation to do any of those things; and
(d)
 
neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has declared, paid or made a dividend or distribution.
Section 3.11. . Except where the failure of the following to be true would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect:
Assets
(a)
 
Each asset or Property included in the financial statements of the Company referenced in Section 3.09 or acquired by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries since the Balance Sheet Date with a book value of more than US$ 10,000,000 (other than assets disposed of in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice) is:
(i)
 
legally and beneficially owned solely by the Company or Subsidiary free from any Encumbrance (other than retention of title claims or liens arising in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice); and
(ii)
 
where capable of possession, in the possession or under the control of the Company or such Subsidiary.
(b)
 
The Company or a Subsidiary of the Company owns all assets necessary for the effective operation of the businesses of the Company and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course and in all material respects in the same manner as operated at the date of this Agreement and as far as each Designated Seller is aware there are no material assets currently used in the businesses of the Company and its Subsidiaries that the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company will not own or have a lawful right to use at Closing.
(c)
 
There are no civil, criminal, arbitration, administrative or other proceedings concerning any Property (a ) and as far as each Designated Seller is aware neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has received written notice served in accordance with Applicable Law of any pending Property Proceedings.
Property Proceeding
(d)  
As far as each Designated Seller is aware, there is no:
(i)
 
outstanding notice, judgment, order, decree, arbitral award or decision of a court, tribunal, arbitrator or Governmental Authority in the Russian Federation or Ukraine affecting any Property served on the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in accordance with procedures prescribed by Applicable Law; or
(ii)
 
resolution or proposal for compulsory acquisition of any Property by a local or other authority served on the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in accordance with Applicable Law.
 
15
 
Section 3.12. . (a) There are no agreements (whether written or oral) between such Seller (excluding any Seller that is a Subsidiary of the Company) or any of its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, on the other hand.
Certain Contracts
(b) As far as each Designated Seller is aware, none of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is party to any agreement (whether written or oral) that purports to bind Buyer Guarantor or any its Subsidiaries (as they are immediately prior to Closing) following consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 3.13. . As far as each Designated Seller is aware,
Benefits and Labor Relations
(a) the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not entitle any current or former employee or consultant of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to any material special payment, vesting, funding or similar rights relating to compensation, incentives or benefits other than as provided under the employment agreement between the Company and Tony Maher, the change-in-control transaction agreements and stock appreciation right agreements listed in Section 3.13(a) of the Seller Disclosure Letter, copies of which have been provided to Buyer prior to the date hereof.
(b) (i) There are no labor (including collective labor agreements) or works council agreements in effect, nor any disputes as to labor representation, with respect to any current or former employees or consultants of the Company or its Subsidiaries, and (ii) there are no current or threatened labor disputes relating to employees or consultants of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, in each case as will have or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.14. . As far as each Designated Seller is
Litigation and Compliance with Law
aware:
(a)
 
None of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries have received written notice of any civil, criminal, arbitration, administrative or other proceeding or inquiry, including any tax audit or investigation against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or have commenced any civil, criminal, arbitration, administrative or other proceeding or inquiry (other than in relation to the collection of debts arising in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries), including any tax audit, or investigation, in each case as will have or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(b)
 
no civil, criminal, arbitration, administrative or other proceeding or inquiry, including any tax audit or investigation, is pending against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than in relation to the collection of debts arising in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice) in each case as will have or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(c)
 
the Company and each of its Subsidiaries is in compliance, in all material respects, with Applicable Law; and
 
16
 
(d) none of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their officers, directors, employees, consultants or other agents or advisors have offered, promised or given, and, no Person has otherwise offered, promised or given on behalf of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, anything of value to any officer or employee of: (i) any Governmental Authority, (ii) any entity controlled by a Governmental Authority, or (iii) any public international organization, or to any person acting in an official capacity for or on behalf of any of the foregoing or to any political party or official thereof, or to any candidate for political office (all of the foregoing being collectively referred to as  ) or to any other Person while knowing, or having reason to know, that all or a portion of such money or thing of value may be offered, given or promised, directly or indirectly, to any Government Official for the purpose of: (x) influencing any action or decision of such Government Official in his or her official capacity, including a decision to fail to perform his or her official function; or (y) securing any improper advantage or (z) inducing such Government Official to use his or her influence with any Governmental Authority to affect or influence any act or decision of such Governmental Authority in order to assist the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any other Person in obtaining or retaining business. There have been no false or fictitious entries made in the books or records of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries relating to any illegal payment or secret or unrecorded fund and neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries have not established or maintained a secret or unrecorded fund.
Government Officials
Section 3.15.
. SEC Filings and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
(a)
 
The Company has filed with or furnished to the SEC all reports, schedules, forms, statements, prospectuses, registration statements and other documents required to be filed or furnished by the Company since January 1, 2007 (collectively, together with any exhibits and schedules thereto and other information incorporated therein, the ).
Company SEC Documents
(b)
 
As of its filing date (and as of the date of any amendment), each Company SEC Document complied as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1934 Act, as the case may be.
(c)
 
As far as each Designated Seller is aware, as of its filing date (or, if amended or superseded by a filing prior to the date hereof, on the date of such filing), each Company SEC Document filed pursuant to the 1934 Act did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(d)
 
As far as each Designated Seller is aware, each Company SEC Document that is a registration statement, as amended or supplemented, if applicable, filed pursuant to the 1933 Act, as of the date such registration statement or amendment became effective, did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
 
17
 
 
(e) As far as each Designated Seller is aware, since January 1, 2007, the Company has complied in all material respects with the applicable listing and corporate governance rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange.
Section 3.16 The legal and other advisory costs, fees and expenses that are reasonably expected to be incurred by the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Specified Agreements shall not exceed
. Company Expenses.
US$ 20,000,000.
Section 3.17. . Except for JP Morgan Chase & Co., whose fees have been disclosed to Buyer and whose engagement agreement with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries does not impose any obligations binding on the Company, Buyer or any of their respective Subsidiaries following Closing (other than customary indemnification obligations and the obligation to pay such disclosed fees), there is no investment banker, broker, finder or other intermediary that has been retained by or is authorized to act on behalf of such Seller, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries who is entitled to any fee or commission from Buyer, the Company or any of their respective Affiliates in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Finders Fees
For the avoidance of doubt, (a) no Shareholder Seller is making any warranty to Buyer other than as set forth in the Title Warranties, Section 3.12(a) and Section 3.17 and (b) the Closing Warranties are provided solely and exclusively for the purposes of the condition to Closing set forth at Section 7.01(c), and any breach, inaccuracy or incorrectness of any Closing Warranty shall not result in any liability, duty or obligation of any kind of any Seller to Buyer or to any other Person under any circumstances.
ARTICLE 4
W B
ARRANTIES OF
UYER
Buyer warrants to each Seller as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date that:
Section 4.01. Buyer has the right, power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute, deliver and exercise its rights, and perform its obligations, under this Agreement and each other Specified Agreement to which it is party at or before Closing. Buyers obligations under this Agreement and each other Specified Agreement to which it is party at or before Closing are, or when the relevant document is executed will be, valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
. Capacity and Authority
Section 4.02. . Buyer is a company duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of formation.
Existence and Power
Section 4.03. The execution, delivery and performance by Buyer of this Agreement and other Specified Agreements to which it is party and the consummation by Buyer of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not (i) violate the organizational documents of Buyer or (ii) assuming compliance with the matters referred to in Section 4.04,
. Non-contravention
 
18
 
 
violate any Applicable Law. Buyers obligations under this Agreement and each other Specified Agreement to which it is party at or before Closing are, or when the relevant document is executed will be, valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 4.04. . The execution, delivery and performance by Buyer of this Agreement and other Specified Agreements to which it is party require no material action by or in respect of, or material filing with, any Governmental Authority in the Russian Federation or Ukraine other than (i) compliance with any applicable requirements for Russian Regulatory Approvals, (ii) compliance with any applicable requirements of the Anti Monopoly Committee of Ukraine, (iii) compliance with any applicable requirements of the 1934 Act and (iv) compliance with any applicable requirements of Russian Securities Laws.
Governmental Authorization
Section 4.05 Buyer has, or will have prior to Closing, sufficient cash, available lines of credit or other sources of immediately available funds to enable it to make payment of the aggregate Consideration and any other amounts to be paid by it hereunder.
. Financing.
ARTICLE 5
C S
OVENANTS OF
ELLERS
Each Seller agrees that:
Section 5.01. From the date hereof until the Closing Date, no Seller shall vote for any resolution in any general meeting of shareholders the direct and foreseeable effect of which would be (if such resolution were carried) to cause (i) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to conduct their businesses otherwise than in the ordinary course, (ii) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to change materially their present business organization, (iii) the Company to terminate (or fail to maintain) a material license, permit, approval or authorization, (iv) the Company to remove any director of the Board or (v) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to terminate contracts with customers, lenders, suppliers in each case material to the Company, or (vi) otherwise th e Company or any Subsidiary to:
. Conduct of the Company
(a)
 
amend its charter, bylaws or other similar organizational documents (whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise);
(b)
 
create, allot, issue, acquire, repay or redeem any share capital or grant any new change-in-control-related compensation, benefits or rights to any current or former employee or consultant of the Company or agree, arrange or undertake to do any of those things or acquire or agree to acquire, an interest in a corporate body or merge or consolidate with a corporate body or any other person, enter into any demerger transaction or participate in any other type of corporate reconstruction;
(c)  
declare, pay or make a dividend or distribution;
(d)
 
other than as set out at Schedule 5.01(vi)(d), acquire or dispose of (by merger, consolidation, acquisition of stock or assets, joint venture or otherwise), directly or indirectly,
 
19
 
any revenues, assets (other than sale of products in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), business or undertakings in the individual in excess of US$ 10,000,000;
(e)
 
enter into any agreements (whether written or oral) (i) between any Seller (other than any Seller that is a Subsidiary of the Company) or any of its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, or (ii) that would purport to bind Buyer Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries (as they are immediately before Closing) following consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; or
(f)  
agree, resolve or commit to do any of the foregoing.
Section 5.02. (a) From the date of filing the application for FAS Approval until the Closing Date and in order to facilitate the business planning and post-acquisition integration plans of Buyer, each Seller shall, subject to Applicable Law furnish, and shall cause the Company and each of its Subsidiaries to furnish, to Buyer and its representatives such financial and operating data as set out in Schedule 5.02 and, subject to prior consent of the general director of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), other information relating to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as such Persons may reasonably request. No investigation by Buyer or other information received by Buyer, in each case, between the date hereof and the Closing Date, shall operate as a waiver or otherwise affect any warranty or agreement given or made by any Seller hereunder.
. Access to Information; Confidentiality
(b) After Closing, each Seller and its Affiliates shall hold, and shall use its best efforts to cause their respective officers, directors, employees, accountants, counsel, consultants, advisors and agents to hold, in confidence, unless compelled to disclose by judicial or administrative process or by other requirements of law, all confidential documents and information concerning the Company and its Subsidiaries, except to the extent that such information can be shown to have been (i) previously known on a non-confidential basis by such Seller, (ii) in the public domain through no fault of such Seller or its Affiliates or (iii) later lawfully acquired by such Seller from sources other than those related to its prior ownership interest in the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Section 5.03. . Subject to fulfillment by Buyer of its obligations under Section 6.02(a), each Seller shall, promptly following such Seller becoming aware of such fact or circumstance, notify Buyer of:
Notices of Certain Events
(a)
 
any notice or other communication from any Person to such Seller or the Company or any of its Subsidiaries alleging that the consent of such Person is or may be required in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
(b)
 
any actions, suits, claims, investigations, proceedings or inquiry, including any tax audit or investigation, commenced or, to its knowledge threatened against, relating to or involving or otherwise affecting such Seller or the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that, if pending on the date hereof, would have been required to have been disclosed pursuant to Section
3.14  
or that relate to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
 
20
 
(c)
 
any inaccuracy of any warranty contained in this Agreement made by such Seller of which such Seller shall have actual knowledge that a reasonable Person would believe could be expected to cause the condition set forth in Section 7.01(c) not to be satisfied; and
(d)
 
any failure of such Seller to comply with or satisfy any material covenant, condition or agreement to be complied with or satisfied by it hereunder of which such Seller shall have actual knowledge;
that the delivery of any notice pursuant to this Section 5.03 shall not limit orotherwise affect the remedies available hereunder to the party receiving that notice.
provided, however,
 
Section 5.04. . To the extent any Sellers Seller Shares are subject to any encumbrance, such Seller shall take all steps necessary to secure the release of any Encumbrance (other than any Buyer Encumbrances) (the ) on such Sellers Seller Shares prior to Closing.
Release of Encumbrances
Released Encumbrances
Section 5.05. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, until the earlier to occur of (i) Closing, or (ii) the date of termination of this Agreement pursuant
Exclusivity.
to Section 8.01 below, no Seller will, directly or indirectly, discuss, negotiate with respect to or solicit any proposal to sell, assign, convey, dispose of, exchange or otherwise transfer any of its Shares or any rights or interest therein (including by way of issuing any securities convertible or exercisable into or exchangeable for, or any options, warrants or other rights to acquire such Share or any interests therein or entering into any derivative, swap or similar contract or instrument with respect thereto or entering into any borrowing arrangement secured by any such Shares) to any Person other than Buyer or any of its Affiliates, in each case whether voluntary, involuntary or by operation of law, or agree or commit to do any of the foregoing.
(b)
 
If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b) solely as a result of the non-satisfaction of the condition set forth at Section 7.01(b), each Seller shall not, and shall cause each Seller that is a Subsidiary of the Company not to, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, convey, dispose of, exchange or otherwise transfer any of its Shares or any rights or interest therein (including by way of issuing any securities convertible or exercisable into or exchangeable for, or any options, warrants or other rights to acquire such Share or any interests therein or entering into any derivative, swap or similar contract or instrument with respect thereto or entering into any borrowing arrangement secured by any such Shares) to a Restricted Buyer or any of its Affiliates, in each case, whether voluntary, involuntary or by operation of law, or agree or commit to do any of the foregoing (any of the aforementioned actions being a ) during the period of six months following such termination.
Prohibited Transfer
(c)
 
If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b) solely as a result of (a) the material breach by any Seller of its obligations under Section 2.02 or (b) non-satisfaction of Sections 7.01(d), (e), or (g) of this Agreement, each Seller shall not, and shall cause each Seller that is a Subsidiary of the Company not to, directly or indirectly, effect a Prohibited Transfer in each case, to a Restricted Buyer or any of its Affiliates, during the period of 15 months following such termination.
 
21
 
(d)
 
For the avoidance of doubt, subject solely and strictly to the terms thereof, except as set forth in Sections 5.05(a), (b) or (c) above, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way limit, prevent or restrict any Seller from selling, transferring, disposing of or dealing in its Shares (in whole or part) or any interest therein (including creating any Encumbrance over Shares) at any time following termination of this Agreement.
(e)
 
For the avoidance of doubt, Buyer covenants and undertakes to Sellers not to bring or assert any claim under Sections 5.05(a), (b) or (c) above where Closing did not occur due to the non-satisfaction of Section 7.01(f) of this Agreement.
Section 5.06 Each Seller hereby appoints Mr. Maher as his, her or its true and lawful agent and attorney-in-fact to act on its, his or her behalf for all purposes hereunder, including any matter that requires the consent of any or all Sellers. The power of attorney granted hereby is coupled with an interest and shall (i) survive and not be affected by the subsequent death, incapacity, disability, or bankruptcy of the Seller granting the same and (ii) extend to such Sellers successors, permitted assigns and legal representatives.
. Sellers Agent.
Section 5.07. . Prior to the Closing Date, each Seller shall make reasonable efforts to cause the Company and its Subsidiaries to cause each of Wimm-Bill-Dann Finance Co. Ltd. and Wimm Bill Dann Finance Cyprus Ltd. to properly file an election to be treated as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, such that on the Closing Date all assets and liabilities of such entities are treated for such purposes as assets and liabilities of the Company. Sellers and Buyer shall cooperate in the preparation and the filing of such election. Prior to filing such election, Seller shall provide Buyer with an opportunity to comment on the draft election form. Promptly after the filing of such election, Buyer shall provide Seller with a copy of the executed election for m, along with evidence of delivery of such election form to the appropriate address by certified mail.
Tax Election
Section 5.08 Once the Governmental Commission Approval has been received, each Seller shall take all necessary steps (insofar as it is able) to convene an extraordinary general shareholders meeting of the Company with an agenda to re-elect the members of the Board. Such shareholders meeting of the Company shall take place on the nearest possible date after the receipt of the Governmental Commission Approval subject to compliance with Applicable Law of the Russian Federation and the constitutional documents of the Company. Each Seller shall procure (insofar as it is able) that the candidates to the Board named in any notice by Buyer to each Seller at least 35 calendar days prior to the date of such shareholders meeting shall be included in the official list of candidates proposed to be elected at such shareholders meeting.
. Shareholders Meeting of the Company; Companys Board Matters.
Section 5.09. Once the Governmental Commission Approval has been received, each Seller shall take all necessary steps (insofar as it is able) to convene an extraordinary general shareholders meeting of each of the Russian Subsidiary of the Company which is a joint-stock company (the ) with an agenda to re-elect the members of the relevant Russian JSC board of directors. Such shareholders meetings of the Russian JSCs shall take place on the nearest possible date after the receipt of the
Shareholders Meetings of the Russian JSCs.
Russian JSC
 
22
 
Governmental Commission Approval subject to compliance with Applicable Law of the Russian Federation and the constitutional documents of the relevant Russian JSCs. Each Seller shall procure (insofar as it is able) that the candidates to the board of directors of each Russian JSC named in the relevant notice by Buyer to each Seller at least 35 calendar days prior to the date of the relevant shareholders meeting shall be included in the official list of candidates proposed to be elected at such shareholders meeting.
Section 5.10 Upon expiry of 45 calendar days after the receipt of the Governmental Commission Approval (the ), each Seller shall take all necessary steps (insofar as it is able) to convene an extraordinary general participants meeting of each of the Russian Subsidiary of the Company which is a limited liability company (the ) with an agenda to re-elect the members of the relevant Russian LLCs board of directors. Such participants meetings of the Russian LLCs shall take place on the nearest possible date after the LLC Convention Date subject to compliance with Applicable Law of the Russian Federation and the constitutional documents of the relevant Russian LLCs. Each Seller shall procure (insofar as it is able) that the candidates to the board of directors of each Russian LLC named in the relevant notice by Buyer to each Seller at least 35 calendar days prior to the date of such participants meeting shall be included in the official list of candidates proposed to be elected at such participants meeting.
. Shareholders Meetings of the Russian LLCs.
LLC Convention Date
Russian LLC
Section 5.11. . Upon expiry of 30 calendar days after the receipt of the Governmental Commission Approval (the  ), each Seller shall take all necessary steps (insofar as it is able) to convene anextraordinary general shareholders meeting of each Ukrainian Subsidiary of the Company (including OJSC Wimm-Bill -Dann Ukraine) with an agenda to re-elect the members of its board of directors (the ). Such Ukrainian GSM(s) shall take plac e on the nearest possible date after the Ukrainian Convention Date subject to compliance with Applicable Law of Ukraine and the constitutional documents of the relevant Ukrainian Subsidiary(s). Each Seller shall procure (insofar as it is able) that the candidates to the board of directors of the relevant Ukrainian Subsidiary named in the relevant notice by Buyer to each Seller at least 10 calendar days prior to the date of the relevant Ukrainian GSM shall be included in the official list of candidates proposed to be elected at such Ukrainian GSM.
Shareholders Meeting(s) of Ukrainian Subsidiary(s)
Ukrainian
Convention Date
 
Ukrainian GSM
Section 5.12. . Once the Governmental Commission Approval has been received, each Seller shall take all necessary steps (insofar as it is able) to convene an extraordinary general shareholders meeting of each of the Kyrgyz Subsidiary with an agenda to re-elect the members of the relevant Kyrgyz Subsidiary board of directors. Such shareholders meetings of the Kyrgyz Subsidiaries shall take place on Closing or (if not possible) on the 75th calendar day after the Governmental Commission Approval has been received subject to compliance with Applicable Law of the Kyrgyz Republic and the constitutional documents of the relevant Kyrgyz Subsidiary. Each Seller shall procure (insofar as it is able) that the candidates to each of the Kyrgyz Subsidiary board of directors named in the relevant notice by Buyer to each Seller at least 35 calendar days (unless longer period is not required under the Applicable Law of the Kyrgyz Republic and the constitutional documents of
Shareholders Meeting of Kyrgyz Subsidiary(s)
 
23
 
the relevant Kyrgyz Subsidiary) prior to the date of the relevant shareholders meeting shall be included in the official list of candidates proposed to be elected at such shareholders meeting.
Section 5.13. . Each Seller covenants and undertakes to Buyer that it shall take all such necessary action and execute and deliver any instruments and documents as may, at any time, be necessary under Applicable Law or otherwise reasonably requested by Buyer to perfect or duly record Buyers security interest in the Seller Shares (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any American Depositary Receipts or Global Depositary Receipts with respect to such Seller Shares) or related collateral pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Seller that has entered into a pledge agreement with respect to any ordinary shares held by such Seller shall promptly comply with the provisions of clause 6.1 of s uch pledge agreement and shall provide relevant evidence of such compliance to Buyer.
Perfection of Security Interest
 
ARTICLE 6
C B S
OVENANTS OF
UYER AND
ELLERS
Section 6.01. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Buyer and each Seller will use their reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary or desirable under Applicable Law to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
. Reasonable Efforts; Further Assurances
(b)
 
In connection with this Section 6.01, the parties agree to (i) cooperate in all respects with each other in connection with any filing or submission and in connection with any investigation or other inquiry, including any proceeding initiated by a private party, (ii) promptly inform each other party of any communication received by such party from, or given by such party to, the FAS, the Governmental Commission or any other Governmental Authority in the Russian Federation and of any material communication received or given in connection with any proceeding by a private party, in each case regarding any of the transactions contemplated hereby and (iii) permit the other party to review any communication given by it to, and consult with each other in advance of any meeting or conference with, the FAS, the Governmental Commission or any such other Governmental Authority in the Russian Federation or, in connection with any proceeding by a private party, with any other Person, and to the extent appropriate or permitted by the FAS, the Governmental Commission or such other applicable Governmental Authority in the Russian Federation or other Person, give the other party the opportunity to attend and participate in such meetings and conferences.
(c)
 
Each Seller and Buyer shall cooperate and consult with one another in determining whether any action by or in respect of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority is required, or any actions, consents, approvals or waivers are required to be obtained from parties to any material contracts, in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Specified Agreements and in taking such actions or making any such filings, furnishing
 
24
 
information required in connection therewith and seeking to obtain any such actions, consents, approvals or waivers.
Section 6.02 Further to Section 6.01, Buyer undertakes to Sellers that it shall:
. Buyer Obligations Concerning the FAS Approval.
(a)
 
make an official application and submission to FAS for the FAS Approval as soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement and, in any case, not later than seven Business Days following the date hereof;
(b)  
keep Sellers promptly informed as to the progress towards receipt of the FAS
Approval;
(c)
 
disclose in writing to Sellers promptly upon becoming aware of any fact that is reasonably likely to prevent receipt of the FAS Approval; and
(d)
 
deliver to Sellers a notarized copy of the FAS Approval as soon as practicable after the FAS Approval is obtained and in any event within two Business Days thereafter.
Section 6.03 The parties agree to consult with each other before issuing any press release or making any public statement with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby and, except where such consultation is not practicable in relation to any press releases and public statements the making of which is required by Applicable Law or any listing agreement with any national securities exchange, will not issue any such press release or make any such public statement prior to such consultation. Each Seller agrees to cause the Company and each of its Subsidiaries to comply with this Section 6.03 as if it were a party to this Agreement.
. Public Announcements.
Section 6.04. Notwithstanding the application (if relevant) of Sections 5.05(b) or (c), Buyer covenants and undertakes to each Seller that it shall take all such necessary action and execute and deliver any instruments and documents as may, at any time, be necessary under Applicable Law or otherwise reasonably requested by such Seller to ensure release of all of its Seller Shares (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any American Depositary Receipts or Global Depositary Receipts with respect to such Seller Shares) pledged pursuant to any Pledge Agreement immediately upon the termination of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever.
Release of Pledges.
Section 6.05. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, including more specifically Section 5.05, in the event that Mr. Plastinin is required or obliged at any time prior to Closing to repay any amounts due under or pursuant to any loan agreement to which Mr. Plastinin is party as of the date hereof, Mr. Plastinin shall provide written notice to Buyer of such requirement or obligation (the  ) which shall include the number of Shares Mr. Plastinin wishes to sell to meet such
Buyers Option to Purchase Certain Release Shares.
Release
Notice
 
25
 
requirement or obligation, not to exceed 240,000 Shares (the ). Buyer, in its sole and absolute discretion, may elect within five Business Days following receipt of the Release Notice to purchase and pay for the Released Shares from Mr. Plastinin at a price per Released Share equal to the Purchase Price Per Share. If Buyer does not purchase and pay for all of the Released Shares within five Business Days of receipt of the Release Notice, Mr. Plastinin shall be free to sell any Released Shares which Buyer has not purchased and paid for to any third party through a private or public sale.
Released Shares
Section 6.06. Buyer covenants and undertakes that in the event this Agreement is terminated, (a) it will not use or exploit, whether directly or indirectly, any confidential information supplied to Buyer under Section 5.02(a) for its own commercial advantage or benefit and (b) it will return to Sellers all such confidential information supplied to it concerning the Company, including all copies, notes and memoranda made by Buyer using such confidential information.
. Confidentiality
ARTICLE 7
C C
ONDITIONS TO
LOSING
Section 7.01 The obligation of Buyer to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement is subject to the satisfaction, or, to the extent permissible by Applicable Law, waiver by Buyer, of the following conditions:
. Conditions to the Obligations of Buyer.
(a)  
no provision of any Applicable Law shall prohibit the consummation of Closing;
(b)
 
the Russian Regulatory Approvals shall have been obtained and the Russian Regulatory Approvals shall be in full force and effect as at Closing;
(c)
 
the (i) Title Warranties and (ii) the Closing Warranties shall be true in all respects at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of such date and in the case of (ii) only, with such exceptions (A) in the individual or with respect to a series of related inaccuracies involving loss or liability of less than US$ 5,000,000, and (B) as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect;
(d)
 
each Seller shall have complied in all material respects with its, his or her obligations under Sections 5.01, 5.04, 5.05 and 5.07 required to be performed by it on or prior to the Closing Date;
(e)  
none of the Company or its Subsidiaries shall have taken any action described
in Section 5.01(a) through (f);
(f)
 
there shall have been no event, occurrence, development or state of circumstances or facts that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and
(g)  
the Closing shall have occurred with respect to all Seller Shares.
 
26
 
 
Section 7.02. . The obligation of each Seller to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement is subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permissible by Applicable Law, waiver by such Seller of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of Each Seller
(a)
 
Buyer shall have performed in all material respects all of its obligations hereunder required to be performed by it on or prior to the Closing Date; and
(b)
 
the representations and warranties of Buyer contained in this Agreement and in any certificate or other writing delivered by Buyer pursuant hereto shall be true at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of such date except where the failure of any such representation or warranty to be true has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on Buyers ability to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8
T
ERMINATION
Section 8.01. . This Agreement shall terminate prior to Closing solely in the following specific circumstances:
Grounds for Termination
(a)  
by mutual written agreement of each Seller and Buyer;
(b)
 
automatically if Closing shall not have been consummated on or before July 1, 2011 (the ); that such termination shall not occur if any party shall be in breach of any provision of this Agreement and such breach results in the failure of Closing to be consummated by such time unless, in the case of such breach by any Seller, Buyer elects to terminate this Agreement or, in the case of such breach by Buyer, any Seller elects to terminate this Agreement; and
End Date
provided
(c)
 
by any Seller or by Buyer if there shall be any Applicable Law that makes consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby illegal or otherwise prohibited or if consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby would violate any non-appealable final order, decree or judgment of any Governmental Authority in the Russian Federation or Ukraine.
The party desiring to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01(b) (if applicable) or Section 8.01(c) shall give notice of such termination to the other party.
Section 8.02. . If this Agreement is terminated as permitted by Section 8.01, such termination shall be without liability of any party (or any shareholder,
Effect of Termination
director, officer, employee, agent, consultant or representative of such party) to any other party to this Agreement; that if such termination shall result from the (i) willful failure of any party to fulfill a condition to the performance of the obligations of the other party or (ii) willful failure to perform a covenant of this Agreement, the defaulting party shall be fully liable for any and all damage, loss, liability, and expense incurred or suffered by t he other party as a result of
provided
 
27
 
such failure or breach. The provisions of Sections 5.05(b) and (c) (if applicable), this Section 8.02 and Article 9 shall survive any termination hereof pursuant to Section 8.01.
ARTICLE 9
M
ISCELLANEOUS
Section 9.01. All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and shall be given,
. Notices
if to Buyer or Buyer Guarantor, to:
c/o PepsiCo, Inc.
700 Anderson Hill Road
Purchase, NY 10577
Attention:  Larry D. Thompson
Facsimile No.: (914) 253-2070
 
with copies to:
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP
450 Lexington Avenue
New York, New York 10017
Attention:  George R. Bason, Jr.
               
Peter R. Douglas
Facsimile No.: (212) 701-5800
Linklaters CIS
Paveletskaya Square, 2, bld. 2
Moscow, Russian Federation 115054
Attention:  John Goodwin
              
Denis Uvarov
Facsimile No.: +7 495 797 9798
if to any Seller, to the address set forth opposite the name of such Seller in Schedule 9.01, or such other address or facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5:00 p.m. in the place of receipt and such day is a Business Day in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt.
Section 9.02. .
Warranties, Liability and Survival
(a) The Closing Warranties are provided solely and exclusively for the purposes of the condition to Closing set forth at Section 7.01(c) and no breach, inaccuracy or incorrectness of any Closing Warranty shall constitute (in whole or part) a Relevant Claim or otherwise result in
 
28
 
any liability, duty or obligation of any kind of any Seller to Buyer or to any other Person under any circumstances.
(b)  
The terms and limitations set forth in Schedule 9.02 shall apply to this Agreement.
(c)
 
Buyer covenants and undertakes to Sellers that (in the absence of fraud) Buyer has no rights against and may not make any claim against, any current or former employee, director or officer of the Company or its Subsidiaries solely in their capacity as such on whom it may have relied before agreeing to any term of, or entering into, the Specified Agreements.
(d)
 
Each Seller covenants and undertakes to Buyer that (in the absence of fraud) such Seller has no rights against and may not make any claim against, any current or former employee, director or officer of the Company or its Subsidiaries solely in their capacity as such on whom it may have relied before agreeing to any term of, or entering into, the Specified Agreements.
Section 9.03 (a) Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed, in the case of an amendment, by each party to this Agreement, or in the case of a waiver, by the party against whom the waiver is to be effective.
. Amendments and Waivers.
(b) No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
Section 9.04 Except as otherwise provided herein, all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, preparation and implementation of this Agreement shall be paid by the party incurring such cost or expense.
. Expenses.
Section 9.05 The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; that no party may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the consent of each other party hereto (except that Buyer may transfer or assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement, in whole or from time to time in part, to one or more of its Affiliates at any time ( that such transfer or assignment shall be null and void if such Affiliate ceases to be an Affiliate of Buyer Guarantor at any time prior to C losing); that no such transfer or assignment shall (A) relieve Buyer of its obligations hereunder or enlarge, alter or change any obligation of any other party hereto or due to Buyer (including, for the avoidance of doubt, Buyer Guarantors obligations pursuant
. Successors and Assigns.
provided
provided
provided
to Section 9.14) or (B) adversely affect the rights or obligations of any Seller under this Agreement (including any Sellers right to receive the Purchase Price Per Share in US$ pursuant to Section 2.01)).
Section 9.06
. Confidentiality.
 
29
 
(a)
 
Subject to Section 9.06(b) and Section 6.03, Buyer, on the one hand, and each Seller that is not a Subsidiary of the Company on the other hand, undertakes to the other Person, for itself and as agent and trustee for its Affiliates, that it shall treat as confidential, and shall not disclose, any personal information (including bank account information and similar information) received or obtained as a result of entering into or performing this Agreement which relates to such other Person, including the respective Affiliates of such other Person.
(b)  
Section 9.06(a) does not apply to disclosure of any such information:
(i)
 
which is required to be disclosed by law, by a rule of a listing authority or stock exchange to which any party is subject or submits or by a Governmental Authority with relevant powers to which any party is subject or submits, whether or not the requirement has the force of law provided that the disclosure shall, so far as is practicable, be made after consultation with the other party and after taking into account the other partys reasonable requirements as to its timing, content and manner of making or dispatch;
(ii)
 
to a professional adviser (including a provider of financing) for the purposes of advising or provision of finance in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; , that such disclosure is essential for these purposes and is on the basis that Section 9.06(a) applies to the applicable adviser;
provided, however
(iii)
 
to a director, officer or employee of Buyer or of a Seller whose function requires such person to have the relevant confidential information; or
(iv)
 
to the extent that the information has been made public by, or with the consent of, the other Person.
(c)
 
The restrictions contained in this Section 9.06 shall continue to apply after the termination of this Agreement without limit in time.
Section 9.07 This Agreement and all non-contractual relationships arising out of it shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English law, without giving effect to any choice or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of England or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than England.
. Governing Law.
Section 9.08. .
Dispute Resolution
(a)
 
All disputes hereunder shall be referred to, and finally resolved by, arbitration under the arbitration rules of the London Court of International Arbitration () (the ) which rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Section 9.08.
LCIA
LCIA Rules
(b)
 
The number of arbitrators shall be three. Buyer (on the one hand) and Sellers together (on the other hand) shall each nominate one arbitrator and the two arbitrators so nominated shall jointly select a third arbitrator as the chairman of the arbitral panel. In the event
 
30
 
that the nominated arbitrators are unable to agree, the third arbitrator will be appointed by the Court of the LCIA in accordance with the LCIA Rules.
(c)  
The seat, or legal place, of arbitration shall be London.
(d)  
The language to be used in the arbitral proceedings shall be English.
(e)
 
The parties undertake to keep confidential all awards in any arbitration, together with all materials in the proceedings created for the purpose of the arbitration and all other information or documents produced or disclosed by the parties or by witnesses in the proceedings not otherwise in the public domain, save and to the extent that disclosure may be required of a party by legal duty, to protect or pursue a legal right or to enforce or challenge an award in legal proceedings before a state court or other judicial authority.
bona fide
Section 9.09 This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by all of the other parties hereto. Until and unless each party has received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto, this Agreement shall have no effect and no party shall have any right or obligation hereunder (whether by virtue of any other oral or written agreement or other communication). No provision of this Agreement is intended to confer any rights, benefits, remedies, obligations, or liabilities her eunder upon any Person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Subject solely to any third party rights arising under or pursuant to Sections 9.02(c) and (d), the parties to this Agreement do not intend that any term of this Agreement should be enforceable, by virtue of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999, by any person who is not a party to this Agreement.
. Counterparts; Effectiveness; Third Party Beneficiaries.
Section 9.10
. Entire Agreement.
(a)
 
The Specified Agreements constitute the whole and only agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement, more particularly the sale and purchase of Seller Shares.
(b)
 
Each party acknowledges that in entering into the Specified Agreements it is not relying upon any pre-contractual statement which is not expressly set out in the Specified Agreements.
(c)
 
Except in the case of fraud, no party shall have any right of action against any other party to this Agreement arising out of or in connection with any pre-contractual statement except to the extent that it is repeated in the Specified Agreements.
(d)
 
For the purposes of this Section 9.10, pre-contractual statement means any draft, agreement, undertaking, representation, warranty, promise, assurance or arrangement of any nature whatsoever, whether or not in writing, relating to the subject matter of the Specified
 
31
 
Agreements made or given by any person at any time prior to this Agreement becoming legally binding.
Section 9.11. Except as required by law or as expressly provided in this Agreement, all payments made pursuant to this Agreement will be made without any set-off, restriction or condition and free and clear of any deduction or withholding whether in respect of taxation or otherwise.
Set-Off; Withholdings.
Section 9.12 If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such a determination, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
. Severability.
Section 9.13. The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur if any provision of the Specified Agreements were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof and that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of the Specified Agreements or to enforce specifically the performance of the terms and provisions hereof in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity.
Specific Performance.
Section 9.14 (a) Buyer Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to each Seller the prompt and full discharge by Buyer of all of Buyers covenants, agreements, obligations and liabilities under the Specified Agreements including the due and punctual payment of all amounts which are or may become due and payable by Buyer hereunder when and as the same shall become due and payable (collectively, the ), in accordance with the terms thereof. Buyer Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that, with respect to all Buyer Obligations to pay money, such guaranty shall be a guaranty of payment and performance and not of collection and shall not be conditioned or continge nt upon the pursuit of any claim or remedies against Buyer. If Buyer shall default in the due and punctual performance of any Buyer Obligation, including the full and timely payment of any amount due and payable pursuant to any Buyer Obligation, Buyer Guarantor will forthwith perform or cause to be performed such Buyer Obligation and will forthwith make full payment of any amount due with respect thereto at its sole cost and expense.
. Buyer Guarantor.
Buyer Obligations
(b) Buyer Guarantors obligations hereunder shall remain in full force and effect until the Buyer Obligations shall have been performed in full. If at any time any performance by any Person of any Buyer Obligation is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned, whether upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of Buyer or otherwise, Buyer Guarantors obligations hereunder with respect to such Buyer Obligation shall be reinstated at such time as though such Buyer Obligation had become due and had not been performed. None of the
 
32
 
liabilities of Buyer Guarantor hereunder shall be reduced, discharged or otherwise adversely affected by (i) any time or indulgence granted to Buyer by any Seller, (ii) any variation of any of the terms of the Specified Agreements, (iii) any of the administration, insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation or cessation of business of any Seller or Buyer, (iv) any invalidity, illegality, unenforceability, irregularity or frustration in any respect of any of the liabilities or obligations referred to in this Section 9.14 or (v) any other act, omission, event or circumstances which, but for this provision, might operate to prejudice, affect or otherwise affect the liability of Buyer Guarantor under this Section 9.14.
(c) Upon performance by Buyer Guarantor of any Buyer Obligation, Buyer Guarantor shall be subrogated to the rights of Seller against Buyer with respect to such Buyer Obligation; that Buyer Guarantor shall not enforce any Buyer Obligation by way of subrogationagainst Buyer while any Buyer Obligation is due and unperformed by Buyer.
provided
 
Section 9.15 (a) Mr. Plastinin () hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to Buyer the prompt and full discharge by Aladoro Limited of all of Aladoro Limiteds covenants, agreements, obligations and liabilities under the Specified Agreements including the due and punctual payment of all amounts which are or may become due and payable by Aladoro Limited hereunder when and as the same shall become due and payable and the transfer of Aladoro Limiteds Seller Shares to Buyer (collectively, the ), in accordance with the terms thereof. Seller Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that, with respect to all Aladoro Obligations to pay money, such guaranty shall be a guaranty of payment and performance and not of collection and shall not be conditioned or contingent upon the pursuit of any remedies against Aladoro Limited. If Aladoro Limited shall default in the due and punctual performance of any Aladoro Obligation, including the full and timely payment of any amount due and payable pursuant to any Aladoro Obligation, Seller Guarantor will forthwith perform or cause to be performed such Aladoro Obligation and will forthwith make full payment of any amount due with respect thereto at its sole cost and expense.
. Seller Guarantor.
Seller Guarantor
Aladoro Obligations
(b) Seller Guarantors obligations hereunder shall remain in full force and effect until the Aladoro Obligations shall have been performed in full. If at any time any performance by any Person of any Aladoro Obligation is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned, whether upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of Aladoro Limited or otherwise, Seller Guarantors obligations hereunder with respect to such Aladoro Obligation shall be reinstated at such time as though such Aladoro Obligation had become due and had not been performed. None of the liabilities of Seller Guarantor hereunder shall be reduced, discharged or otherwise adversely affected by (i) any time or indulgence granted to Seller by Buyer, (ii) any variation of any of the terms of the Specified Agreements, (iii) any of the administration, insolv ency, bankruptcy, liquidation or cessation of business of Buyer or Seller, (iv) any invalidity, illegality, unenforceability, irregularity or frustration in any respect of any of the liabilities or obligations referred to in this Section 9.15 or (v) any other act, omission, event or circumstances which, but for this provision, might operate to prejudice, affect or otherwise affect the liability of Seller Guarantor under this Section 9.15.
 
33
 
(c) Upon performance by Seller Guarantor of any Aladoro Obligation, Seller Guarantor shall be subrogated to the rights of Buyer against Aladoro Limited with respect to such Aladoro Obligation; that Seller Guarantor shall not enforce any Aladoro Obligation by way of subrogation against Aladoro Limited while any Aladoro Obligation is due and unperformed by Aladoro Limited.
provided
*  *  *  *  *
 
34
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*4 GDRs = 1 Share
**4 ADRs = 1 Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To:
 
[] ()
Name of the company
Company
 
From:
 
[]
name, passport details
 
Member of the Board of Directors of the Company
 
RESIGNATION LETTER
 
In accordance with regulation [] of the Companys articles of association, I hereby resign from my position as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company with effect as of [].
 
I hereby acknowledge and confirm that I have no claim or right of action of any kind outstanding for compensation or otherwise against the Company or any of its officers or employees in respect of the termination of my office.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
PURCHASE, N.Y. and MOSCOW  Dec. 2, 2010  PepsiCo (NYSE: PEP), one of the worlds largest food-and- beverage companies, and Wimm-Bill-Dann (NYSE: WBD), Russias leading branded food-and- beverage company, today announced that PepsiCo has agreed to acquire 66% of for $3.8 billion, pending the required government approvals.  In connection with this acquisition, PepsiCo will offer to acquire the remaining shares of through an offer following completion of that acquisition at such time and on terms as are mandated by Rus sian law, and PepsiCo may acquire additional shares in other transactions.
Foods OJSC
 
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
is a leader in both traditional and value-added dairy products, with a solid position in juice.  The transaction will establish PepsiCo as the largest food-and-beverage business in Russia, make it a leader in the countrys fast-growing dairy category and build its presence in key markets in Eastern Europe and Central Asia.  It also will raise PepsiCos annual global revenues from nutritious and functional foods from approximately $10 billion today to nearly $13 billion.  This moves the company closer to its strategic goal of building a $30 billion nutrition business by 2020.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Adding to PepsiCos portfolio is financially attractive and gives us a strong, high-growth platform in the dairy category, said Indra Nooyi, PepsiCo chairman and chief executive officer. It also gives us clear leadership in the food-and-beverage industry in Russia, a fast-growing, strategically important market offering abundant opportunity.  At the same time, s strong, value-added dairy business
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
 
 
 
 
immediately advances our global nutrition strategy to provide consumers around the world nutritious foods and beverages that are accessible, affordable and advantaged by science.  Dairy has a huge, untapped potential to bridge snacks and beverages.  We see the emerging opportunity to snackify beverages and drinkify snacks as the next frontier in food and beverage convenience.
 is a terrific business with significant opportunities, said Zein Abdalla, chief executive officer of PepsiCo Europe.  s management team has built an outstanding portfolio of market-leading dairy and juice brands that are loved by consumers across Russia. The combination of and PepsiCo Russia will create a powerhouse business in terms of scale, brand portfolio and system capabilities with the potential to be leveraged across the broader East European and Central Asian region.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
Sergei Plastinin, chairman of the board of directors and one of the shareholders who agreed to sell shares to PepsiCo, said:  The agreement reached with PepsiCo is a historic one for both our company and our country.  was founded just 18 years ago with a handful of employees, who were all based in one room, which saw the birth of our company name, our logo and our first juice brand, J7. Today we have over 16,000 people and 38 production facilities.  In this time, has created great juice, dairy and toddler and baby food brands that are among the best loved and recognized in Russia and neighbori ng countries. Today we announced the planned coming together of our company with one of the most successful and best-known global companies. This represents a tremendous vote of confidence in the future of the Russian market. Integration into PepsiCo also provides our employees with access to a world-class corporate culture and almost unlimited career potential in one of the largest companies in the world.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
Terms of the Transaction
Under the acquisition agreement, PepsiCo will acquire 66% of from a group of shareholders and subsidiaries of Wimm-Bill-Dann.  The approximately $3.8 billion PepsiCo will pay to acquire the stake in implies a total enterprise value of approximately $5.4 billion.  The price being paid by PepsiCo to the selling shareholders  $33.00 per ADR share which is equivalent to $132.00 per ordinary Russian share)  represents a premium
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
(
of
32%
 to the 30-day average trading price of
s ADR shares.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of certain regulatory approvals.
 
Financial Impact
 
PepsiCo indicated the transaction is expected to be modestly accretive to earnings in year one (excluding one-time transaction costs and fees).  PepsiCo expects the combination to have the potential for total pre-tax annual run-rate synergies of approximately $100 million by 2014. The transaction will be funded through a combination of internal cash on hand and short-term debt financing, preserving balance sheet flexibility.
Key Attributes of the Combined Company
The completed transaction, which will be accretive to PepsiCos top-line and bottom-line growth rates, excluding one-time transaction costs and fees, will bring together PepsiCos large global food and beverage brands (Pepsi-Cola, Lipton and Lays), its Russian juice and water brands (Fruktovi Sad, Ya, Tonus, Hrusteam and
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
).
Aqua Minerale) and
Wimm-Bill-Dann
s portfolio of leading dairy and juice brands (Domik v Dorevne, Chudo, Imunele, J7, Lubimy Sad, 100% Gold Premium and Agusha
Upon completion of the full acquisition:
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Key Attributes of Dairy Category
Key Attributes of Russian Market
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
Conference Call
 
At 7:30 a.m. (U.S./Eastern Time) today, PepsiCo will host a conference call with investors to discuss the transaction.  A webcast of the call may be accessed through the companys website at .
www.pepsico.com/investors
 
Advisers
 
Centerview Partners and Morgan Stanley acted as financial advisers for PepsiCo, and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and Linklaters CIS acted as legal advisers.  J.P. Morgan acted as financial adviser for , and Latham & Watkins LLP acted as legal adviser.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
About
Wimm-Bill-Dann
was founded in 1992 and is the largest manufacturer of dairy products and a leading producer of juices and beverages in Russia and the CIS, with revenues for the twelve months ended in June 2010 of approximately $2.4 billion.  
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Since 2005, Wimm-Bill-Dann has nearly doubled its revenue.
The company produces dairy products (Domik v Dorevne, Vesely Molochnik, Chudo, Imunele, Bio Max and others), juices (J7, Lubimy Sad,  and 100% Gold, Wonder-Berry and more), Essentuki mineral water, Rodniki Rossii natural water, Zdraivery kids brand and Agusha baby food.
 
The company has 38 manufacturing facilities in Russia, Ukraine and Central Asia with over 16,000 employees. In 2005, became the first and only Russian dairy producer to receive approval from the European Commission to export its products into the European Union.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
Its powerful operating platform includes an extensive chilled direct-store-distribution network and substantial product innovation and R&D capabilities.
In 2010, Standard & Poors Governance Services confirmed a  governance, accountability, management, metrics, and analysis (GAMMA) score of GAMMA 7+.  The score is the highest among Russian companies and reflects the effective work of the Board of Directors and, in particular, the real influence of independent directors in the decision-making process and the adherence of the controlling shareholders to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
- 4 -
 
About PepsiCo
PepsiCo offers the world's largest portfolio of billion-dollar food and beverage brands, including 19 different product lines that each generates more than $1 billion in annual retail sales.  Our main businesses  Frito-Lay, Quaker, Pepsi-Cola, Tropicana and Gatorade  also make hundreds of other nourishing, tasty foods and drinks that bring joy to our consumers in more than 200 countries.  With annualized revenues of nearly $60 billion, PepsiCo's people are united by our unique commitment to sustainable growth, called Performance with Purpose.  By dedicating ourselves to offering a broad array of choices for healthy, convenient and fun nourishment, reducing our environmental impact, and fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace culture, PepsiCo balances strong financial returns with giving back to our communities worldwide.  For more information, please visit
www.pepsico.com
.
PepsiCo Cautionary Statement
Statements in this release that are "forward-looking statements" are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends.  They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.  Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: PepsiCos ability to consummate the acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann and to achieve the synergies and value creation contemplated by the proposed acquisition; loss of key employees or customers or other business disruption as a result of the proposed acquisition; PepsiCos ability to promptly and effectively integrate the businesses of Wimm-Bill-Dann and PepsiCo; the timing to consummate the proposed acquisition and any necessary actions to obtain required regulatory approvals; and the diversion of management time on issues related to the proposed acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann; changes in demand for PepsiCo's products, as a result of changes in consumer preferences and tastes or otherwise; damage to PepsiCo's reputation; trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with PepsiCo's bottling partners; PepsiCo's ability to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce; unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where PepsiCo operates; changes in the legal and regulatory environment; PepsiCo's ability to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement its ongoing business process transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively; unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates; PepsiCo's ability to compete effect ively; increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies; disruption of PepsiCo's supply chain; climate change or changes in legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change; PepsiCo's ability to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisitions of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. and PepsiAmericas, Inc.; failure to renew collective bargaining agreements or strikes or work stoppages; and any downgrade of PepsiCo's credit rating resulting in an increase of its future borrowing costs.
 
For additional information on these and other factors that could cause PepsiCo's actual results to materially differ from those set forth herein, please see PepsiCo's filings with the SEC, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.  Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made.  PepsiCo undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
SOURCE PepsiCo, Inc.
 
 
 
- 5 -
 
 
possible transaction involving provided to PepsiCo certain non-public financial forecasts that were prepared by Wimm-Bill-Dann management in connection with the possible transaction and not for public disclosure.
In addition to the
Wimm-Bill-Dann
shares agreed to be acquired as described in the accompanying press release, PepsiCo may acquire additional 
Wimm-Bill-Dann
shares, from time to time, depending on market conditions and other considerations, at prices and in amounts that PepsiCo determines, in open market or privately negotiated purchases or other transactions, in the United States, Russia or elsewhere.
 
In connection with the evaluation of a
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
forecasts provided to PepsiCo included 6-year projections of net sales and EBITDA.  These projections assumed that would continue its business generally as then conducted and that would not take any extraordinary actions, such as dispositions of assets or properties or refinancing of indebtedness, and the projections did not take into account the transaction with PepsiCo. These projections also made certain assumptions regarding the exchange rate between Rubles and US Dollars.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
A chart summarizing the projections provided to PepsiCo is set forth below.
 
 
These forecasts were not prepared with a view toward public disclosure, nor were they prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the SEC, the guidelines established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants for preparation and presentation of prospective financial information, or generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, these forecasts were not prepared with the assistance of, or reviewed by, s independent registered public accounting firm or any other independent accountants.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
These forecasts were based on numerous variables and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and may be beyond the control of . Important factors that may affect actual results and cause these financial forecasts to not be achieved include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties relating to s business (including its ability to achieve strategic goals, objectives and targets over the applicable periods), industry performance, the regulatory environment and general business and economic conditions. These forecasts also reflect assumptions as to certain business decisions that are subject to change. Furthermore, because these forecasts cover multiple years, such information by i ts nature becomes less reliable with each successive year. As a result, actual results may differ materially from those contained in these forecasts. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that these forecasts will be realized or that s future financial results will not materially vary from these forecasts.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
 
The disclosure of these forecasts in this press release should not be regarded as an indication that PepsiCo,   or their respective affiliates, advisors or representatives considered these forecasts to be predictive of actual future events, and these forecasts should not be relied upon as such. None of PepsiCo, or any of their respective affiliates, advisors or representatives can give you any assurance that actual results will not differ from these forecasts, and none of them undertakes any obligation to update or otherwise revise or reconcile these forecasts to reflect circumstances existing after the date these forecasts were generated or to reflect the occurrence of future event s, including the transaction with PepsiCo, even in the event that any or all of the assumptions underlying these forecasts are shown to be in error.  None of PepsiCo, or any of their respective affiliates, advisors or representatives has made or makes any representation to any shareholder or other person regarding s ultimate performance compared to the information contained in these forecasts or that forecasted results will be achieved. has made no representation to PepsiCo concerning these forecasts.
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
Wimm-Bill-Dann
- 6 -


