FILE:PEP/PEP-8K-20120426075525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02 is a copy of the press release issued by PepsiCo, Inc. ("PepsiCo"), dated April 26, 2012, reporting PepsiCo's financial results for the 12 weeks ended March 24, 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PepsiCo, Inc. (NYSE: PEP) today reported net revenue growth of 4 percent and constant currency net revenue growth of 5 percent. Reported EPS was $0.71 and core EPS was $0.69, in line with management's expectations. Management reaffirmed both its 2012 core constant currency EPS guidance and long-term financial targets and stated that its 2012 strategic initiatives are on track.
PURCHASE, N.Y.  April 26, 2012
"Our first quarter results reflect the strength of our brands which allowed us to implement significant pricing actions," said PepsiCo Chairman and CEO Indra Nooyi. "Effective pricing and packaging initiatives drove 5 percent constant currency net revenue growth, allowing us to substantially offset approximately $300 million in commodity cost inflation."
 
"With disciplined pricing now in place, we're doubling our focus on the other key initiatives for 2012. Our top priorities include stepping up our brand support through increased advertising and marketing, accelerating our innovation, and driving an aggressive productivity agenda that includes a significant restructuring program.
"All of these initiatives were launched in Q1 with good results, are on track, and will gain momentum as the year progresses. We're executing on a clear, deliberate game plan that will enhance our competitiveness while also positioning PepsiCo for sustainable growth and value creation for the long term."
Operating and Marketplace Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of First Quarter Financial Performance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All comparisons are on a core year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted.
Division Operating Summaries
PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF)
Frito-Lay North America (FLNA)
Net revenue grew 4 percent, reflecting 6 percentage points of effective net pricing. Net revenue growth was particularly strong in the C-store, Dollar and Foodservice channels, supported by innovation and increased media spending.
Volume performance was negatively impacted by approximately 2 percentage points due to the extra week of results in 2011, which caused the key pre-New Year's holiday week to be included in the fourth quarter of 2011 rather than in the first quarter of 2012.
Operating profit growth of 2 percent reflected the net revenue growth and productivity gains partially offset by commodity cost inflation.
Latin America Foods (LAF)
Net revenue grew 11 percent reflecting volume growth and 11 percentage points of effective net pricing, offset by unfavorable currency translation of 6 percentage points.
Volume grew 15 percent, reflecting a 10-percentage-point benefit from acquisitions and 4.5 percent organic volume growth. Organic volume gains were led by mid-single-digit growth in Mexico.
Operating profit grew 10 percent as volume gains, positive effective net pricing and productivity initiatives offset commodity cost inflation, an 8-percentage-point unfavorable currency translation impact, and a net 5-percentage-point negative impact from acquisitions and divestitures.
Quaker Foods North America (QFNA)
Net revenue declined 3 percent and volume declined 5 percent, reflecting general category trends. Operating profit declined 10 percent, primarily reflecting the benefit from an inventory accounting change recorded in the prior year, which contributed 7 percentage points to the decline.
PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB)
Net revenue declined 2 percent, primarily reflecting the impact of the refranchising of the division's beverage business in Mexico, which reduced net revenue by 4 percentage points. Net revenue performance also reflected 4 percentage points of effective net pricing. Excluding the impact of the Mexico refranchising, net revenue increased 2 percent.
PAB volume declined 1 percent in the quarter, with gains in Latin America offset by a decline in North America. Non-carbonated beverages grew 1 percent offsetting a 2-percentage-point decline in CSDs. The decline in North America in part reflects the impact of pricing actions taken. Immediate consumption
 
packaged beverage volume in North America grew high-single-digits, driven by strong retail execution. Growth in Latin America was led by double-digit gains in Mexico, high-single-digit growth in Argentina and mid-single-digit growth in Brazil.
Operating profit declined in the quarter, primarily as a result of increased commodity costs which offset the benefits of net pricing and savings resulting from recent restructuring activities.
Europe
Net revenue increased 13 percent, reflecting the benefit of the Wimm-Bill-Dann (WBD) acquisition and 5 percentage points of effective net pricing, offset partially by unfavorable foreign currency translation impact of 4 percentage points.
Volume increased double-digits in both snacks and beverages for the quarter including the impact of the WBD acquisition. Snacks volume increased 3 percent on an organic basis with gains led by the United Kingdom, South Africa and Russia. Beverage volume declined 1 percent on an organic basis, with growth in the United Kingdom and Germany offset by declines in Turkey and Russia, which were lapping double-digit gains.
Operating profit performance reflected the net revenue gains and favorable effective net pricing, offset by commodity cost inflation and an unfavorable foreign currency translation impact of 2 percentage points. In addition, operating profit performance was negatively impacted by unfavorable settlements of promotional spending accruals which decreased operating profit by 15 percentage points.
Asia, Middle East & Africa (AMEA)
Net revenue growth of 12 percent was driven by effective net pricing and volume growth. Snacks volume increased 16 percent and beverage volume grew 2 percent.
Snacks delivered its 9th consecutive quarter of double-digit volume growth in AMEA, with first quarter snacks volume growing double digits in India, Australia, Thailand and the Middle East.
Beverage volume growth was driven by double-digit gains in India, Saudi Arabia and the Philippines. China beverage volume performance was impacted by the introduction of a consumer-preferred 500ml PET value package in the third quarter of 2011, which drove unit growth but adversely impacted reported volume growth.
Operating profit grew 7 percent, with volume growth and 7 percentage points of effective net pricing offset partially by higher commodity costs.
Restructuring
As previously announced, the company has committed to a multi-year productivity program. The company incurred pre-tax non-core restructuring charges of $33 million in the first quarter of 2012 and anticipates additional charges of
 
approximately $392 million in the balance of 2012 and another $102 million from 2013 through 2015. These charges resulted in cash expenditures of $44 million in the first quarter of 2012, and the company anticipates additional cash expenditures of approximately $506 million in the remainder of 2012, with the balance of approximately $175 million of related cash expenditures in 2013 through 2015.
2012 Guidance and Outlook
Consistent with its previous guidance for 2012, the company expects a decline in core constant currency EPS of approximately 5 percent from its fiscal 2011 core EPS of $4.40. Based on the current forex market consensus, foreign exchange translation would have an unfavorable impact of approximately two percentage points on the company's full year core EPS performance in 2012. The company expects core constant currency net revenue growth of low-single-digits reflecting the impact of structural changes, principally refranchisings, which are expected to reduce core constant currency net revenue growth by approximately three percentage points for the full year. Excluding these structural changes, core constant currency net revenue is expected to grow mid-single-digits, consistent with the company's prior guidance.
The company is targeting approximately $8 billion in cash flow from operating activities and more than $6 billion in management operating cash flow (excluding certain items) in 2012, which includes the favorable impact of an expected 10 percent reduction in capital spending and improved working capital efficiency. The company also made a pretax discretionary pension and retiree medical contribution of $1 billion in the first quarter of 2012.
Reflecting its commitment to return capital to shareholders, the company anticipates more than $3 billion in share repurchases for 2012, and expects to pay $3.3 billion in dividends. The dividend reflects a 4 percent dividend per share increase effective with the dividend payable in June 2012, making 2012 the company's 40
th
consecutive year of dividend per share growth.
Conference Call
At 8 a.m. (Eastern Time) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss first-quarter results and the outlook for 2012. Further details, including a slide presentation accompanying the call, will be accessible on the company's website at www.pepsico.com/investors in advance of the call.
About PepsiCo
PepsiCo is a global food and beverage leader with net revenues of more than $65 billion and a product portfolio that includes 22 brands that generate more than $1 billion each in annual retail sales. Our main businesses  Quaker, Tropicana, Gatorade, Frito-Lay and Pepsi-Cola  make hundreds of enjoyable foods and beverages that are loved throughout the world. PepsiCo's people are united by our unique commitment to sustainable growth by investing in a healthier future for people and our planet, which we believe also means a more successful future for PepsiCo. We call this commitment Performance with Purpose: PepsiCo's promise to provide a wide range of foods and beverages for local tastes; to find innovative ways to minimize our impact on the environment by conserving energy and water and reducing packaging volume; to provide a great workplace for our associates; and to respect, support and invest in the local communities where we operate. For more information, please visit .
www.pepsico.com
 
Cautionary Statement
Statements in this communication that are "forward-looking statements," including our 2012 guidance, are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. Terminology such as believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "project," "anticipate," "will" or similar statements or variations of such terms are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: changes in demand for PepsiCo's products, as a result of changes in consumer preferences and tastes or otherwise; PepsiCo's ability to compete effectively; unfavorable economic conditions in the countries in which PepsiCo operates; damage to PepsiCo's reputation; PepsiCo's ability to grow its business in developing and emerging markets or unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where PepsiCo operates; trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer; changes in the legal and regulatory environment; PepsiCo's ability to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement its ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies; disruption of PepsiCo's supply chain; climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change; PepsiCo's ability to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce; failure to successfully renew collective bargaining agreements or strikes or work stoppages; failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into PepsiCo's existing operations; failure to successfully implement PepsiCo's global operating model; failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity plan; any downgrade of our credit ratings; and any infringement of or challenge to PepsiCo's intellectual property rights.
"
For additional information on these and other factors that could cause PepsiCo's actual results to materially differ from those set forth herein, please see PepsiCo's filings with the SEC, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. PepsiCo undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Miscellaneous Disclosures
In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found in the attached exhibits, as well as on the company's website at www.pepsico.com in the "Investors" section under "Investor Presentations." Our non-GAAP measures exclude from reported results those items that management believes are not indicative of our ongoing performance and how management evaluates our operating results and trends.
 
Glossary
Beverage volume: Volume shipped to retailers and independent distributors from both PepsiCo and our bottlers.
CoreCore results are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items from our historical results. In 2012, core results exclude the commodity mark-to-market net impact included in corporate unallocated expenses, restructuring charges and merger and integration costs in connection with our acquisition of WBD. In 2011, core results exclude the commodity mark-to-market net impact included in corporate unallocated expenses, as well as merger and integration costs and certain inventory fair value adjustments in connection with our acquisitions of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. (PBG), PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS) and WBD. For more details and reconciliations of our 2012 and 2011 core and core constant currency results, see "Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Information" in the exhibits attached hereto.
:
Constant currency: Financial results assuming constant foreign currency exchange rates used for translation based on the rates in effect for the comparable prior-year period. In order to compute our constant currency results, we multiply or divide, as appropriate, our current year U.S. dollar results by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiply or divide, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior year average foreign exchange rates.
Division operating profit: The aggregation of the operating profit for each of our reportable segments, which excludes the impact of corporate unallocated expenses.
Effective net pricing: The combined impact of mix and price.
Management operating cash flow: Net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending plus sales of property, plant and equipment. This non-GAAP financial measure is our primary measure used to monitor cash flow performance. See the attached exhibits for a reconciliation of this measure to the most directly comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP (operating cash flow).
Management operating cash flow, excluding certain items: Management operating cash flow, excluding: (1) a discretionary pension and post-retirement contribution, (2) restructuring payments, (3) merger and integration payments in connection with the PBG, PAS and WBD acquisitions, (4) capital investments related to the bottling integration, and (5) the tax impacts associated with each of these items, as applicable. See the attached exhibits for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure in accordance with GAAP (operating cash flow).
Mark-to-market gain or loss or net impact: Change in market value for commodity contracts that we purchase to mitigate the volatility in costs of energy and raw materials that we consume. The market value is determined based on average prices on national exchanges and recently reported transactions in the marketplace.
 
Net pricing: The combined impact of list price changes, weight changes per package, discounts and allowances.
Net capital spending: Capital spending less cash proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment.
Organic: A measure that excludes the impact of acquisitions.
Pricing: The impact of list price changes and weight changes per package.
Transaction foreign exchange: The foreign exchange impact on our financial results of transactions, such as purchases of imported raw materials, commodities, or services, occurring in currencies other than the local, functional currency.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net revenue excluding the impact of Mexico refranchising, division operating profit, organic results, core results and core constant currency results are non-GAAP financial measures as they exclude certain items noted below. However, we believe investors should consider these measures as they are more indicative of our ongoing performance and with how management evaluates our operational results and trends.
53rd week impact
In 2011, we had an additional week of results (53rd week). Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every five or six years. The 53rd week increased net revenue by $623 million and operating profit by $109 million in the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011.
Commodity mark-to-market net impact
In the quarter ended March 24, 2012, we recognized $84 million of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. In the quarter ended March 19, 2011, we recognized $31 million of mark-to-market net gains on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. In the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized $102 million of mark-to-market net losses on commodity hedges in corporate unallocated expenses. We centrally manage commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. Certain of these commodity derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and are marked to market with the resulting gains and losses recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions take delivery of the underlying commodity.
Restructuring and impairment charges
In the quarter ended March 24, 2012, we incurred restructuring and impairment charges of $33 million in conjunction with our multi-year productivity plan (Productivity Plan), including $8 million recorded in the FLNA segment, $5 million recorded in the QFNA segment, $6 million recorded in the LAF segment, $8 million recorded in the PAB segment, $9 million recorded in the AMEA segment and credits of $1 million and $2 million recorded in the Europe segment and in corporate unallocated expenses, respectively, representing adjustments of previously recorded amounts. In the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred charges of $383 million in conjunction with our Productivity Plan, including $76 million recorded in the FLNA segment, $18 million recorded in the QFNA segment, $48 million recorded in the LAF segment, $81 million recorded in the PAB segment, $77 million recorded in the Europe segment, $9 million recorded in the AMEA segment and $74 million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses. The Productivity Plan includes actions in every aspect of our business that we believe will strengthen our complementary food, snack and beverage businesses by leveraging new technologies and processes across PepsiCo's operations, go-to-market and information systems; heightening the focus on best practice sharing across the globe; consolidating manufacturing, warehouse and sales facilities; and implementing simplified organization structures, with wider spans of control and fewer layers of management.
Merger and integration charges
In the quarter ended March 24, 2012, we incurred merger and integration charges of $2 million related to our acquisition of WBD and recorded in the Europe segment. In the quarter ended March 19, 2011, we incurred merger and integration charges of $55 million related to our acquisitions of PBG, PAS and WBD, including $21 million recorded in the PAB segment, $42 million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses and a credit of $8 million recorded in the Europe segment, primarily reflecting a gain on our previously held equity interest in WBD. These charges also included closing costs and advisory fees related to our acquisition of WBD. In the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred merger and integration charges of $329 million related to our acquisitions of PBG, PAS and WBD, including $112 million recorded in the PAB segment, $123 million recorded in the Europe segment, $78 million recorded in corporate unallocated expenses and $16 million recorded in interest expense. These charges also included closing costs and advisory fees related to our acquisition of WBD.
 
 
Inventory fair value adjustments
In the quarter ended March 19, 2011, we recorded $34 million of incremental costs in cost of sales related to fair value adjustments to the acquired inventory included in WBD's balance sheet at the acquisition date and hedging contracts included in PBG's and PAS's balance sheets at the acquisition date. In the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded $46 million of incremental costs in cost of sales related to fair value adjustments to the acquired inventory included in WBD's balance sheet at the acquisition date and hedging contracts included in PBG's and PAS's balance sheets at the acquisition date.
Management operating cash flow
Additionally, management operating cash flow is the primary measure management uses to monitor cash flow performance. This is not a measure defined by GAAP. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities. Additionally, we consider certain other items (included in the Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation table) in evaluating management operating cash flow which we believe investors should consider in evaluating our management operating cash flow results.
2012 guidance
Our 2012 core constant currency EPS guidance excludes the commodity mark-to-market net impact included in corporate unallocated expenses, merger and integration charges, and restructuring and impairment charges. In addition, our 2012 core constant currency net revenue and EPS guidance excludes the impact of foreign exchange. We are not able to reconcile our full-year projected 2012 core constant currency EPS growth to our full-year projected 2012 reported results because we are unable to predict the 2012 impact of foreign exchange or the mark-to-market net gains or losses on commodity hedges due to the unpredictability of future changes in foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. In addition, we are unable to reconcile our full-year projected 2012 core constant currency net revenue growth to our full-year projected reported net revenue growth because we are unable to predict the 2012 impact of foreign exchange due to the unpredictability of future changes in foreign exchange rates. Therefore, we are unable to provide a reconciliation of these measures.
 
 
Operating Profit Growth Reconciliation
 
 
Net Income Attributable to PepsiCo Reconciliation
 
Diluted EPS Reconciliation
 
 
 
 
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation
 
Emerging Markets Net Revenue Growth Reconciliation
 
PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB) Net Revenue Growth Reconciliation
 
 
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation
 
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Reconciliation (in billions)
 
*Does not sum due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note  certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding.
 
 
 
Note  certain amounts above may not sum due to rounding.
 


