FILE:IP/IP-8K-20030424080217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 April 24, 2003 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New York 1-3157 13-0872805 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 400 Atlantic Street, Stamford, Connecticut 06921 ----------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 203-541-8000 --------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) ------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (99) Press Release issued by International Paper Company dated April 24, 2003, announcing first quarter 2003 earnings. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Information provided under Item 12-Results of Operations and Financial Condition). The information required by Item 12 is being provided under Item 9 pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission interim filing guidance provided in SEC Release No. 33-8216. On April 24, 2003, International Paper Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99. Such information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. Additionally, executive management will discuss the company's first-quarter earnings during a webcast and conference call to be held today, April 24, 2003 at 10 a.m. (EDT). All interested parties are invited to listen to the webcast live via the company's Internet site at http://www.internationalpaper.com by clicking on the Investor Information button. Persons wishing to listen to the live earnings webcast must pre-register at the site prior to the webcast.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY ------------------------------- (Registrant) Date: April 24, 2003 By /s/ Barbara L. Smithers ----------------------- Stamford, Connecticut Barbara L. Smithers Vice President and Secretary STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES ------------------------ The registered trademark symbol shall be expressed as...................'r'

[INTERNATIONAL PAPER LETTERHEAD] INTERNATIONAL PAPER PLAZA 400 ATLANTIC STREET STAMFORD, CT 06921 News Release Media Contacts: Jennifer Boardman, 203-541-8407 Stacy Wygant, 901-359-6335 Investor Contact: Darial Sneed, 203-541-8541 International Paper Reports First-Quarter 2003 Earnings, Swings to a Profit from Previous Quarter o EPS of $0.09 per share improves from a prior quarter loss of $0.27 per share o EPS before special items of $0.14 up versus $0.12 prior year, despite much higher costs Stamford, Conn. - April 24, 2003 - International Paper (NYSE: IP) today reported first-quarter 2003 net earnings of $44 million ($0.09 per share), compared with a net loss of $1,110 million ($2.31 per share) in the first quarter of 2002 and a net loss of $130 million ($0.27 per share) in the fourth quarter of 2002. Amounts in all periods include the effects of special items, with the first-quarter amounts in both years also reflecting a cumulative effect of an accounting change. Before the cumulative effects of accounting changes and special items, earnings for the first quarter of 2003 were $68 million ($0.14 per share), compared with $58 million ($0.12 per share) in the 2002 first quarter and $160 million ($0.33 per share) in the fourth quarter of 2002. First-quarter 2003 net sales totaled $6.1 billion, compared with $6.0 billion in the first quarter of 2002 and $6.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2002. "Despite adverse weather, higher energy costs and a sluggish world economy, I'm encouraged by our ability to achieve higher year-over-year operating earnings," said John Dillon, International Paper chairman and chief executive officer. "While we're still nowhere near where we want to be, our strong focus on internal improvements and customer service continues to positively impact our results." Special Items and the Cumulative Effects of Accounting Changes Special items in the 2003 first quarter included a net charge of $23 million before taxes and minority interest ($14 million after taxes and minority interest or $0.03 per share) for certain costs related to the shutdown of the Natchez, Miss., dissolving pulp mill, and other charges for organizational realignments and related severance. Also in the quarter, the company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations", resulting in a $10 million after-tax charge ($0.02 per share) for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting.
Special items in the first quarter of 2002 consisted of a $10 million pre-tax credit ($7 million after taxes) for the reversal of reserves no longer required. In addition, the company also recorded a cumulative effect of an accounting change of $1.2 billion in the 2002 first quarter for the transitional goodwill impairment charge from the adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets". Special items in the fourth quarter of 2002 consisted of a pre-tax charge of $101 million ($71 million after taxes and minority interest) for facility closures, administrative realignment severance costs, and cost reduction actions, a pre-tax charge of $450 million ($278 million after taxes) for additions to existing exterior siding legal reserves, a pre-tax charge of $46 million ($27 million after taxes and minority interest) for early debt retirement costs, a pre-tax credit of $58 million ($36 million after taxes) for the reversal of restructuring and realignment reserves no longer required, a pre-tax credit of $10 million ($4 million after taxes) to adjust accrued costs of businesses sold, and a $46 million credit for an adjustment of deferred state income tax reserves. A reconciliation of earnings before special items to net earnings (loss), including information regarding the cumulative effect of accounting changes and special items, is presented in a table in this press release. Segment Information Compared with the first quarter of 2002, operating profits were up slightly as higher energy costs and extreme weather conditions that affected fiber costs were offset by volume and pricing gains. First-quarter 2003 segment operating profits and business trends compared with the fourth quarter of 2002 were as follows. First-quarter operating profits for Printing Papers were $122 million compared with fourth-quarter 2002 operating profits of $157 million due to higher energy and fiber costs as well as weather-related operating problems at U.S. mills. Industrial and Consumer Packaging operating profits were $89 million in the first quarter, compared with $116 million in the 2002 fourth quarter as higher Industrial Packaging volumes were offset by seasonally weaker demand in Consumer Packaging as well as higher energy and fiber costs. The company's distribution business, xpedx, reported operating profits of $15 million for the first quarter of 2003 compared with operating profits in the fourth quarter of 2002 of $28 million, due to seasonally lower sales and higher energy costs that impacted warehousing and delivery costs. First-quarter Forest Products operating profits of $161 million were up slightly from $156 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 as slightly improved lumber and plywood results offset lower harvest volumes and lower gains from land sales. Operating profits at Carter Holt Harvey, International Paper's 50.5 percent owned subsidiary in New Zealand, were $16 million in the first quarter of 2003, flat with fourth-quarter 2002 operating profits amid improved paper and pulp results offset by lower results in forests and wood products.
Corporate items, net, were $88 million for the 2003 first quarter, slightly lower than $94 million in the first quarter of 2002, but higher than in the fourth quarter of 2002 due to an increase in pension expense and higher supply chain initiative costs, somewhat offset by lower benefit costs. Fourth-quarter expenses were also lower due to proceeds from the sale of shares received from an insurance company demutualization. The company will hold a webcast to discuss earnings and current market conditions at 10 a.m. (EDT) today. All interested parties are invited to listen to the webcast live via the company's Internet site at http://www.internationalpaper.com by clicking on the Investor Information button. Persons who wish to listen to the live earnings webcast must pre-register at the site prior to the webcast. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the Web site beginning at 1 p.m. (EDT) this afternoon. International Paper (http://www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative 'r' (SFI'r') program, a system that ensures the continual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, air and water quality. Headquartered in the United States, International Paper has operations in over 40 countries and sells its products in more than 120 nations. # # # Statements in this press release that are not historical are forward-looking. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including but not limited to, the strength of demand for the company's products and changes in overall demand, the effects of competition from foreign and domestic producers, the level of housing starts, changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations, the ability of the company to continue to realize anticipated cost savings, performance of the company's manufacturing operations, results of legal proceedings, changes related to international economic conditions, changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro, economic conditions in developing countries, specifically Brazil and Russia, the current military action in Iraq and the war on terrorism. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
International Paper Summary of Consolidated Earnings Preliminary and Unaudited (In millions except for net sales and per share amounts) (a) Includes $23 million of net charges before taxes and minority interest ($14 million after taxes and minority interest) for certain costs related to the shutdown of the Natchez, Miss., dissolving pulp mill, and other charges for organizational realignments and related severance. (b) Includes a $15 million charge before taxes ($10 million after taxes) for the adoption of SFAS No. 143, "Asset Retirement Obligations". (c) Includes a $10 million pre-tax credit ($7 million after taxes) for the reversal of reserves no longer required. (d) Includes a $1,236 million charge before minority interest ($1,175 million after minority interest) for the transitional goodwill impairment charge from the adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
International Paper Reconciliation of Earnings Before Special Items to Net Earnings (Loss) Preliminary and Unaudited (In millions except for per share amounts) (1) The company calculates Earnings Before Special Items by excluding the after-tax effect of the adoption of new accounting standards and items considered by management to be unusual from the net earnings (loss) reported under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Management uses this measure to focus on on-going operations, and believes that it is useful to investors because it enables them to perform meaningful comparisons of past and present operating results. International Paper believes that using this information along with net earnings (loss) provides for a more complete analysis of the results of operations by quarter. Net earnings (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
International Paper Sales and Earnings by Industry Segment Preliminary and Unaudited (In millions) Sales by Industry Segment Earnings by Industry Segment (1) Includes Arizona Chemical, Industrial Papers, Chemical Cellulose Pulp and businesses identified in our divestiture program. (2) Operating profits for industry segments include each segment's percentage share of the profits of subsidiaries included in that segment that are less than wholly owned. The pre-tax minority interest for these subsidiaries is added here to present consolidated earnings before income taxes, minority interest, extraordinary items, and cumulative effect of accounting changes.
International Paper Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2) Preliminary and Unaudited (1) Includes third party and inter-segment sales, and 100 percent of volumes sold by Carter Holt Harvey. (2) Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale.
International Paper Consolidated Balance Sheet Preliminary and Unaudited (In Millions)


