FILE:IP/IP-8K-20050502165233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.01 COMPLETION OF ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS
 
On May 2, 2005, International Paper Company (the "Company") announced the completion of the sale of its Fine Papers business to Mohawk Paper Mills, Inc. Subject to certain adjustments to be made after closing, the Company anticipates cash proceeds from the transaction will be approximately $60 million.
 
A copy of the Company's press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1    Press Release of International Paper Company dated May 2, 2005.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1:    Press Release of International Paper Company, dated May 2, 2005.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
PRESS RELEASE OF INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
DATED MAY 2, 2005
 
 
News Release
 
 
 
 International Paper (NYSE: IP) has completed the sale of its Fine Papers business to Mohawk Paper Mills, Inc., of Cohoes, N.Y. Subject to certain adjustments to be made after closing, the company anticipates cash proceeds from the transaction will be approximately $60 million.
STAMFORD, Conn. May 2, 2005
 
The Fine Papers Business includes the writing, text and cover papers and artist papers segments. Included in the sale are the Hamilton, Ohio, paper mill, with an annual production capacity of approximately 65,000 tons; the Saybrook, Ohio, converting center; and the Westfield, Mass., artist papers converting operation. The business employs approximately 500 people. The sale also includes the Strathmore, Brite Hue, Via and Beckett brands.
 
International Paper (www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative program, a system that ensures the perpetual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting biodiversity, wildlife, plants, soil, water and air quality. Headquartered in the United States, IP has operations in over 40 countries and sells its products in more than 120 nations.
 


