FILE:IP/IP-8K-20050822172444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 16, 2005, International Paper Company (the "Company") announced that it had signed a lock-in agreement with Rank Group Investments Limited to sell the Company's 50.5 percent interest in Carter Holt Harvey Limited, a New Zealand company for NZ$2.50 (approximately US$1.74) per share. The preliminary estimate of the after-tax gain on the sale is currently being calculated. The preliminary estimate will be disclosed when available and the actual amount will not be finalized until closing, expected to occur in the second half of 2005. Copies of the press release and lock-in agreement are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
On August 16, 2005, the Company also issued a press release announcing the Company's relocation of its global headquarters to Memphis, Tennessee from Stamford, Connecticut. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
News Release
 
 
 International Paper (NYSE: IP) announced today that it has signed a lock-in agreement with Rank Group Investments Limited to sell its shares of Carter Holt Harvey Limited (CHH) into a full takeover offer to all shareholders. Rank Group Investments Limited is based in New Zealand.
STAMFORD, Conn.  Aug. 16, 2005
 
The lock-in agreement requires that International Paper accept the Rank Group's takeover offer of NZ$2.50 per share for IP's 660,843,571 ordinary shares, or 50.5 percent, of New Zealand-based CHH. This same price will be offered to all shareholders in a full takeover offer by the Rank Group, in compliance with the New Zealand Takeovers Code. The offer is anticipated to be launched within four to six weeks. IP's acceptance of this offer will satisfy the minimum shareholder acceptance condition of the full takeover offer.
 
Proceeds from IP's sale of its shares are expected to be about NZ$1.65 billion. At today's exchange rates, this is approximately US$1.16 billion.
 
The offer price of NZ$2.50 per share represents approximately a 30-percent increase from the share price prior to International Paper announcing its intention to explore strategic alternatives for its majority stake of CHH on June 26, 2005.
 
"This is an important first step in International Paper's transformation plan to improve returns, strengthen the balance sheet and return cash to shareowners by narrowing our focus to two key platform businesses (uncoated papers and packaging) and exploring strategic options for others," said John Faraci, IP chairman and chief executive officer. "CHH is a solid business with talented employees. While we remain confident in the company's leadership and strategy to grow and improve, our companies' strategies and priorities have evolved and the business climate has changed. The timing is now right for us to divest our interests."
 
Specific terms of the agreement between the Rank Group, IP and Ngahere Aotearoa, IP's wholly-owned subsidiary and holder of its 50.5 percent stake in CHH, will be available to the public tomorrow from the New Zealand Stock Exchange and will also be filed with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission.
 
International Paper (http://www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) program, a system that ensures the continual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, air and water quality. Headquartered in the United States, International Paper has operations in over 40 countries and sells its products in more than 120 nations.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including but not limited to the ability of the company to accomplish its transformation plan and to realize anticipated cost savings, the demand and pricing for the company's products and changes in overall demand, the effects of competition from foreign and domestic producers, the level of housing starts, changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, changes in energy costs, unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations, performance of the company's manufacturing operations, results of legal proceedings, changes related to international economic conditions, specifically in Brazil, Russia and China, changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro, and the war on terrorism. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
Related press releases are available at :
www.internationalpaper.com
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dated 17 August 2005
AGREEMENT
 
PARTIES
 
NGAHERE AOTEAROA ("Ngahere")
 
INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY ("IP")
 
RANK GROUP INVESTMENTS LIMITED ("Rank")
 
RANK GROUP LIMITED ("RGL")
 
INTRODUCTION
 
 
 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
 
 
 
Rank Group Investments Limited ("") offers to purchase all Carter Holt Harvey Limited's ("") fully-paid ordinary shares ("") for $2.50 in cash per CHH Share, on the terms and conditions contained in this offer document ("").
Rank
Carter Holt Harvey
CHH Shares
Offer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c/- Computershare Investor Services Limited
Level 2, 159 Hurstmere Road
Takapuna
Private Bag 92119
Auckland
New Zealand
 
Telephone:    +64 9 488 8777
Facsimile:     +64 9 488 8787
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Offer, and any contract arising from acceptance of it, are conditional upon Rank receiving acceptances by no later than the Closing Date in respect of that number of CHH Shares that would, upon this Offer being declared unconditional and the relevant CHH Shares being transferred to Rank, result in Rank holding or controlling more than 50% of the voting rights in Carter Holt Harvey.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disposes of, purchases, transfers, leases, charges, mortgages, grants a lien or other encumbrance over, grants an option or legal or equitable interest in respect of, or otherwise deals with a legal or equitable interest in a material asset, business, operation, property or subsidiary (or agrees, including agreeing to materially vary any agreement, to do any of these things or makes an announcement in respect of any of them), that is or could reasonably be expected to be material to the CHH Group, taken as a whole;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then either a cheque will be sent (by ordinary mail) or an electronic transfer of cleared funds will be made (at the election of the accepting Carter Holt Harvey shareholder) by Rank for the aggregate amount payable (calculated based on $2.50 per CHH Share, unless adjusted under paragraphs 7.1 or 7.4 above) to the accepting Carter Holt Harvey shareholder, by the date specified in paragraph 2.2 above. If an accepting Carter Holt Harvey shareholder does not select a method of payment, that shareholder will be paid by cheque.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
will, in each case, be deemed to be notice to all offerees when so given.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shareholder/Transferor (the )
Transferor
 
 
ACCEPTANCE OF OFFER
 
By signing this form the Transferor, for the consideration stated above, hereby:
 
 
 
Rank agrees to take the CHH Shares subject to the terms of the Offer. Subject to the terms of the Offer, the Transferor hereby authorises Rank to use the Transferor's CSN to transfer the CHH Shares to Rank. If the Transferor does not fill in the CSN, then the Transferor agrees the indemnity overleaf will apply.
 
METHOD OF PAYMENT
 
Payment will be made by either electronic transfer directly into the Transferor's bank account, or by cheque. Please select a Method of Payment by ticking the appropriate box below.
 
 
If you do not select a Method of Payment, you will be paid by cheque.
Note:
 
Please complete the boxes below if you wish to be paid by electronic transfer.
Electronic Transfer Details:
 
 
EXECUTION
 
and executed the day of 2005
DATED
                    
                    
 
 
NOTES AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETION
 
 
 
 
 
Rank Group Investments Limited
c/- Computershare Investor Services Limited
Level 2, 159 Hurstmere Road
Takapuna
Private Bag 92119
Auckland
New Zealand
 
Telephone: +64 9 488 8777
Facsimile:   +64 9 488 8787
 
 
 
IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT ABOUT THE PROCEDURE FOR ACCEPTANCES,
PLEASE CALL [                                              ] ON [                                                  ]
 
 
 
 
BY THE TRANSFEROR'S EXECUTION ON THE FACE OF THIS FORM, THE TRANSFEROR:
 
 
 
 
AND
 
 
As from the date of beneficial ownership, and title, to my/our CHH Shares passing to Rank in accordance with the terms of the Offer, I/we hereby irrevocably authorise and appoint Rank (with power of substitution by Rank in favour of such person(s) as Rank may appoint to act on its behalf) as my/our attorney and agent to act for me/us and do all matters of any kind or nature whatsoever in respect of or pertaining to the CHH Shares and all rights and benefits attaching to them as Rank may think proper and expedient and which I/we could lawfully do or cause to be done if personally acting as a legal or beneficial owner of the applicable CHH Shares.
 
IF SIGNING UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY THE ATTORNEY(S) SIGNING MUST SIGN THE FOLLOWING CERTIFICATE:
 
 
 
HEREBY CERTIFIES:
 
 
 
 
Signed at this day of 2005
                        
            
            
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
INTERNATIONAL PAPER PLAZA
400 ATLANTIC STREET
STAMFORD, CT 06921
 
News Release
 
 
 International Paper (NYSE: IP) today announced a decision to relocate its global headquarters to Memphis, Tenn., from Stamford, Conn. The company expects the move to be complete by Aug. 1, 2006.
STAMFORD, Conn.  Aug. 16, 2005
 
The decision to relocate came after a 30-day evaluation announced in July as part of IP's transformation plan.
 
"We have a long history in the Northeast and appreciate the support we have received from the state of Connecticut and the city of Stamford," Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Faraci said. "In light of the company's plan to become more focused and streamline our operations, we believe the timing is right to relocate our global headquarters to Memphis, because of the improved efficiencies that will result from having all of the company's leadership in one place.
 
"We believe this is the right long-term decision for International Paper, and we also recognize we will lose some talented members of our organization. We are committed to supporting them through this transition," he said.
 
International Paper relocated its operational headquarters from New York City to Memphis in 1987. The company currently employs about 3,000 people there.
 
International Paper has been headquartered in Stamford since 2001, when it moved into the offices formerly occupied by Champion International, which was purchased by IP in 2000. The global headquarters employs about 150 people.
 
International Paper (http://www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) program, a system that ensures the continual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, air and water quality. Headquartered in the United States, International Paper has operations in over 40 countries and sells its products in more than 120 nations.
 
 
 
Related press releases available at www.internationalpaper.com:
 
 


