FILE:IP/IP-8K-20050606170833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 ELECTION OF DIRECTOR
 
On June 6, 2005, International Paper Company issued a press release relating to the election of Alberto Weisser, as a director of International Paper Company, effective January 1, 2006. The Committee assignment for Mr. Walter has not yet been determined. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is herein incorporated by reference.
 
Mr. Weisser is the chairman and chief executive officer of Bunge Limited.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1:    Press Release of International Paper Company, dated June 6, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
News Release
 
CONTACTS:
 
 
 
 International Paper (NYSE: IP) today announced the election of Alberto Weisser to its board of directors. Mr. Weisser is chief executive officer and chairman of the board of Bunge Limited, a global agribusiness and food company. The election will be effective on Jan. 1, 2006.
STAMFORD, Conn.  June 6, 2005
 
"Alberto brings a very strong global industrial and finance background. His perspective and expertise will be a valuable addition to our board," said John Faraci, IP's chairman and chief executive officer.
 
Mr. Weisser, 49, joined Bunge in 1993 as chief financial officer and was appointed CEO of the company in 1999. Prior to joining Bunge, Mr. Weisser worked for the BASF Group for 15 years in Brazil, Germany, U.S.A., and Mexico.
 
He serves on the board of directors of Ferro Corporation and is a member of the North American Agribusiness Advisory Board of Rabobank.
 
Mr. Weisser earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from the Universidade de So Paulo and has participated in several post-graduate programs at Harvard Business School. He also attended INSEAD's Management Development Program in France.
 
International Paper (www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative  (SFI) program, a system that ensures the continual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, air and water quality. Headquartered in the United States, International Paper has operations in over 40 countries and sells its products in more than 120 nations.
 


