FILE:IP/IP-8K-20051123133620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The information set forth under Item 2.03 of this report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated in Item 1.01 by reference.
 
 
On November 21, 2005, International Paper Company, as guarantor (the "Company"), and International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l., a Luxembourg wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Borrower"), entered into an $800,000,000 Credit Facility, dated November 21, 2005, among the Company, the Borrower, BNP Paribas, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., New York Branch, as mandated lead arrangers, certain financial institutions named therein and BNP Paribas, as facility agent (the "Credit Facility"). The Credit Facility consists of a five year $700,000,000 term loan facility and a 364 day $100,000,000 revolving credit facility. Under the Credit Facility the Company can add up to four additional borrowers. The Borrower intends to use the proceeds of the Credit Facility for general corporate purposes, with the revolving credit portion also intended to be used for working capital purposes.
 
Draw downs under the term loan facility will mature on November 21, 2010 with the principal due at maturity and accrued interest payable every one, two, three or six months (depending on the periodic term selected by the Borrower) and at maturity. Draw downs on the revolving credit facility will mature on November 20, 2006 with the principal due at maturity and accrued interest payable every one, two, three or six months (depending on the periodic term selected by the Borrower) and at maturity. Interest on the Credit Facility will be computed based upon a LIBOR or EURIBOR rate, plus a margin ranging from .30% to .60% per annum based upon the long term credit rating of the Company (the "Applicable Margin"), plus certain other mandatory costs. Under the Credit Facility, the Borrower may, at its option, alter the periodic term of each loan and, thereafter, interest on such loan will be computed based upon a one, two, three or six-month LIBOR or EURIBOR rate or such other LIBOR or EURIBOR rate that corresponds to the new periodic term of the loan, plus the Applicable Margin, plus certain other mandatory costs.
 
Under the Credit Facility, the Company irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees the performance by the Borrower and any additional borrowers of all of its obligations under the Credit Facility and agrees to immediately pay on demand by the facility agent any amount that the Borrower and any additional borrowers fail to pay when due under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility imposes various restrictions on the Company including a prohibition on fundamental changes to the Company or any of its material subsidiaries, including certain consolidations, mergers and sales and transfers of assets, and
 
limitations on the ability of the Company or any of its material subsidiaries to grant liens upon their property, assets or revenues. In addition, under the Credit Facility, the Company must maintain a minimum total debt to total capital ratio and a minimum consolidated net worth. The Credit Facility includes usual and customary events of default for facilities of this nature (with customary grace periods, as applicable) and provides that, upon the occurrence of certain events of default, including a change in control of the Company, certain changes in the composition of the Company's board of directors and a change in ownership of the Borrower or any additional borrower whereby it ceases to be a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, payment of all amounts payable under the Credit Facility, including the principal amount of, and accrued interest on, the loan may be accelerated. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain insolvency or bankruptcy related events of default, all amounts payable under the Credit Facility, including the principal amount of, and accrued interest on, the loan shall automatically become immediately due and payable.
 
ITEM 5.02 RETIREMENT OF DIRECTOR
 
Charles R. Shoemate announced his retirement from International Paper Company's Board of Directors effective December 31, 2005.
 
Mr. Shoemate has been a member of the Board of Directors since November 1, 1994.
 
 
(c)    Exhibit
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
AGREEMENT DATED NOVEMBER 21, 2005 US$800,000,000 CREDIT FACILITIES FOR INTERNATIONAL PAPER INVESTMENTS (LUXEMBOURG) S.ar.l. ARRANGED BY ABN AMRO BANK N.V., THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI LTD., NEW YORK BRANCH, BNP PARIBAS, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS LIMITED AND DEUTSCHE BANK AG, LONDON BRANCH WITH BNP PARIBAS, AS FACILITY AGENT
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
is dated 21 November 2005 (the )
THIS AGREEMENT
Agreement
 
BETWEEN:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
 
In this Agreement:
 
means a letter, substantially in the form of Schedule 9 (Form of Accession Agreement), with such amendments as the Facility Agent and the Guarantor may agree.
Accession Agreement
 
means any Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Guarantor which becomes a Borrower after the date of this Agreement.
Additional Borrower
 
means a Bookrunner, a Mandated Lead Arranger or the Facility Agent.
Administrative Party
 
means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
 
means the letter entered into between the Company and BNP Paribas, dated on or about the date of this Agreement and relating to the agency fee to be paid under Clause 24.1 (Facility Agent's fee)
Agency Fee Letter
 
means the letter entered into between the Company, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and BNP Paribas, dated on or about the date of this Agreement and setting out the arrangement fee to be paid under Clause 24.2 (Arrangement fee) and relating to the participation fee to be paid under Clause 24.3 (Participation fee).
Arrangement Fee Letter
 
means the period from and including the date of this Agreement to and including:
Availability Period
 
 
 
means the United States Bankruptcy Code 1978 as amended or any other United States Federal of State bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law.
Bankruptcy Code
 
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America (or any successor).
Board
 
means the Company or an Additional Borrower.
Borrower
 
means the amount (if any) which a Lender is entitled to receive under Clause 25.3 (Break Costs) as compensation if any part of a Loan or overdue amount is repaid or prepaid.
Break Costs
 
means a day (other than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in London, Paris and New York City and:
Business Day
 
 
 
means, as to any Person, the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under a lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to use) real and/or personal property which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as a capital lease on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP (including Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13 of the Financial Accounting Standards Board) and, for the purposes of this Agreement, the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalised amount thereof, determined in accordance with GAAP (including such Statement No. 13).
Capital Lease Obligations
 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
 
means:
Commitment
 
 
 
under a particular Facility to the extent not cancelled, transferred or reduced under this Agreement.
 
means a certificate substantially in the form of Schedule 7 (Form of Compliance Certificate) setting out, among other things, calculations of the financial covenants.
Compliance Certificate
 
means, as at any time, the sum of the following for the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis (without duplication) in accordance with GAAP:
Consolidated Net Worth
 
 
 
 
provided, however, the foregoing calculation shall not take into account any impairment of goodwill arising under FASB 142.
 
means, as to any Person, each Subsidiary of such Person (whether now existing or hereafter created or acquired) the financial statements of which shall be (or should have been) consolidated with the financial statements of such Person in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Subsidiary
 
means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. and have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
controlled
 
means:
Credit Document
 
 
 
and denote the lawful currency of the United States of America.
dollar
US$
 
of a Loan or part of a Loan means:
dollar Amount
 
 
 
 
means any and all Federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licences, agreements or other governmental restrictions relating to the environment or to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals, or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes into the environment including ambient air, surface water, ground water, or land, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport, or handling of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals, or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes.
Environmental Laws
 
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
 
means any corporation or trade or business which is a member of the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Code) as the Guarantor or is under common control (within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Code) with the Guarantor.
ERISA Affiliate
 
means for a Term of any Loan or overdue amount in euro:
EURIBOR
 
 
 
as of 11.00 a.m. (Brussels time) on the Rate Fixing Day for the offering of deposits in euro for a period comparable to that Term.
 
or  means the single currency of the Participating Member States.
euro
 
means an event specified as such in Clause 21 (Default).
Event of Default
 
means any Tax other than a Tax that is imposed on or calculated with reference to net income of a Finance Party in respect of any income imputed to such Finance Party on account of a Gross-Up Payment (as defined in Clause 12.2(c) (Tax gross-up)).
Excluded Taxes
 
means the Revolving Credit Facility or the Term Loan Facility.
Facility
 
means the office(s) notified by a Lender to the Facility Agent:
Facility Office
 
 
 
as the office(s) through which it will perform its obligations under this Agreement.
 
means the Arrangement Fee Letter, the Agency Fee Letter or any letter entered into by reference to this Agreement between one or more Administrative Parties and the Company setting out the amount of certain fees referred to in this Agreement.
Fee Letter
 
means:
Final Maturity Date
 
 
 
means:
Finance Document
 
 
 
 
 
 
means a Lender or an Administrative Party.
Finance Party
 
means generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with those which, in accordance with Clause 18.2 (Form of financial statements), are to be used in making the calculations for purposes of determining compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
GAAP
 
means the government of the United States of America, Luxembourg, the jurisdiction of incorporation of each Additional Borrower, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
 
means the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
Group
 
means a guarantee, an endorsement, a contingent agreement to purchase or to furnish funds for the payment or maintenance of, or otherwise to be or become contingently liable under or with respect to, the Indebtedness, other obligations, net worth, working capital or earnings of any Person, or a guarantee of the payment of dividends or other distributions upon the stock of any corporation, or an agreement to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, products, materials, supplies or services primarily for the purpose of enabling a debtor to make payment of his, her or its obligations or an agreement to assure a creditor against loss, and including causing a bank to open a letter of credit for the benefit of another Person, but excluding endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The terms and used as a verb shall have a correlative meaning.
Guarantee
Guarantee
Guaranteed
 
means LIBOR or EURIBOR.
IBOR
 
means:
Increased Cost
 
 
 
 
which is incurred or suffered by a Finance Party or any of its Affiliates but only to the extent attributable to that Finance Party having entered into any Finance Document or funding or performing its obligations under any Finance Document.
 
means, as to any Person:
Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means the confidential information package dated October 2005 prepared by the Mandated Lead Arrangers based on information received from the Guarantor for the purpose of providing information with regard to the Group in connection with this Agreement.
Information Package
 
means:
Lender
 
 
 
means for a Term of any Loan or overdue amount denominated in any currency other than euro:
LIBOR
 
 
 
as of 11.00 a.m. (London time) on the Rate Fixing Day for the offering of deposits in the currency of that Loan or overdue amount for a period comparable to that Term.
 
means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset. For the purposes of this Agreement, the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset which it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset.
Lien
 
means, unless otherwise stated in this Agreement, the principal amount of each borrowing under this Agreement or the principal amount outstanding of that borrowing.
Loan
 
means an Obligor incorporated in Luxembourg.
Luxembourg Obligor
 
means, at any time, Lenders:
Majority Lenders
 
 
 
 
means the percentage rate per annum calculated by the Facility Agent under Schedule 4 (Calculation of the Mandatory Cost).
Mandatory Cost
 
means the rate per annum calculated in accordance with Clause 9.3 (Margin adjustments).
Margin
 
means margin stock within the meaning of Regulations U and X.
Margin Stock
 
means a material adverse change in, or material adverse effect on the business, results of operations or financial condition of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
 
means, at any time, (a) the Company, (b) any Borrower, and (c) any Subsidiary of the Guarantor that has total assets equal to 5 per cent. or more of Consolidated Net Worth.
Material Subsidiaries
 
means Moody's Investors Service Limited or any successor to its rating business.
Moody's
 
means a multiemployer plan defined as such in Section 3(37) of ERISA to which contributions have been made by the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate and which is covered by Title IV of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
 
means the Company, a Borrower or the Guarantor.
Obligor
 
means the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Original Financial Statements
 
means the Company or the Guarantor.
Original Obligor
 
means a member state of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the euro as its lawful currency under the legislation of the European Community for Economic Monetary Union.
Participating Member State
 
means a party to this Agreement.
Party
 
means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
 
means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
 
means any employee benefit or other plan established or maintained by the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate and which is covered by Title IV of ERISA, other than a Multiemployer Plan.
Plan
 
means any event or condition which upon notice, expiry of any applicable grace period or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Potential Event of Default
 
means Indebtedness of the Guarantor or any Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or development of Project Assets; provided that (a) such Indebtedness is non-recourse to any other assets and (b) the aggregate principal amount of such Indebtedness for the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole may at no time exceed US$425,000,000.
Project Indebtedness
 
means:
Pro Rata Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purpose of subparagraph (iv) above, the Facility Agent will determine, in the case of a dispute whether the term in any case relates to a particular Facility.
 
means:
Rate Fixing Day
 
 
 
or such other day as the Facility Agent determines is generally treated as the rate fixing day by market practice in the relevant interbank market.
 
means the Facility Agent, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and Citibank International plc and any other bank or financial institution appointed as such by the Facility Agent under this Agreement.
Reference Banks
 
means, respectively, Regulations D, U and X of the Board, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
Regulations D, U and X
 
means the representations which are deemed to be repeated under Clause 17.21 (Times for making representations).
Repeating Representations
 
means a request for a Loan, substantially in the form of Schedule 3 (Form of Request).
Request
 
means:
Revolving Credit Commitment
 
 
 
to the extent not cancelled, transferred or reduced under this Agreement.
 
means the revolving credit facility made available under this Agreement.
Revolving Credit Facility
 
means a Loan under the Revolving Credit Facility and identified as such in its Request.
Revolving Credit Loan
 
means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or any successor to its rating business.
S&P
 
means:
Screen Rate
 
 
 
for the relevant currency and Term displayed on page 3740 or 3750 in respect of LIBOR and page 248 in respect of EURIBOR in each case of the Telerate screen. If the relevant page is replaced or the service ceases to be available, the Facility Agent (after consultation with the Company and the Lenders) may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate.
 
means, as to any Person, that, as of any date of determination, (a) the amount of the "present fair saleable value" of the assets of such Person shall, as of such date, exceed the amount of all "liabilities of such Person, contingent or otherwise", as of such date, as such terms are determined in accordance with applicable federal and state laws governing determinations of the insolvency of debtors, (b) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person shall, as of such date, be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the liability of such Person on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured; (c) such Person will not have, as of such date, an unreasonably small amount of capital with which to conduct its business, and (d) such Person shall be able to pay its debts as they mature. For purposes of this definition, (i)  means liability on a , and (ii)  means any (A) right to payment, whether or not such a right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured or (B) right to an equitable remedy for breach of performance if such breach gives rise to a right to payment, whether or not such right to an equitable remedy is reduced to judgment, fixed, contingent, matured or unmatured, disputed, undisputed, secured or unsecured.
Solvent
debt
claim
claim
 
means, as to any Person:
Subsidiary
 
 
 
means, at any time, Total Assets minus the sum of the items identified in paragraph (c) of the defined term Tangible Net Worth.
Tangible Assets
 
means, as at any time, the sum of the following for the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis (without duplication) in accordance with GAAP and based on the latest published audited consolidated balance sheet of the Guarantor:
Tangible Net Worth
 
 
 
 
and retained earnings) but in any event including goodwill, research and development costs, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and franchises, unamortized debt discount and expense, and any write up in the book value of assets resulting from a revaluation thereof subsequent to 30 September 2005 (other than any write-up, at the time of its acquisition, in the book value of any asset acquired subsequent to 30 September 2005).
 
means a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system is open for the settlement of payments in euro.
TARGET Day
 
means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any related penalty or interest).
Tax
 
means a deduction or withholding for or on account of Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.
Tax Deduction
 
means a payment made by an Obligor to a Finance Party in any way relating to a Tax Deduction or under any indemnity given by that Obligor in respect of Tax under any Finance Document.
Tax Payment
 
means each period determined under this Agreement by reference to which interest on a Loan or an overdue amount is calculated.
Term
 
means a Loan under the Term Loan Facility and identified as such in its Request.
Term Loan
 
means:
Term Loan Commitment
 
 
 
to the extent not cancelled, transferred or reduced under this Agreement.
 
means the term loan facility made available under this Agreement.
Term Loan Facility
 
means, at any time, the total assets of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at such time determined on a consolidated basis (without duplication) in accordance with GAAP.
Total Assets
 
means, at any date, Consolidated Net Worth Total Debt , each determined as of such date.
Total Capital
plus
 
means the aggregate of the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Total Commitments
 
means, at any time, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Indebtedness of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at such time determined on a consolidated basis (without duplication) in accordance with GAAP.
Total Debt
 
means the aggregate of the Term Loan Commitments of all the Lenders, being the total amount specified as such in Schedule 1 (Original Parties) at the date of this Agreement.
Total Term Loan Commitments
 
means the aggregate of the Revolving Credit Commitments of all the Lenders, being the total amount specified as such in Schedule 1 (Original Parties) at the date of this Agreement.
Total Revolving Credit Commitments
 
means a contract entered into for purely commercial purposes by a Finance Party with an Obligor which relates to its trading activities and which is not related to any banking business which is conducted between the contracting parties.
Trading Contract
 
means collectively, the transactions contemplated under this Agreement.
Transactions
 
means a certificate, substantially in the form of Schedule 5 (Form of Transfer Certificate), with such amendments as the Facility Agent may approve or reasonably require or any other form agreed between the Facility Agent and the Company.
Transfer Certificate
 
means the United Kingdom.
U.K.
 
means each date on which a Facility is utilised.
Utilisation Date
 
means, as to any Person, any Subsidiary of such Person all of the shares or ownership interests of which, other than (in the case of a corporation) directors' qualifying shares, are owned or controlled directly or indirectly by such Person.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this Agreement a reference to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this Agreement a reference to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Lenders make available to the Borrowers a term loan facility in an aggregate amount equal to the Total Term Loan Commitments.
 
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Lenders make available to the Borrowers a revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount equal to the Total Revolving Credit Commitments.
 
 
Unless all the Finance Parties agree otherwise:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Term Loan may only be used for general corporate purposes.
 
 
Each Revolving Credit Loan may only be used for general corporate and working capital purposes.
 
 
No Finance Party is bound to monitor or verify the utilisation of a Facility.
 
 
 
A Request may not be given until the Facility Agent has notified the Company and the Lenders that it has received all of the documents and evidence set out in Schedule 2 (Conditions precedent documents) in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent. The Facility Agent must give this notification to the Company and the Lenders promptly upon being so satisfied.
 
 
The obligations of each Lender to participate in any Loan are subject to the further conditions precedent that on both the date of the Request and the Utilisation Date for that Loan:
 
 
 
 
Unless the Facility Agent agrees, a Request may not be given if, as a result, there would be:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Request for a Loan will not be regarded as having been duly completed unless:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Only one Loan may be requested in a Request.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this Clause:
 
means the Facility Agent's spot rate of exchange for the purchase of the relevant currency in the London foreign exchange market with dollars as of 11.00 a.m. on a particular day.
Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange
 
means any currency (other than dollars) in which a Loan may be denominated under this Agreement.
Optional Currency
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Facility Agent must give notice to the Company to that effect promptly and in any event before 11.00 a.m. on that day.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is its dollar Amount.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The amount of the Term Loan in the new currency will be calculated by reference to its dollar Amount.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The obligation of each Lender under this Clause to re-advance its share of a Term Loan in a new currency or make any payment increasing the amount of a Loan in an Optional Currency is subject to the condition precedent that on the date of the relevant payment:
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent must notify the Lenders and the Company of the relevant dollar Amount (and the applicable Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange) promptly after they are ascertained.
 
 
 
Each Borrower must repay the Term Loans made to it in full on the Final Maturity Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agent not later than 11.00 a.m. on the third Business Day prior to the proposed prepayment). On the date for prepayment specified in that notice, the relevant Borrower shall prepay the Loan, or part of the Loan, identified to be prepaid in that notice.
 
 
 
The Commitments of each Lender under a Facility will be automatically cancelled at the close of business on the last day of the Availability Period for Loans under that Facility.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Company may, while the requirement continues, give notice to the Facility Agent requesting prepayment and cancellation in respect of that Lender.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which time payment shall be due in respect of the entire period throughout which the Increased Payment was incurred. However, if the Company does not receive notification of the Increased Payment within 90 days of the relevant Finance Party becoming aware of such Increased Payment being incurred, no Obligor is obliged to make any payment in respect of that Increased Payment (or any part of it which occurred more than 90 days before the Company was notified).
 
 
No amount of a Term Loan prepaid under this Agreement may subsequently be re-borrowed.
 
 
Any voluntary prepayment of a Revolving Credit Loan under Clause 8.3 (Voluntary prepayment) may be re-borrowed on the terms of this Agreement. Any other prepayment of a Revolving Credit Loan may not be re-borrowed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rate of interest on each Loan for each Term is the percentage rate per annum equal to the aggregate of the applicable:
 
 
 
 
 
Except where it is provided to the contrary in this Agreement, each Borrower must pay accrued interest on each Loan made to it on the last day of each Term and also, if the Term is longer than six months, on the dates falling at six-monthly intervals after the first day of that Term.
 
 
 
means Moody's, S&P or any other rating agency approved by the Majority Lenders and the Company.
Rating Agency
 
 
 
 
 
In the event that there is a split long-term credit rating from Moody's and S&P, the applicable Margin shall be (i) the Margin applicable to the higher of such ratings in the event such ratings are one level apart, (ii) the Margin applicable to the midpoint (if any) in the event such ratings are two or more levels apart or (iii) the Margin applicable to the higher of the two intermediate ratings in the event there is no midpoint rating.
 
If at any time the Guarantor does not have a long-term credit rating in effect with either Moody's or S&P (other than by reason of a change in the long-term credit rating system of Moody's or S&P or if either such rating agency ceases to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations), the Margin will be the highest applicable rate, being 0.60 per cent. per annum. If the long-term credit rating system of Moody's or S&P changes, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Guarantor (on its own behalf and on behalf of the Company) and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this provision to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Margin shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.
 
If at any time the Guarantor only has a long-term credit rating from one of Moody's or S&P, the Margin shall be calculated solely by reference to the long-term credit rating established by the rating agency that does have a long-term credit rating for the Guarantor then in effect.
 
If at any time the long-term credit rating of the Guarantor established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After the expiry of the first Term for that overdue amount, the rate on the overdue amount will be calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) above.
 
 
 
The Facility Agent must promptly notify each relevant Party of the determination of a rate of interest under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Company, on a Borrower's behalf, so requests a Term for a Term Loan will end on the same day as the current Term for any other Term Loan denominated in the same currency as that Term Loan. On the last day of those Terms, those Term Loans will be consolidated and treated as one Term Loan under the Term Loan Facility.
 
 
If a Term for a Loan would otherwise overrun the Final Maturity Date for that Loan, it will be shortened so that it ends on the Final Maturity Date for that Loan.
 
 
The Facility Agent and the Company may enter into such other arrangements as they may agree for the adjustment of Terms and the consolidation and/or splitting of Loans.
 
 
The Facility Agent must notify each relevant Party of the duration of each Term promptly after ascertaining its duration.
 
 
 
If IBOR is to be calculated by reference to the Reference Banks but a Reference Bank does not supply a rate by 12.00 p.m. (relevant local time) on a Rate Fixing Day, the applicable IBOR will, subject as provided below, be calculated on the basis of the rates of the remaining Reference Banks.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this Clause:
 
means:
Qualifying Lender
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means any Tax benefit, including any refund of Taxes (including interest received thereon), any credit against any Tax, any Tax deduction, and any relief from or remission for Tax (or its repayment).
Tax Credit
 
means a Lender which, on the date a payment of interest falls due under this Agreement, fulfils the conditions imposed by any double taxation agreement to which Luxembourg is a party for the payment to be made without a Tax Deduction.
Treaty Lender
 
has the meaning given to it in Section 7701(a)(30) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
US person
 
 
 
 
 
 
it must promptly notify the Facility Agent with a copy of such notification to the Company. The Facility Agent must then promptly notify the affected Parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an Obligor makes a Tax Payment and the relevant Finance Party (in its absolute discretion, acting reasonably) determines that:
 
 
 
the Finance Party must pay an amount to the Obligor which that Finance Party determines (in its absolute discretion, acting reasonably) will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-tax position as it would have been if the Tax Payment had not been required to be made by the Obligor.
 
 
The Company must pay and indemnify each Finance Party against any stamp duty, stamp duty land tax, registration or other similar Tax payable in connection with the entry into, performance or enforcement of any Finance Document, except for any such Tax payable in connection with the entry into a Transfer Certificate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at the date of this Agreement, each Lender confirms in respect of itself that it (or the Affiliate by which it is participating) is a Qualifying Lender and therefore no Tax Deductions are required to be made by the Original Obligors in respect of payments to be made by the Original Obligors under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
Except as provided below in this Clause, the Company must pay to a Finance Party the amount of any Increased Cost incurred by that Finance Party or any of its Affiliates as a result of:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company need not make any payment for an Increased Cost to the extent that the Increased Cost is:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
including transferring its rights and obligations under the Finance Documents to an Affiliate or changing its Facility Office.
 
 
means any additional payment which an Obligor is obliged to make which is referred to in any of subparagraphs (i) to (iii) of paragraph (a) above;
Increased Payment
 
means, in relation to an Increased Payment, a period of time which is reasonable in order to enable a Finance Party to give effect to any Relevant Step which has been agreed in accordance with paragraph (c)(i) below, such period beginning on the date upon which such Relevant Step was agreed; and
Reasonable Period
 
means any step agreed to by the Company in accordance with paragraph (c)(i) below for the purposes of mitigating any Increased Payment;
Relevant Step
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No term of this Agreement will:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless a Finance Document specifies that payments under it are to be made in another manner, all payments by a Party (other than the Facility Agent) under the Finance Documents must be made to the Facility Agent to its account at such office or bank:
 
 
 
as it may notify to that Party for this purpose by not less than five Business Days' prior notice.
 
 
Payments under the Finance Documents to the Facility Agent must be made for value on the due date at such times and in such funds as the Facility Agent may specify to the Party concerned as being customary at the time for the settlement of transactions in the relevant currency in the place for payment.
 
 
 
 
 
as it may notify to the Facility Agent for this purpose by not less than five Business Days' prior notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All payments made by an Obligor under the Finance Documents must be made without set-off or counterclaim.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Finance Document does not provide for when a particular payment is due, that payment will be due within ten days of demand by the relevant Finance Party.
 
 
 
The Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally:
 
 
 
 
 
This guarantee is a continuing guarantee and will extend to the ultimate balance of all sums payable by any Borrower under the Finance Documents, regardless of any intermediate payment or discharge in whole or in part.
 
 
 
 
 
The obligations of the Guarantor under this Clause will not be affected by any act, omission or thing which, but for this provision, would reduce, release or prejudice any of its obligations under this Clause (whether or not known to it or any Finance Party). This includes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor waives any right it may have of first requiring any Finance Party (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) to proceed against or enforce any other right or security or claim payment from any person before claiming from the Guarantor under this Clause.
 
 
Until all amounts which may be or become payable by the Obligors under the Finance Documents have been irrevocably paid in full, each Finance Party (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) may, without affecting the liability of the Guarantor under this Clause, and if it believes that such action is advisable due to the likelihood of the events set out in paragraph (f) or (g) of Clause 21 (Default) occurring in respect of an Obligor:
 
 
 
 
 
Unless:
 
 
 
the Guarantor will not, after a claim has been made or by virtue of any payment or performance by it under this Clause:
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor must hold in trust for (or, if a trust is not recognised in any jurisdiction, segregate from its other assets) and immediately pay or transfer to the Facility Agent for the Finance Parties any payment or distribution or benefit of security received by it contrary to this Clause or in accordance with any directions given by the Facility Agent under this Clause.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This guarantee is in addition to and is not in any way prejudiced by any other security now or subsequently held by any Finance Party.
 
 
 
The representations set out in this Clause are made by each Obligor or (if it so states) any one of them to each Finance Party.
 
 
Its:
 
 
 
 
are legal, valid and binding under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
liabilities, liabilities for taxes, unusual forward or long-term commitments or unrealised or anticipated losses from any unfavourable commitments, except as referred to or reflected or provided for in said balance sheets as at said dates. Since 30 September 2005, there has been no event or condition that could result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
As at the date of this Agreement, the actions, suits, legal or arbitral proceedings, or proceedings by or before any Governmental Authority, now pending or (to the knowledge of the Guarantor) threatened against the Guarantor and/or any of its Material Subsidiaries will not, in the opinion of the General Counsel of the Guarantor, result in imposition of liability or assessment against (including seizure of) property that would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
None of the execution and delivery of any Credit Document, the consummation of the transactions contemplated in any Credit Document and compliance with the terms and provisions of any Credit Document will conflict with or result in a breach of, or require any consent under, the charter or by-laws of each Obligor, or any applicable law or regulation, or any order, writ, injunction or decree of any Governmental Authority, or any agreement or instrument to which the Guarantor and/or any of its Material Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of them is subject, or constitute a default under any such agreement or instrument.
 
 
Each Obligor has all necessary corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each Credit Document to which it is a party; the execution, delivery and performance by each Obligor of each Credit Document to which it is a party have been duly authorised by all necessary corporate action on its part; and each Credit Document to which an Obligor is a party has been duly and validly executed and delivered by that Obligor and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of that Obligor, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by equitable principles or by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganisation, moratorium or similar laws relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally.
 
 
No authorisations, approvals or consents of, and no filings or registrations with, any Governmental Authority are necessary for the execution, delivery or performance by each Obligor of each Credit Document to which it is a party or for the validity or enforceability of each Credit Document.
 
 
The Guarantor and the ERISA Affiliates have fulfilled their respective obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan and are in compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code, and have not incurred any liability to the PBGC or any Plan or Multiemployer Plan (other than to make contributions in the ordinary course of business).
 
 
United States Federal income tax returns of the Guarantor have been examined and closed through the fiscal year of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries ended 31 December 1996. The Guarantor and its Subsidiaries have filed all United States Federal income tax returns and, in the case of a Borrower, all income tax returns in its jurisdiction of incorporation and all other material tax returns which are required to be filed by them and have paid all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries except for those being contested in good faith and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Guarantor and its Material Subsidiaries in respect of taxes and other governmental charges not yet due and payable are, in the opinion of the Guarantor, adequate. If the Guarantor is a member of an affiliated group of corporations filing consolidated returns for United States Federal income tax purposes, it is the "common Guarantor" of such group.
 
 
Neither the Guarantor nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
 
Neither the Guarantor nor any of its Subsidiaries is a "holding company", or an "affiliate" of a "holding company" or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company", within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended.
 
 
Schedule 8 (Existing Facilities) is a complete and correct list, as of the date of this Agreement, of each credit agreement, loan agreement, indenture, purchase agreement, guarantee or other arrangement providing for or otherwise relating to any Indebtedness or any extension of credit (or commitment for any extension of credit) to, or guarantee by, the Guarantor or any of its Material Subsidiaries, in each case to the extent the aggregate principal or face amount of any such credit agreement, loan agreement, indenture, purchase agreement, guarantee or other arrangement equals or exceeds (or may equal or exceed) US$150,000,000 and the aggregate principal or face amount outstanding or which may become outstanding under each such arrangement is correctly described in Schedule 8 (Existing Facilities).
 
 
 
The Guarantor and each of its Material Subsidiaries have obtained all permits, licenses and other authorisations required under all Environmental Laws, except to the extent failure to have any such permit, licence or authorisation could not in the aggregate reduce by more than 25 per cent. the annual tonnage capacity of the paper processing operations of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries. The Guarantor and each of its Material Subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such permits, licenses and authorisations, and are also in compliance with all other limitations, restrictions, conditions, standards, prohibitions, requirements, obligations, schedules and timetables contained in any applicable Environmental Law or in any regulation, code, plan, order, decree, judgment, injunction, notice or demand letter issued, entered, promulgated or approved thereunder, except to the extent failure to comply could not in the aggregate reduce by more than 25 per cent. the annual tonnage capacity of the paper processing operations of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
 
 
In the ordinary course of its business, the Guarantor conducts an ongoing review of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated liabilities and costs (including any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently or previously owned, any capital or operating expenditures required to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by law or as a condition of any licence, permit or contract, any related constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat, any costs or liabilities in connection with off-site disposal of wastes or hazardous substances, and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Guarantor has reasonably concluded that such associated liabilities and costs, including the costs of compliance with Environmental Laws, are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon each date on which this representation is either made or deemed to be repeated, after giving effect to the Transactions completed prior thereto or on that date, each Obligor on a stand-alone basis is Solvent as at that date.
 
 
Nothing has occurred since 30 September 2005 which the Majority Lenders or the Facility Agent could reasonably expect to have a material adverse change on the consolidated financial condition, operations, business or prospects taken as a whole of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
 
 
Upon each date on which this representation is either made or deemed to be repeated after giving effect to the Transactions completed prior thereto or on that date, the Company has no other external Indebtedness as at that date.
 
 
 
means each of:
Anti-Terrorism Law
 
 
 
 
 
has the meaning given to it in the United States Federal Power Act of 1920.
public utility
 
means any person listed:
Restricted Party
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor shall deliver to the Facility Agent on behalf of the Lenders (and upon receipt thereof the Facility Agent shall promptly deliver to the Lenders):
 
 
 
 
 
 
be delivered to the Lenders hereunder shall (unless otherwise disclosed to the Lenders at the time of delivery thereof in the manner described in paragraph (c) below) be prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a basis consistent with that used in the preparation of the latest financial statements supplied under this Agreement (which, until the first financial statements are supplied under Clause 18.1 (Financial Statements) shall mean the Original Financial Statements).
 
 
 
 
in either of which events such calculations shall be made on a basis consistent with those used in the preparation of the latest financial statements as to which such objection shall not have been made (which, if such objection is made in respect of the first financial statements delivered under Clause 18.1 (Financial Statements), shall mean the Original Financial Statements).
 
 
 
The Guarantor shall deliver to the Facility Agent on behalf of the Lenders (and upon receipt thereof the Facility Agent shall promptly deliver to the Lenders):
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor will furnish to the Facility Agent, at the time it furnishes each set of financial statements pursuant to Clause 18.1 (Financial Statements), a Compliance Certificate.
 
 
The Guarantor will promptly give to the Facility Agent (and upon receipt thereof the Facility Agent shall promptly give to the Lenders) notice of all legal or arbitral proceedings, and of all proceedings by or before any governmental or regulatory authority or agency, and any material development in respect of such legal or other proceedings, affecting the Guarantor or any of its Material Subsidiaries, except any proceeding which, if adversely determined, would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor will not at any time permit the ratio of Total Debt to Total Capital to exceed 0.60 to 1.
 
 
The Guarantor will not at any time permit Consolidated Net Worth to be less than US$9,000,000,000.
 
 
 
Each Obligor agrees that, so long as any of the Total Commitments are in effect and until payment in full of all Loans under this Agreement, all interest on such Loans and all other amounts payable by any Obligor under this Agreement:
 
 
The Guarantor will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor will maintain, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance underwritten by financially sound and reputable insurers, or self insurance (in accordance with normal industry practice) in such amounts and against such risks as ordinarily is carried or maintained by owners of like businesses and properties in similar circumstances.
 
 
The Guarantor will not, nor will it permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation or amalgamation, or liquidate, wind up or dissolve itself (or suffer any liquidation or dissolution). The Guarantor will not, and will not permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, convey, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of, in one transaction or a series of transactions, all or a substantial part of its business or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired (excluding any inventory or other assets sold or disposed of in the ordinary course of business). Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Clause:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor will not, nor will it permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
limited to, industrial revenue bonds and similar instruments) incurred for the purpose of refinancing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of constructing or improving such property;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and provided further that the sale, mortgage or other transfer of timber in connection with an arrangement under which the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries is obligated to cut such timber (or any portion thereof) in order to provide the transferee with a specified amount of money (however determined) shall not be deemed to create Indebtedness secured by a Lien hereunder.
 
 
Each Obligor must ensure that its payment obligations under the Finance Documents rank at least with all its other present and future unsecured payment obligations, except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to companies generally.
pari passu
 
 
To enable the ready and consistent determination of compliance with the financial covenants set out in Clause 19 (Financial covenants), the Guarantor will not change its financial year end from 31 December of each year, or the last days of the first three quarter years in each of its financial years from 31 March, 30 June and 30 September of each year, respectively, without giving prior notice of such change to each Lender and the Facility Agent.
 
 
If one or more of the following Events of Default shall occur and be continuing:
 
 
 
 
 
 
as of the time made or furnished; or
 
 
 
 
fall due, (iii) it suspends making payments on any of its debts or announces an intention to do so, (iv) by reason of actual or anticipated financial difficulties, it applies for, or is subject to, a composition, assignment or similar arrangement with any creditor or begins negotiations with any creditor for the rescheduling of any of its indebtedness, or (v) a moratorium is declared in respect of any class of its indebtedness; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THEREUPON:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as specifically provided in the Finance Documents, the Mandated Lead Arrangers have no obligations of any kind to any other Party in connection with any Finance Document.
 
 
Except as specifically provided in a Finance Document, nothing in the Finance Documents makes an Administrative Party a trustee or fiduciary for any other Party or any other person. No Administrative Party need hold in trust any moneys paid to it for a Party or be liable to account for interest on those moneys.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent may:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
it must promptly notify the other Finance Parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Administrative Party may refrain from doing anything (including disclosing any information) which might, in its opinion, constitute a breach of any law or regulation or be otherwise actionable at the suit of any person, and may do anything which, in its opinion, is necessary or desirable to comply with any law or regulation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Facility Agent requires, any amount payable to the Facility Agent by any Party under any indemnity or in respect of any costs or expenses incurred by the Facility Agent under the Finance Documents after the date of this Agreement may include the cost of using its management time or other resources and will be calculated on the basis of such reasonable daily or hourly rates as the Facility Agent may notify to the relevant Party. This is in addition to any amount in respect of fees or expenses paid or payable to the Facility Agent under any other term of the Finance Documents.
 
 
Where this Agreement specifies a minimum period of notice to be given to the Facility Agent, the Facility Agent may, at its discretion, accept a shorter notice period.
 
 
 
Accounts maintained by a Finance Party in connection with this Agreement are evidence of the matters to which they relate for the purpose of any litigation or arbitration proceedings.
prima facie
 
 
Any certification or determination by a Finance Party of a rate or amount under the Finance Documents will be, in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which it relates.
 
 
Any interest or fee accruing under this Agreement accrues from day to day and is calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and a year of 360 days or otherwise, depending on what the Facility Agent determines is market practice.
 
 
 
The Company must pay to the Facility Agent for its own account an agency fee in the manner agreed in the Agency Fee Letter.
 
 
The Company must pay an arrangement fee in the manner agreed in the Arrangement Fee Letter.
 
 
The Company must pay a participation fee in the manner agreed in the Arrangement Fee Letter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in a currency other than the currency in which the amount is expressed to be payable under the relevant Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's liability in each case includes any loss or expense on account of funds borrowed, contracted for or utilised to fund any amount payable under any Finance Document or any Loan, other than in respect of subparagraph (a)(iii) above, where the Company's liability is limited to the payment of Break Costs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exceeds
 
 
 
 
 
The Company must pay to each Administrative Party the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees, subject to the cap on legal fees as set out in the mandate letter between the Company and the Mandated Lead Arrangers dated 26 October 2005) reasonably incurred by it in connection with the negotiation, preparation, printing, execution and syndication of the Finance Documents.
 
 
The Company must pay to the Facility Agent the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees) reasonably incurred by it in connection with:
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt paragraph (a) of this Subclause does not apply to any Finance Document required under Clause 4.1 (Conditions precedent documents) or in respect of the first Request.
 
 
The Company must pay to each Finance Party the amount of all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable legal fees) incurred by it in connection with the successful enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under, any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
may only be made with the consent of all the Lenders.
 
 
 
 
If a change in any currency of a country occurs (including where there is more than one currency or currency unit recognised at the same time as the lawful currency of a country), the Finance Documents will be amended to the extent the Facility Agent (acting reasonably and after consultation with the Company) determines is necessary to reflect the change.
 
 
The rights of each Party under the Finance Documents:
 
 
 
 
Delay in exercising or non-exercise of any right is not a waiver of that right.
 
 
 
No Obligor may assign or transfer any of its rights and obligations under the Finance Documents without the prior consent of all the Lenders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means, for a Transfer Certificate, the later of:
Transfer Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent must execute as soon as reasonably practicable a Transfer Certificate delivered to it and which appears on its face to be in order.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and any representations or warranties implied by law are excluded.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If:
 
 
 
then, unless the assignment, transfer or change is made by a Lender to mitigate any circumstances giving rise to the Tax Payment, Increased Cost or a right to be prepaid and/or cancelled by reason of illegality, the relevant Obligor need only pay that Tax Payment or Increased Cost to the same extent that it would have been obliged to if no assignment, transfer or change had occurred.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Reference Bank (or, if a Reference Bank is not a Lender, the Lender of which it is an Affiliate) ceases to be a Lender, the Facility Agent must (in consultation with the Company) appoint another Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender to replace that Reference Bank.
 
 
 
 
 
In this event, the Lender and the Affiliate will participate in Loans in the manner provided for in sub-paragraph (ii) above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, before a participant may receive any confidential information, it must agree with the relevant Finance Party to keep that information confidential on the terms of paragraph (a) above.
 
 
 
Following the occurrence of an Event of Default which is outstanding, a Finance Party may set off any matured obligation owed to it by an Obligor under the Finance Documents (to the extent beneficially owned by that Finance Party) against any matured obligation owed by that Finance Party to that Obligor (other than amounts due by that Finance Party under a Trading Contract), regardless of the place of payment, booking branch or currency of either obligation. If the obligations are in different currencies, the Finance Party may convert either obligation at a market rate of exchange in its usual course of business for the purpose of the set-off.
 
 
 
If any amount owing by an Obligor under this Agreement to a Lender (the ) is discharged by payment, set-off or any other manner other than through the Facility Agent under this Agreement (a ), then:
recovering Lender
recovery
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
each Finance Party must reimburse the recovering Lender all or the appropriate portion of the redistribution paid to that Finance Party, together with interest for the period while it held the redistribution. In this event, the subrogation in paragraph (b) above will operate in reverse to the extent of the reimbursement.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other term of this Clause, a recovering Lender need not pay a redistribution to the extent that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a term of a Finance Document is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, that will not affect:
 
 
 
 
Each Finance Document may be executed in any number of counterparts. This has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of the Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless it is agreed to the contrary, any consent or agreement required under a Finance Document must be given in writing.
 
 
 
 
 
With a copy to:
 
David S. Stein, Esq,
International Paper Company,
400 Atlantic Street,
Stamford,
Connecticut 06921
Fax number: (203) 541-8208
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Lender hereby notifies each Obligor, that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law 26 October 2001)) (the ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Obligor, which information includes the name and address of each Obligor and other information that will allow such Lender to identify such Obligor in accordance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act
 
 
This Agreement is governed by English law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Party irrevocably and unconditionally:
 
 
 
 
 
EACH PARTY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY FINANCE DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY ANY FINANCE DOCUMENT (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS CLAUSE.
 
 
The Finance Documents contain the complete agreement between the Parties on the matters to which they are related and supersede all prior commitments, agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, on those matters.
 
has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
THIS AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Original Obligors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal opinions
 
Legal opinions of Allen & Overy LLP, under the laws of England, New York and Luxembourg, addressed to the Finance Parties.
 
Other documents and evidence
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if such item is required by a particular Lender.
 
 
 
Additional Borrowers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal opinions
 
 
 
Other documents and evidence
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if such item is required by a particular Lender; and
 
 
in each case, together with any additional documentation and evidence required by law or regulation at the time the Guarantor requests under paragraph (a) of Clause 28.6 (Additional Borrowers) that one of its Wholly Owned Subsidiaries accedes to this Agreement, such documentation and evidence being that set out in any list provided under paragraph (b) of Clause 28.6 (Additional Borrowers).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
where on the day of application of the formula E is calculated by the Facility Agent as being the average of the rates of charge under the fees rules supplied by the Reference Banks to the Facility Agent under paragraph (d) below and expressed in pounds per 1 million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Lender must promptly notify the Facility Agent of any change to the information supplied to it under this paragraph.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We refer to the Agreement. This is a Transfer Certificate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
None.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to Clause 18.1 (Financial Statements) of the Agreement.
 
, [name and title of the senior officer of the Guarantor], hereby certify that:
I
 
 
 
 
International Paper Company
Covenant Calculations
($ in millions)
Period Ending [ - ]
 
 
 
 
List of all debt instruments or facilities of International Paper Company and its Material Subsidiaries with principal or face amount of at least $150,000,000.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We refer to the Agreement. This is an Accession Agreement.
 
Unless otherwise defined in this Accession Agreement, capitalised terms in this Accession Agreement shall have the same meaning as that given to them in the Agreement.
 
[Proposed Borrower] of [address/registered office] agrees to become an Additional Borrower and to be bound by the terms of the Agreement as an Additional Borrower.
 
Clause 38 (Enforcement) of the Agreement will have effect as if set out in this Accession Agreement.
 
We confirm that [Proposed Borrower] is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Guarantor and will get the benefit of the guarantee under Clause 16 (Guarantee) of the Agreement.
 
This Accession Agreement is governed by English law.
 
 
 
Company
 
INTERNATIONAL PAPER INVESTMENTS (LUXEMBOURG) S. r.l.
 
 
International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l - Facility Agreement  Signature page
 
International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l - Facility Agreement  Signature page
 
International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l - Facility Agreement  Signature page
 
 
 
International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l - Facility Agreement  Signature page
 
International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l - Facility Agreement  Signature page
 
International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l - Facility Agreement  Signature page


