FILE:IP/IP-8K-20050719100359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 19, 2005, International Paper Company (the "Company"), issued a press release announcing its three-part transformation plan. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. Also, on July 19, 2005, John V. Faraci, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and Marianne M. Parrs, Chief Financial Officer, held a webcast and a conference call to discuss the Company's transformation plan. A copy of the slides presented at the webcast and discussed in the conference call is being furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
INTERNATIONAL PAPER
400 ATLANTIC STREET
STAMFORD, CT 06921
 
News Release
 
 
 International Paper (NYSE: IP) today announced a three-part transformation plan that will improve returns, strengthen the balance sheet and return cash to shareowners. The plan will include narrowing the company's portfolio to two key platform businesses; improving shareowner returns through mill realignments in those businesses and additional cost improvements; and exploring options to sell or spin-off other businesses.
STAMFORD, Conn., July 19, 2005
 
PORTFOLIO CHANGES  TWO KEY PLATFORM BUSINESSES:
 
International Paper will make portfolio changes to concentrate on two key platform businesses:
 
 
 
"We already have a strong global position in uncoated paper and have a growing worldwide platform in packaging. Our portfolio changes will allow us to better focus management attention and financial resources on these key businesses, which represent over 70 percent of our sales, and can achieve both cost-of-capital returns and profitable growth," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Faraci.
 
STRATEGIC OPTIONS TO BE EVALUATED:
 
To focus on the two key platform businesses, IP will evaluate strategic options for other businesses - including the potential sale or spin-off of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Considering our desire to develop strong businesses that can compete and grow globally, we have made choices about which businesses to focus our management and financial resources," Faraci said. "The businesses being evaluated for potential sale or spin-off are good businesses that may be better positioned with different ownership."
 
These businesses to be evaluated represent approximately 30 percent of 2004 sales (including intercompany sales) and $925 million, or 40 percent, of operating profits. The company expects the evaluation of these businesses to be complete by the first quarter of 2006. The evaluation of Carter Holt Harvey is expected to be complete by year-end 2005. IP will continue to operate the businesses to meet the needs of customers and generate earnings for shareowners.
 
USE OF PROCEEDS:
 
The company estimates after-tax proceeds from potential divestments will vary depending on the mix of businesses sold or spun-off, but anticipates the range could be approximately $8 billion to $10 billion. Approximately 40-50 percent of such net proceeds will be used to reduce debt - which is consistent with the company's goal of maintaining an investment grade credit rating. The company expects to use another 25-30 percent of net proceeds to return value to shareowners. In addition, IP will continue to evaluate selective investments to further strengthen the paper and packaging businesses in North America and globally. Such opportunities must meet IP's financial requirements.
 
KEY PLATFORM BUSINESSES:
 
Uncoated Papers
 
"In uncoated paper, we have significant opportunities to win for both customers and shareowners because we have low-cost facilities in the right places throughout the world and relationships with the right customers," said Faraci. "We have potential to improve our cost position in the United States, and we expect continued demand growth in Eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia."
 
IP is the world leader in uncoated paper with 6.6 million tons of capacity in the United States, Brazil and Europe and 2004 sales of approximately $5.8 billion. With 14 mills around the world, IP manufactures a wide variety of grades including cut-size paper, offset paper, envelope paper, forms, bristols, specialty paper, and market and fluff pulp. Major U.S. brands include Hammermill, Jet Print Photo, Postmark, and Carolina. Brands in Brazil include Chamex and Chambril, and European brands are Rey and Ballet.
 
Packaging
 
"Our U.S. corrugated container and containerboard business is a solid business which is earning the right to grow, and the changes planned will further strengthen this business," Faraci said. "We have strengthened our U.S. Industrial Packaging business through the acquisition of Box USA, and we have a strong European box business. We are a top producer of coated board, and we have advantages in terms of cost and customer base with a solid consumer packaging franchise," Faraci added.
 
IP's global packaging business includes 6.7 million tons of manufacturing capacity for containerboard and coated board, as well as 128 converting locations in the United States, Latin America, Europe and Asia.
 
In addition, the company's distribution business, xpedx, will continue to provide efficient supply chain management and will continue to focus on commercial printing, publishing, packaging, facility supplies, and re-distribution. "As a free-standing business, the No. 1 North American merchant, xpedx, brings unique solutions to its customer base through global relationships with key manufacturers," Faraci added.
 
PROFIT IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVE:
 
The transformation plan will improve IP's overall profitability with the more-focused asset base. Even with current high input costs and the smaller asset base going forward, the company plans to achieve average annual cost savings of about $400 million over the next several years, through a series of initiatives:
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Even in today's high input cost environment, this plan positions us to achieve better returns and improve our earnings," said Faraci. "The future of IP will be stronger businesses that are positioned globally to serve our customers and improve shareowner value."
 
REALIGNMENT OF U.S. MILL SYSTEM:
 
In both uncoated paper and packaging, IP will realign its U.S. mill system to increase operational efficiencies and redeploy capital to the best U.S. facilities. This will involve matching IP production with demand from its customers as well as reducing higher-cost capacity. The result will be increased productivity and lower costs without increasing total capacity.
 
"With this plan, IP will be focused on its strongest and best businesses with fewer, more profitable mills that are low-cost," said Faraci.
 
The realignment program is expected to be complete by the end of 2007 and will include the following:
 
Uncoated Paper
 
 
 
 
Packaging
 
 
 
 
 
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS:
 
As a part of IP's overall effort to become even more efficient and further streamline operations, the company will evaluate the possible relocation of its Stamford, Conn.-based headquarters to Memphis, Tenn. The evaluation is expected to be completed within the next 30 days.
 
INVESTOR WEBCAST:
 
International Paper will hold a webcast and conference call to discuss the transformation plan for the investment community at 11 a.m. (EDT) today. All interested parties are invited to listen to the webcast live via the company's Internet site at http://www.internationalpaper.com by clicking on the Investor button and going to the
 
Presentation section. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the Web site beginning at 1 p.m. today.
 
In addition, persons interested in listening to the conference call by telephone may dial in at 800-762-8774 within the United States or 480-629-9562 for international callers. Participants should call in no later than 10:45 a.m. (EDT) and ask to be connected to International Paper's Transformation Plan conference call. There will be a four-week replay of the call. For calls placed within the United States, please call 800-406-7325; for international callers, the number is 303-590-3030. Access code for the replay is 3347148.
 
ABOUT THE BUSINESSES TO BE EVALUATED:
 
is Australasia's largest forest products company, with significant interests in wood products, pulp, paper and packaging, supported by forests.
Carter Holt Harvey
 
IP's business serves customers in the catalog, magazine and retail insert markets. It has a combined annual capacity of approximately 2.2 million tons, and had 2004 sales of approximately $1.6 billion. Mills are at Bucksport and Androscoggin (Jay), Maine; Quinnesec, Mich.; Sartell, Minn.; and in Brazil at Arapoti, Parana (the Inpacel mill). The business employs approximately 3,000 people in the United States and 725 in Brazil. Also included in the evaluation of the coated papers business are the sawmill and approximately 123,550 acres of pine forestlands in Parana that are integrated with the Inpacel coated groundwood mill.
Coated and SC Papers
 
provides packaging systems serving the juice, dairy and specialty markets. Beverage Packaging provides integrated packaging systems from packaging material and pouring spouts to state-of-the-art filling machines. With approximately $600 million in 2004 sales, the business has manufacturing sites in the United States at Turlock, Calif.; Plant City, Fla.; Cedar Rapids, Iowa; Framingham, Mass.; Kalamazoo, Mich.; Raleigh, N.C. Internationally, the business owns plants or has an interest in sites in Canada, China, Latin America, South America, Israel, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia. The business employs approximately 1,700 people worldwide. The related assets to be evaluated with the Beverage Packaging Business include the Pine Bluff, Ark., mill which manufactures 460,000 tons per year of packaging board for juice and milk cartons and employs 1,200 people.
Beverage Packaging
 
from Roanoke Rapids are used in industrial and consumer bags and sacks, dunnage, roll wrap and many other specialty paper grades. The Kraft Papers Business at Roanoke Rapids, N.C., has an annual production capacity of 400,000 tons and employs 480 people.
Kraft Papers
 
is a global leader in pine-based chemicals, with 2004 sales of approximately $670 million. The business is headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla., and supplies high-value pine chemicals to the adhesives, inks and coatings, and
Arizona Chemical
 
oleochemicals markets. Manufacturing locations are in Panama City, Pensacola and Port St. Joe, Fla.; Savannah and Valdosta, Ga.; Dover, Ohio; Bedlington and Chester-le-Street, England; Greaker, Norway; Niort, France; Oulu, Finland; and Sandarne, Sweden. Arizona Chemical also has research and development capabilities in Savannah and Almere, the Netherlands. The business employs approximately 1,400 people.
 
IP's 6.8 million acres of U.S. are certified to the Sustainable Forestry Initiative and are located at Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Tennessee, New York, Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia. The Forest Resources business includes U.S. nurseries and orchards, which produce hardwood and pine tree seedlings, and mineral rights in various states throughout the country. The business employs more than 1,200 people. The company's U.S. forestlands revenue in 2004 was $900 million, which includes harvest and land sales.
forestlands
 
In Brazil, the company plans to retain 1.2 million acres of forestlands after the sale of the Inpacel-related forests, and it will also retain harvesting rights on the 850,000 acres it currently holds in Russia.
 
The business produces lumber, plywood, utility poles and engineered wood products used for residential and commercial construction throughout North America. The 2004 sales from the business were approximately $1.5 billion. The business employs more than 5,500 employees at manufacturing sites in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas and Virginia.
Wood Products
 
International Paper (http://www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) program, a system that ensures the perpetual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, air and water quality. Headquartered in the United States, International Paper has operations in over 40 countries and sells its products in more than 120 nations.
 
 
Statements in this press release that are not historical are forward-looking. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including but not limited to the strength of demand for the company's products and changes in overall demand, the effects of competition from foreign and domestic producers, the level of housing starts, changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations, the ability of the company to continue to realize anticipated cost savings, performance of the company's manufacturing
 
operations, results of legal proceedings, changes related to international economic conditions, changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro, economic conditions in developing countries, specifically Brazil and Russia, the current military action in Iraq and the war on terrorism. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Transformation
John V. Faraci
Chairman & CEO
Marianne M. Parrs
Executive VP & CFO
July 19, 2005
 
Forward-Looking Statements
These slides contain forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect management's current views and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including but not limited to, the ability of the company to accomplish its transformation plan and to realize anticipated cost savings, the demand and pricing for the company's products and changes in overall demand, the effects of competition from foreign and domestic producers, the level of housing starts, changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, changes in energy costs, unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations, performance of the company's manufacturing operations, results of legal proceedings, changes related to international economic conditions, specifically in Brazil, Russia and China, changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro, and the war on terrorism. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
2
 
Transformation
Significantly improve profitability
Improve the balance sheet
Return value to shareowners
Focused Global Paper and Packaging Company
3
 
Transformation Plan Overview
Key Platform Businesses
Uncoated Papers, Global Packaging, Global
Improve Profitability Improvement initiatives Reduce cost base of transformed company Realign U.S. mills
Selected Assets to Evaluate 50.5% stake in Carter Holt Harvey Coated Papers Beverage Pkg. Kraft Papers Arizona Chemical U.S. Forestlands - (selected) Wood Products
Priorities for Use of Proceeds
Maintain investment grade credit rating  repay debt
Return value to shareowners
Consider selective investments in best assets / new opportunities
4
 
IP Today
Diversified Paper & Forest Products Company
51% of 2004 Revenue
Paper
Uncoated Papers Uncoated free sheet Bristols
xpedx Distribution
Market Pulp
Coated Papers Coated groundwood Coated free sheet
28% of 2004 Revenue
Packaging
Industrial Packaging
Containerboard
Corrugated boxes
Kraft paper
Consumer Packaging
Coated board
Beverage pkg.
Shorewood
Foodservice
21% of 2004 Revenue
Forest Products
Forest Resources
Tree farming
Wood Products
Lumber
Plywood
Carter Holt Harvey
Forest products Arizona Chemical
5
 
The Case for Transformation
The world and our business has changed and IP's strategy has changed with it
Will not wait for the market cycle to improve  must take new steps now
6
 
Transformation Plan
Today
Diversified N. American Paper and Forest Products Company
Narrow IP's focus to key platform businesses
Improve profitability of key platform businesses
Pursue options for selected assets
Future
Focused Global Paper and Packaging Company
Improved balance sheet Returning value to shareowners Earning cost of capital returns
7
 
Transformation Plan Overview
Key platform businesses
Key Platform Businesses
Uncoated Papers, Global
Packaging, Global
Improve Profitability Improvement initiatives Reduce cost base of transformed company Realign U.S. mills
Selected Assets to Evaluate 50.5% stake in Carter Holt Harvey Coated Papers Beverage Pkg. Kraft Papers Arizona Chemical U.S. Forestlands - (selected) Wood Products
Priorities for Use of Proceeds
Maintain investment grade credit rating  repay debt
Return value to shareowners
Consider selective investments in best assets / new opportunities
8
 
Uncoated Papers
IP's distinct market advantages
Low cost producers can earn cost of capital returns Best ROS in industry segment - U.S., Europe and Brazil Significant potential
Cost improvement in U.S.
Demand growth in E. Europe, Latin America and Asia
IP is the largest, best positioned global producer with distinct market advantages
Superior access to markets
Strong positions with global customers
Product development opportunities
Supply chain efficiencies
9
 
Uncoated Papers
Leader in uncoated paper
U.S. 8 mills 4.8 MM tpy
W. Europe 3 mills 600,000 tpy
E. Europe 2 mills 700,000 tpy
2004 Results*
$5.8 B revenue 14 paper mills
6.6 MM tpy
Brazil 1 mill 500,000 tpy
Uncoated papers mill
* Includes Market Pulp revenues ($660MM) but excludes Fine Papers ($165MM) 10
 
Distribution - xpedx
Key channel to market for paper & packaging
#1 North American merchant with synergy and supply chain opportunities with IP's paper and packaging segments
Printing Papers 60%
Packaging 20%
Facility Supplies 15%
Graphics 5%
xpedx 2004 sales revenue by category
xpedx represents
35% of IP's total merchant sales
15% of IP's total uncoated paper sales
11
 
Packaging
Global platform in packaging
Strong U.S. industrial packaging and European corrugated box businesses
A top global producer of coated board
Global packaging customers
12
 
U.S. Industrial Packaging
Strong businesses
2004 Results*
$3.3 B revenue 70 box plants 8 board mills
4.6 MM tpy
Corrugated box plant Containerboard mill
* Excludes Specialty Papers revenues ($680MM)
13
 
International Container
Strong business
Europe 25 box plants 2 recycled board mills
Asia 6 box plants
Latin America 1 box plant
2004 Results $920 MM revenue 32 box plants 2 recycled board mills
Corrugated box plant Recycled board mill
14
 
Consumer Packaging
Global customers and differentiated products
North America 3 coated board mills 1.4 MM tpy
Eastern Europe** 2 coated board machines 240,000 tpy
2004 Results*
$1.7 B revenue 27 converting plants 5 mills producing coated board
1.6 MM tpy
Converting plant Coated board mill
* Excludes Beverage Packaging plants and business revenues ($600MM). ** E. European coated board revenues included in Uncoated Papers segment.
15
 
Transformation Plan Overview
Improve profitability
Key Platform Businesses
Uncoated Papers, Global Packaging, Global
Improve Profitability Improvement initiatives Reduce cost base of transformed company Realign U.S. mills
Selected Assets to Evaluate 50.5% stake in Carter Holt Harvey Coated Papers Beverage Pkg. Kraft Papers Arizona Chemical U.S. Forestlands - (selected) Wood Products
Priorities for Use of Proceeds
Maintain investment grade credit rating  repay debt
Return value to shareowners
Consider selective investments in best assets / new opportunities
16
 
Improve Profitability
Initiatives
Improvement initiatives on more focused asset base
Manufacturing excellence Supply chain Lower S&A
Mix improvements
Targeted customer segments (volume) U.S. mill realignment
Targeting $400 MM average annual savings
Assumes no change in input costs from current levels
17
 
Improve Profitability
Realign U.S. mill system
Improve profitability of U.S. mill system without increasing capacity
Next Steps
Transform high cost uncoated paper mill into low cost linerboard mill (Pensacola, FL) Close 1 small medium mill (Ft. Madison, IA)
Evaluate Options
Downsize 1 small uncoated paper mill (Bastrop, LA) Close / sell 2 small medium mills (Terre Haute, IN & Groveton, NH) Close 1 small linerboard mill (Pineville, LA) Selective investments in low cost uncoated paper and containerboard mills
18
 
Improve Profitability
Realign U.S. mill system - Uncoated Papers
Rationalized 1 million tons of uncoated paper capacity 2000- 2003 Indefinitely shut three uncoated paper machines removing 430K tpy of capacity in 1H'05
Next Steps
Convert Pensacola, FL mill to linerboard removing 300K tpy of uncoated paper capacity in 2006/2007
Evaluate Options
Downsize Bastrop, LA mill removing up to 240K tpy of uncoated paper capacity Consider selective investment in low cost uncoated paper mills
19
 
Improve Profitability
Realign U.S. mill system - Uncoated Papers
Improving IP's uncoated paper machines position on global cost curve
2004 Cash Cost Per Ton ($)
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900
0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000
Over 70% of IP's uncoated paper machines are in the first or second global cost quartile
Androscoggin PM1*
Pensacola PM3*
Louisiana PM3*
Pensacola PM5**
* Indefinitely shut in 1H'05
** To be converted to linerboard in 2007
Cumulative Global Capacity (000 short tons)
Data from Jaakko Poyry CostTrac Model and IP Data for 4Q 2004
20
 
Improve Profitability
Realign U.S. mill system - Containerboard
Next Steps
Convert Pensacola, FL mill to lightweight linerboard adding 500K tpy of high-value capacity in 2006/2007 - Close 100K tpy of medium capacity at Ft. Madison, Iowa .
Evaluate Options
Close Pineville, LA mill removing 400K tpy of linerboard capacity Close / Sell Terre Haute, IN and Groveton, NH medium mills (260K tpy) No net increase in capacity
21
 
Improve Profitability
Realign U.S. mill system summary
Targeted results of U.S. mill realignment:
Fewer, larger, lower-cost, more profitable mills
Lowest cost and able to run at full capacity Mill system will be sized to match IP capacity to our customer demand
22
 
Transformation Plan Overview
Selected assets to evaluate
Key Platform Businesses
Uncoated Papers, Global Packaging, Global
Improve Profitability Improvement initiatives Reduce cost base of transformed company Realign U.S. mills
Selected Assets to Evaluate 50.5% stake in Carter Holt Harvey Coated Papers Beverage Pkg. Kraft Papers Arizona Chemical U.S. Forestlands - (selected) Wood Products
Priorities for Use of Proceeds
Maintain investment grade credit rating  repay debt
Return value to shareowners
Consider selective investments in best assets / new opportunities
23
 
Focus on Uncoated Papers & Packaging
Pursue strategic options  Carter Holt Harvey
50.5% stake in Carter Holt Harvey
2004 Results $2.2 B revenue 4 paper mills
1.1 MM tpy of linerboard & pulp
29 wood products plants
785,000 acres $100 MM op. profit $210 MM D&A $3.3 B capital employed
Carter Holt Harvey is Australasia's leading forest products company, with significant interests in wood products, pulp, paper and packaging, supported by forests
24
 
Focus on Uncoated Papers & Packaging
Pursue strategic options  Coated & SC Paper
Coated & SC Paper*
2004 Results $1.6 B revenue 5 coated paper mills2.2 MM tpy $5 MM op. profit $140 MM D&A $3.0 B capital employed
U.S. 4 mills 2.0 MM tpy
Bucksport, ME
Jay, ME
Quinnesec, MI
Sartell, MN
Pine Bluff, AR
Inpacel, Brazil
Brazil 1 mill 200,000 tpy
* Includes coated paper machine at Pine Bluff, AR mill.
Coated paper mill Coated paper machine
25
 
Focus on Uncoated Papers & Packaging
Pursue strategic options  Beverage Pkg.
Beverage Pkg.*
2004 Results $0.9 B revenue 17 plants 1 mill  450K tpy $40 MM op. profit $35 MM D&A $480 MM capital employed
Pine Bluff, AR
Converting plant
Liquid packaging board mill
* Includes Pine Bluff, AR liquid packaging board mill
26
 
Focus on Uncoated Papers & Packaging
Pursue strategic options  Kraft Papers
Kraft Papers*
2004 Results $160 MM revenue 1 mill  400K tpy Kraft paper ($5) MM op. profit $17 MM D&A $240 MM capital employed
Roanoke Rapids, NC
Kraft paper mill
* Includes Roanoke Rapids Kraft paper mill.
27
 
Focus on Uncoated Papers & Packaging
Pursue strategic options  Arizona Chemical
W. Europe 6 plants
U.S. 6 plants
Arizona Chemical
2004 Results $0.7 B revenue 12 plants $40 MM op. profit $25 D&A $320 MM capital employed
Converting plant
28
 
Focus on Uncoated Papers & Packaging
Pursue strategic options  Forest Products
Great Lakes 0.5 MM acres
Northeast 0.3 MM acres
South 6.0 MM acres
Forest Resources
2004 Results $0.9 B revenue 6.8 MM acres $540 MM op. profit $60 MM COTH $2.5 B capital employed
Wood Products
2004 Results $1.5 B revenue 25 plants $250 MM op. profit $50 MM D&A $0.8 B capital employed
Wood products plant Forestlands
29
 
Focus on Uncoated Papers & Packaging
Pursue strategic options for selected assets
Selected assets contribution to 2004 results
100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
Business Segment Capital Employed Business Segment Sales Operating Profit
Key Businesses
Forest Products
Other selected assets
20%
10%
30%
20%
15%
35%
5%
35%
40%
30
 
Transformation Plan Overview
Priorities for use of proceeds
Key Platform Businesses
Uncoated Papers, Global Packaging, Global
Improve Profitability Improvement initiatives Reduce cost base of transformed company Realign U.S. mills
Selected Assets to Evaluate 50.5% stake in Carter Holt Harvey Coated Papers Beverage Pkg. Kraft Papers Arizona Chemical U.S. Forestlands - (selected) Wood Products
Priorities for Use of Proceeds
Maintain investment grade credit rating  repay debt
Return value to shareowners
Consider selective investments in best assets / new opportunities
31
 
Priorities for Use of Proceeds
Asset sales after-tax proceeds are anticipated to be in the range of $8-10 B, depending on the mix of businesses sold or spun off Priorities for use of asset sales proceeds:
1. Maintain investment grade credit rating  repay debt beyond target of $12 B (40-50%) 2. Returning value to shareowners (25-30%) 3. Selective reinvestment to be considered (20-25%)
32
 
Transformation Timeline
Carter Holt Harvey
Coated & SC Papers (incl. Inpacel mill)
Beverage Packaging (incl. Pine Bluff mill)
Arizona Chemical
Kraft Papers (incl. Roanoke Rapids mill)
Selected forestlands and related wood products business
U.S. mill realignment
Expect to substantially complete transformation in two years
1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q
2005 2006 2007
33
 
IP Going Forward
More focused Improved profitability Higher earnings per share Less debt Improved return on investment
34
 
Summary
Executing transformational portfolio choices
Improving our key platform businesses Strengthening the balance sheet Returning value to shareowners
35
 
36
 
Q & A
37


