FILE:IP/IP-8K-20051215170826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 15, 2005, Robert M. Amen, President of International Paper Company, has announced his decision to retire from the Company after a brief transition period.
 
A copy of the Company's press release relating to this announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On December 13, 2005, Mr. Alberto Weisser, who had been elected a director of the Company on June 6, 2005, was appointed as a member of the Audit and Finance Committee and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
On December 13, 2005, Mr. William G. Walter, was appointed as Chairman of the Management Development and Compensation Committee and a member of the Executive Committee, effective January 1, 2006, following the retirement of Mr. Charles R. Shoemate on December 31, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE OF INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
DATED DECEMBER 15, 2005
 
INTERNATIONAL PAPER PLAZA
400 ATLANTIC STREET
STAMFORD, CT 06921
 
News Release
 
 
 
 International Paper (NYSE: IP) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Faraci said today that Rob Amen, president, has announced his decision to retire from the company after a brief transition period.
STAMFORD, Conn.  Dec. 15, 2005
 
Amen has worked for International Paper for 26 years in a number of capacities, including assignments in many of the company's businesses. "Rob has been a friend and colleague and we will miss having him as part of our senior leadership team," Faraci said. "Rob has played a significant role in developing IP's global strategy and, more recently, in helping us shape our transformation strategy. I thank him for his years of outstanding service to the company and wish him every success in the future."
 
Commenting on his decision to leave, Amen said, "I feel especially good about the people of IP and my role in helping them grow. Indeed, this past year has been enormously exciting and I'm confident IP is on a path to success. After a lot of thought, I concluded this was the right time for me to pursue my longer term goal of leading a company. I will genuinely miss my colleagues, but look forward to watching IP's future success."
 
Headquartered in the United States, International Paper (http://www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) program, a system that ensures the continual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, air and water quality.
 


