FILE:IP/IP-8K-20051108114438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K/A filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 8, 2005, International Paper issued a press release announcing that its third-quarter 2005 earnings were being revised from the earnings press release issued October 25, 2005, due to changes in income tax provisions and after-tax amounts, primarily related to the sale of Carter Holt Harvey shares. By this amendment to the Form 8-K, International Paper Company hereby amends the information contained in the October 25, 2005 press release and accompanying slides.
 
The revisions resulted in:
 
 
 
 
 
The revisions also impacted the classification of earnings from continuing operations and earnings from discontinued operations in periods prior to the 2005 third quarter. There were no changes to the previously announced sales and operating profit by industry segment.
 
The income tax calculations were corrected in connection with the company's routine internal control procedures. The adjustments included:
 
 
 
 
 
Final operating results for all periods will be reflected in the Company's Form 10-Q for the third quarter, which is anticipated to be filed with the SEC today.
 
A copy of the Company's November 8, 2005 press release, together with certain corrected slides from the Company's October 25, 2005 webcast, are being furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K/A.
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
News Release
 
 
 
 International Paper (NYSE: IP) today announced that its third-quarter 2005 earnings are being revised from the earnings press release issued Oct. 25 due to changes in income tax provisions and after-tax amounts, primarily related to the sale of Carter Holt Harvey shares.
STAMFORD, Conn.  Nov. 8, 2005
 
The revisions resulted in a $20 million decrease in third-quarter net earnings from $1,043 million ($2.07 per share) to $1,023 million ($2.03 per share) and a $23 million decrease in third quarter earnings from continuing operations and before special items from $162 million ($.33 per share) to $139 million ($0.29 per share). The revisions also impacted the classification of earnings from continuing operations and earnings from discontinued operations in periods prior to the 2005 third quarter. There were no changes to the previously announced sales and operating profit by industry segment.
 
The income tax calculations were corrected in connection with the company's routine internal control procedures, and will be detailed in an amended Form 8-K (Form 8-K/A) to be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission today. Final operating results for all periods will be reflected in the company's Form 10-Q for the third quarter when filed. In addition, the complete, revised earnings press release is available at www.internationalpaper.com, by clicking on the "News Releases" link under the "Investors" tab.
The impact of the revisions for the three and nine months ended Sept. 30, 2005, is summarized in the following table.
 
 
Headquartered in the United States, International Paper (http://www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) program, a system that ensures the continual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, air and water quality.
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current views and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ relate to (i) market and economic factors, including changes in the cost or availability of raw materials and energy, competition, demand and pricing for the Company's products, the level of housing starts, changes in international economic conditions, specifically in Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, changes in currency exchange rates, changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, pension and healthcare costs and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, (ii) the Company's transformation plan, including the ability to accomplish the transformation plan, the impact of the plan on the Company's relationship with its employees, customers and vendors and the ability to realize anticipated profit improvement from the plan, and (iii) results of legal proceedings and compliance costs, including unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations and the uncertainty of the costs and other effects of pending litigation. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.



