FILE:IP/IP-8K-20050104151413.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
ITEM 2.01 COMPLETION OF ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS
Maine
        On December 31, 2004, International Paper Company (the "Company") announced the completion of the sale of its forestlands in Maine and New Hampshire to GMO Renewable Resources, LLC, a private investment management company, for approximately $250 million.
        A copy of the Company's press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Weldwood
        On January 3, 2005, the Company announced it had completed the sale of its wholly owned subsidiary, Weldwood of Canada Limited, (the "Transaction") to West Fraser Timber Co. Ltd. ("West Fraser") for C$1.23 billion (approximately U.S.$1 billion). The Company's net cash proceeds received from the sale, including closing adjustments, were approximately U.S.$1.1 billion. A copy of the Company's press release relating to completion of the Transaction is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
      PRESS RELEASE OF INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY DATED DECEMBER 31, 2004
News Release
 International Paper (NYSE: IP) announced today it has completed the sale of 1.1 million acres of forestlands in Maine and New Hampshire to GMO Renewable Resources, LLC, (GMORR) a private forest investment management company, for approximately $250 million.
Stamford, Conn.  Dec. 31, 2004
International Paper and GMORR have agreed to a long-term wood fiber supply agreement to continue the flow of wood fiber to IP's Maine paper mills in Jay and Bucksport. The companies have also agreed to a long-term management contract by which IP's subsidiary Sustainable Forest Technologies, Inc. will provide forest management services, including third-party certification to the Sustainable Forestry Initiative Standard.
"We are pleased to complete this sale, which will allow us to achieve superior value for our forestlands, maintain our ability to provide for the wood fiber needs of our local mills and continue to assure recreational use and conservation of the land for all who enjoy the outdoors," said George O'Brien, IP's senior vice president of Forest Products.
GMORR plans to continue International Paper's long-standing practice of responsible public recreational use of these forestlands for hunting, fishing, snowmobiling and other traditional outdoor activities. The management of the land base will continue with the same or very similar rules and regulations on responsible public use that are in place today. GMORR also plans to continue the practice of cabin site leasing for the recreational lease holders on these lands and will evaluate the recreational programs on a regular basis.
Sustainable Forest Technologies, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of International Paper, is a forest management consulting group that works with family forest owners and institutional forest management investors to implement profitable sustainable forestry practices. SFT professionals provide a full range of forest management-related services.
International Paper (http://www.internationalpaper.com) businesses include paper, packaging and forest products. As one of the largest private landowners in the world, IP professional foresters and wildlife biologists manage the woods with great care in compliance with the rigorous standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative program. The SFI program is an independent certification system that ensures the perpetual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting biodiversity, wildlife, plants, soil, water and air quality. In the U.S. alone, IP protects more than 1.5 million acres of unique and environmentally important habitat on its forestlands through conservation agreements and land sales to environmental groups. And, the company has a long-standing policy of using wood from endangered forests. Headquartered in the United States, IP has operations in over 40 countries and sells its products in more than 120 nations.
no
Statements in this news release that are not historical are forward-looking. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including but not limited to, the strength of demand for the company's products and changes in overall demand, the effects of competition from foreign and domestic producers, changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations, the ability of the company to continue to realize anticipated cost savings, performance of the company's manufacturing operations, results of legal proceedings, changes related to international economic conditions and changes in currency exchange rates. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.

EXHIBIT 99.2
      PRESS RELEASE OF INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY DATED JANUARY 3, 2005
News Release
- International Paper (NYSE: IP) announced it has completed the sale of its Weldwood of Canada Limited subsidiary to West Fraser Timber Co., Ltd. (TSE: WFT) of Vancouver, Canada, for C. $ 1.23 billion (approximately U.S. $1 billion). International Paper's net cash proceeds received from the sale, including closing adjustments, were approximately U.S. $1.1 billion. The transaction was completed Friday, Dec. 31, 2004.
Stamford, Conn. - Jan. 3, 2005
While the loss on the sale, previously recorded in discontinued operations during the 2004 third quarter, is subject to post-closing adjustments, it is currently anticipated that the loss will be approximately 10% lower than the $795 million losspreviously estimated at Sept. 30, 2004.
The sale includes eight wholly owned and four joint venture mills in British Columbia and Alberta, Canada, manufacturing lumber, plywood, laminated veneer lumber, treated wood products and northern bleached softwood kraft pulp. Weldwood also manages 8 million acres of Crown land under a variety of long-term provincial government agreements and employs more than 3,000 people.
International Paper (http://www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative program, a system that ensures the perpetual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting biodiversity, wildlife, plants, soil, water and air quality. Headquartered in the United States, IP has operations in over 40 countries and sells its products in more than 120 nations.
Statements in this news release that are not historical are forward-looking. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including but not limited to, the strength of demand for the company's products and changes in overall demand, the effects of competition from foreign and domestic producers, changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations, the ability of the company to continue to realize anticipated cost savings, performance of the company's manufacturing operations, results of legal proceedings, changes related to international economic conditions and changes in currency exchange rates. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.

EXHIBIT 99.3
       AGREEMENT DATED DECEMBER 19, 2004, AMENDING CERTAIN TERMS OF THE ACQUISITION AGREEMENT DATED JULY 21, 2004, BETWEEN INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY AND WEST FRASER TIMBER CO. LTD.
December 19, 2004
West Fraser Timber Co. Ltd.1000-1100 Melville Street Vancouver, British Columbia
Dear Sirs:
        We are writing this letter to set out our understanding with respect to certain amendments to the Acquisition Agreement. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this letter agreement have the meanings given to them in the Acquisition Agreement. By signing this letter agreement, each of the Parties agrees, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained in the Acquisition Agreement and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, that:
        Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing a copy of this letter and returning it by electronic transmission to the undersigned ().
cato.ealy@ipaper.com
Acknowledged and agreed this 19th day of December, 2004.
1.     2.2(a) of the Acquisition Agreement shall be deleted and replaced with the following:
2.     2.2(c)(xii) of the Acquisition Agreement shall be deleted and replaced with the following:
3.     2.3(a) of the Acquisition Agreement shall be deleted and replaced with the following:
        Payment of Purchase Price
        Closing Date Payment
         the undersigned unconditionally promises to pay ON DEMAND to International Paper Company ("IP") by way of wire transfer to such bank account as has been designated by IP prior to the date on which this promissory note has been delivered, the principal amount of $180,150,000 in lawful money of Canadawith interest calculated thereon from the date of this promissory note on the daily balance of such sum, both before and after demand, default and judgment, at a nominal rate per annum of 5.56% and interest on overdue interest payable at the same time, place and rate.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
        The amount owing under this promissory note may be paid by the undersigned to IP at any time before a demand for payment is made. If payment of the principal amount is received by IP on the date of this Promissory Note no interest will be payable.
        The undersigned waives presentment for payment, notice of dishonour, protest and notice of protest in respect of this promissory note.
        This promissory note shall enure to the benefit of IP and its successors and assigns and shall be binding on the undersigned and its successors and assigns.


