FILE:IP/IP-8K-20050425170251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
 
On April 25, 2005, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, John V. Faraci, announced that Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Christopher P. Liddell, has resigned effective May 9, 2005. The Company also announced that Marianne M. Parrs, Executive Vice President, will serve as chief financial officer until a permanent successor is named.
 
A copy of the Company's press release relating to this announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release of International Paper Company dated April 25, 2005.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1:    Press Release of International Paper Company, dated April 25, 2005.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE OF INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
DATED APRIL 25, 2005
 
 
INTERNATIONAL PAPER PLAZA
400 ATLANTIC STREET
STAMFORD, CT 06921
 
News Release
 
 
 
 April 25, 2005  International Paper (NYSE:IP) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John V. Faraci today announced that Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Christopher P. Liddell has resigned from the company and will be joining Microsoft Corp. as its chief financial officer, effective May 9, 2005.
STAMFORD, Conn.
 
Liddell has held leadership positions in International Paper and its New Zealand affiliate, Carter Holt Harvey, for the past ten years. "Chris has played a pivotal role as the chief executive officer of Carter Holt Harvey, and more recently, as the chief financial officer of International Paper. We will very much miss having Chris on our leadership team, but this is a great opportunity for him. We thank Chris for all of the outstanding contributions he has made to our company and congratulate him on his new role," Faraci said.
 
Faraci also announced that Marianne M. Parrs, executive vice president, International Paper, will serve as chief financial officer until a permanent successor to Liddell is named. Parrs, who will retain her current responsibilities as executive vice president, has been with International Paper for 30 years in a variety of roles. She has in-depth business and financial expertise, including four years as the company's chief financial officer. "I am confident that Marianne will provide outstanding leadership to the finance organization during this transition period," Faraci said.
 
International Paper (http://www.internationalpaper.com) is the world's largest paper and forest products company. Businesses include paper, packaging, and forest products. As one of the largest private forest landowners in the world, the company manages its forests under the principles of the (SFI) program, a system that ensures the continual planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, air and water quality. Headquartered in the United States, International Paper has operations in over 40 countries and sells its products in more than 120 nations.
Sustainable Forestry Initiative
 


