FILE:IP/IP-8K-20061107162136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On November 3, 2006, the Company completed its previously announced sale of approximately 4.2 million acres of forestlands located across the southern U.S. and Michigan to an investor group led by Resource Management Service, LLC. The purchase price is approximately $4.96 billion, approximately $1.04 billion was paid in cash and $3.92 billion in promissory notes. On November 3, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of this sale. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
On October 30, 2006, the Company completed its previously announced sale of approximately 900,000 acres of forestlands in Louisiana, Texas and Arkansas to an investor group led by TimberStar, a subsidiary of iStar Financial Inc. The purchase price for this transaction was approximately $1.13 billion, approximately $330 million was paid in cash and $800 million in promissory notes. On October 30, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of this sale. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Proceeds from these two forestland transactions total approximately $6.1 billion in cash and notes, and will result in an estimated special fourth-quarter pre-tax gain in excess of $4 billion.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 7, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
MEMPHIS, Tenn.Nov. 3, 2006International Paper (NYSE: IP) has completed the previously announced sale of 4.2 million acres of forestland in the Southeastern U.S. and Michigan to an investor group led by Resource Management Service, LLC (RMS) for approximately $5 billion in cash and notes, subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
Together with the $1.13 billion sale to TimberStar Southwest completed earlier this week, 2006 fourth-quarter proceeds from these two forestland transactions total approximately $6.1 billion in cash and notes, and will result in an estimated special fourth-quarter pre-tax gain in excess of $4 billion. With the closing of this sale, proceeds from transformation-related forestland sales now total approximately $6.6 billion.
International Paper's sale of the majority of its U.S. forestlands is part of the company's transformation plan to improve returns and position the company for long-term success by focusing on uncoated papers and packaging businesses, exploring strategic options for other businesses, returning value to shareowners, strengthening the balance sheet, and strategically reinvesting in growing markets.
"I'm pleased that this milestone substantially completes the sale of our U.S. forestlands, which is a big step forward for International Paper's transformation plan," said IP Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Faraci. "So far, we've received approximately $9.5 billion of the $9.7 billion in proceeds expected from sale agreements announced to date.
"We've returned approximately $1.4 billion to our shareowners through a share repurchase, and we've also begun the process of strengthening our balance sheet by repaying debt. We continue to improve results in our platform businesses, and we've announced plans for strategic, accretive reinvestments in China, Brazil and Russia, significantly strengthening our global positions in uncoated papers and packaging."
The transaction with RMS was announced in April 2006, as part of International Paper's sale of the majority of its U.S. forestlands. RMS led negotiations for the 4.2 million-acre purchase on behalf of an investor group comprising RMS, Atlanta-based Forest Investment Associates, Boston-based GMO Renewable Resources and other investors.
In connection with the transaction, the parties also entered into a 20-year fiber supply agreement for International Paper's pulp and paper mills in the South, a 10-year fiber supply agreement on the Michigan forestlands to be assigned to IP's former coated paper facilities in the region (now owned by Verso Paper), and a 10-year fiber supply agreement for IP's wood products facilities, all at market prices. Under the terms of the agreement, the forestlands will continue to be managed and third-party certified under the requirements of the Sustainable Forestry Intitiative Standard.
About Resource Management Service
Founded in 1950, RMS is an independent timberland investment management firm that manages forest investments in the U.S. South on behalf of private clients and institutional investors. RMS is based in Birmingham, Ala., with forestry offices across the South.
www.resourcemgt.com
About International Paper
Headquartered in the United States, International Paper has been a leader in the forest products industry for more than 100 years. The company is currently transforming its operations to focus on its global uncoated papers and packaging businesses, which operate and serve customers in the U.S., Europe, South America and Asia. These businesses are complemented by an extensive North American merchant distribution system. International Paper is committed to environmental, economic and social sustainability, and has a long-standing policy of using no wood from endangered forests. To learn more, visit .
www.internationalpaper.com
:
Contacts
Media, Amy Sawyer, 901-419-4312; Investors, Brian McDonald, 901-419-4957
For International Paper:
Mary Kay Greer, 205-980-7304
For Resource Management Service:

Exhibit 99.2
 
News Release
MEMPHIS, Tenn.Oct. 30, 2006International Paper (NYSE: IP) has completed the previously announced sale of 900,000 acres of forestland in Louisiana, Texas and Arkansas to TimberStar Southwest, whose lead investor is TimberStar, a subsidiary of iStar Financial Inc. (NYSE: SFI), for approximately $1.13 billion in cash and notes.
The transaction was announced in April 2006 as part of International Paper's sale of the majority of its U.S. forestlands. In connection with the sale, the parties also entered into a 50-year fiber supply agreement for IP's pulp and paper mills, and a 30-year fiber supply agreement for IP's wood products facilities, both at market prices. Under TimberStar Southwest management, the forestlands will continue to be managed and third-party certified under the requirements of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative
Standard.
About International Paper
Headquartered in the United States, International Paper has been a leader in the forest products industry for more than 100 years. The company is currently transforming its operations to focus on its global uncoated papers and packaging businesses, which operate and serve customers in the U.S., Europe, South America and Asia. These businesses are complemented by an extensive North American merchant distribution system. International Paper is committed to environmental, economic and social sustainability, and has a long-standing policy of using no wood from endangered forests. To learn more, visit .
www.internationalpaper.com
About TimberStar and iStar Financial Inc.
Atlanta-based TimberStar, a new timber and timberland company, was founded in 2005 for the purpose of acquiring productive forestlands and managing them for long-term timber production. TimberStar is a subsidiary of iStar Financial, Inc., and is managed by industry veterans Jerry Barag and John Rasor. Barag was most recently Chief Investment Officer of Timbervest and Rasor spent more than 40 years in various leadership roles at Georgia-Pacific, including Executive Vice President, Forest Resources. The former IP lands in Louisiana, Texas and Arkansas lands will be managed as TimberStar Southwest from a central office in Shreveport, La. TimberStar has additional landholdings in the Northeastern United States. Additional information on TimberStar is available on the company's Web site at http://www.timberstar.com.
iStar Financial Inc. (NYSE: SFI) is the leading publicly traded finance company focused on the commercial real estate industry. The company primarily provides custom tailored financing to high end private and corporate owners of real estate, including senior and mezzanine real estate debt, senior and mezzanine corporate capital, corporate net lease financing and equity. The company, which is taxed as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), seeks to deliver strong dividends and superior risk-adjusted returns on equity to shareholders by providing innovative and value added financing solutions to its customers. Additional information on iStar Financial is available on the company's Web site at http://www.istarfinancial.com.
:
Contacts
International Paper: Media  Amy Sawyer, 901-419-4312; Investors  Brian McDonald, 901-419-4957
iStar Financial: Media and Investor Relations  Andrew G. Backman: 212-930-9450


