FILE:IP/IP-8K-20070713150434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 10, 2007, Timothy S. Nicholls, 45, was elected senior vice president and chief financial officer of International Paper Company (the "Company"), effective December 1, 2007.
Mr. Nicholls currently serves as vice president and executive project leader on special assignment related to the Company's potential joint venture with Russian pulp and paper company, Ilim Pulp. From 2004 to 2007, he served as vice president and chief financial officer of the Company's European operations. From 2003 to 2004, he served as vice president of the Company and president of the Company's former Canadian pulp and wood products business, and from 2001 to 2003, he served as director of finance and planning for the Company's industrial packaging sector.
A copy of the press release announcing this appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 13, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
MEMPHIS, Tenn.July 13, 2007International Paper (NYSE: IP) today announced that Timothy S. Nicholls has been elected senior vice president and chief financial officer, effective Dec. 1, 2007.
"Tim's global business, finance and operations experience make him an excellent choice to be our next CFO," said International Paper Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Faraci. "He will be a strong addition to our leadership team as we continue to execute our transformation plan."
Nicholls, 45, is currently vice president and executive project leader on special assignment related to the company's potential joint venture with Russian pulp and paper company, Ilim Pulp. He has also served as vice president and chief financial officer of the company's European operations, based in Brussels, Belgium, and as president of the company's former Canadian pulp and wood products business.
Nicholls began his career in the paper industry with Union Camp Corporation in 1991, where he held positions in finance, business management, and planning and development in both U.S. and non-U.S. packaging operations. When International Paper acquired Union Camp in 1999, he became general manager of the emerging markets segment of the combined company's corrugated packaging business and later became director of finance and planning for the industrial packaging sector.
Nicholls earned his Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from the University of South Carolina in Spartanburg, and has an MBA from the University of Georgia in Athens.
On International Paper
International Paper (NYSE:IP), founded in 1898, is a global uncoated paper and packaging company with primary markets and manufacturing operations in North America, Europe, Russia, Latin America, Asia and North Africa. Its uncoated papers and packaging businesses are complemented by xpedx, North America's largest distributor of printing papers and graphics supplies and equipment. Headquartered in the United States, International Paper employs approximately 54,000 people in more than 20 countries, and serves customers worldwide. Annual sales are about $22 billion. International Paper partners with customers and environmental, academic, civic and governmental organizations, as well as landowners and harvesting professionals, to encourage responsible forest
stewardship, improve the health and productivity of forestlands and increase recovery of our recyclable products. The company has a long-standing policy of using no wood from endangered forests. To learn more about International Paper, its products and commitment to economic, social and environmental sustainability, visit www.internationalpaper.com.
This press release may contain forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current views and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. For example, a change in business or personal circumstances may affect the timing of Ms. Parrs' retirement and may also affect the date on which Mr. Nicholls assumes his duties as chief financial officer. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
International Paper Contacts:
Media, Amy Sawyer, +1 901 826 4278 or amy.sawyer@ipaper.com; Investors, Brian McDonald, +1 901 419 4957, or Ann-Marie Donaldson, +1 901 419 4967


