FILE:IP/IP-8K-20070503090555.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On May 3, 2007, International Paper Company issued a press release reporting preliminary earnings for the first quarter of 2007 and held a webcast and a conference call to discuss earnings and current market conditions. A copy of the press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the slides presented at the webcast and discussed in the conference call is being furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press release of International Paper Company, dated May 3, 2007
Exhibit 99.2 Slides of International Paper Company, dated May 3, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 3, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
 
 
International Paper (NYSE: IP) today reported preliminary first-quarter 2007 net earnings of $434 million ($0.97 per share) compared with fourth-quarter net earnings of $1.98 billion ($4.38 per share) and a loss of $1.2 billion ($2.54 per share) in the first quarter of 2006. Amounts in all periods include special items, including the receipt of proceeds from the sale of the majority of the company's U.S. forestlands in the fourth quarter of 2006.
MEMPHIS, Tenn.May 3, 2007
 
Earnings from continuing operations and before special items in the first quarter of 2007 were $203 million ($0.45 per share), compared with $216 million ($0.47 per share) in the fourth quarter of 2006 and up from $58 million ($0.12 per share) in the first quarter a year ago.
 
Quarterly net sales were $5.2 billion, compared with $5.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006, and $5.5 billion in the first quarter of 2006, primarily reflecting lower forestland sales.
Industry segment operating profits continued to rise to $530 million for the 2007 first quarter versus $425 million in the 2006 fourth quarter and $411 million in the first quarter of 2006. The increase reflects continued strong average price realizations and strong manufacturing operations.
"We've hit the ground running in 2007 with our best first quarter since 2000 and operational margins up nearly 300 basis points versus the first quarter last year," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Faraci. "Our pricing momentum remains strong, with volumes flat overall as we took some downtime and shifted product among global markets to match our supply with our customers' demand. Our manufacturing operations performed well and improvements in cost and mix more than offset some overall increases in input costs. We've also now bought more than $800 million in shares on the open market, which has brought our outstanding share count down."
Commenting on the second quarter of 2007, Faraci said, "We expect somewhat higher earnings from continuing operations in the second quarter, with seasonally stronger volumes and improvements in average price realizations. We continue to improve the performance of our global manufacturing operations, and we'll realize earnings from our first full quarter of operations from the Luiz Antonio mill in Brazil. We expect that input costs will remain high and also expect to have slightly higher maintenance outage expense in the second quarter."
SEGMENT INFORMATION
First-quarter 2007 segment operating profits and business trends compared with the fourth quarter of 2007 are as follows:
Operating profits for were $231 million, up from fourth quarter 2006 operating profits of $191 million, excluding special items. The increase is attributable to improved results across our global paper businesses, including record first-quarter performance from European Papers and the addition of the Luiz Antonio mill in Brazil. Pulp earnings also grew in the first quarter, resulting from higher shipments, improved operations at the Riegelwood, N.C., mill, and higher prices.
Printing Papers
operating profits were $103 million, compared with $130 million in the prior quarter. The decrease was principally due to a change in accounting treatment for planned mill maintenance outages in the first quarter. Box volumes were slow early in the quarter, with substantial pick-up in March. Strong manufacturing performance offset most of the impact from higher fiber costs through the quarter. The European container business had record first-quarter earnings thanks to better volumes, higher prices and strong manufacturing operations.
Industrial Packaging
operating profits were $61 million in the first quarter, up from $27 million in the 2006 fourth quarter, due to higher earnings in U.S. and European coated paperboard and foodservice businesses, as well as contributions from the IP-Sun Paper joint venture in China. The foodservice business had its best quarter in eight years with strength in volumes, price and cost control. Higher earnings in the U.S. business reflect, in part, the change in accounting treatment for planned mill maintenance outages. Shorewood Packaging is seasonally slow in the first quarter, but posted better results due to the absence of a one-time non-cash charge that impacted fourth-quarter results.
Consumer Packaging
The company's business, xpedx, reported record first-quarter operating profits of $29 million compared with operating profits in the prior quarter of $31 million. Sales revenues were slightly down versus the fourth quarter of 2006 because of seasonal slowdowns in volumes.
distribution
 
operating profits declined to $100 million from fourth-quarter operating profits of $162 million. Second-quarter Forest Products operating profits could be slightly down from first quarter due to timing of some land sale transactions. The company's objective in managing the sale of its remaining lands is to earn maximum value for shareowners.
Forest Products
Net corporate expense totaled $164 million for the quarter, essentially even with $166 million in the 2006 fourth quarter and well below $180 million for the 2006 first quarter. Compared with the fourth quarter, the benefit of lower pension expense was largely offset by higher benefits-related costs and the effect of a fourth-quarter favorable inventory-related adjustment. Lower pension expense net of inventory-related adjustments were the major factors in the decline versus the 2006 first quarter.
EFFECTIVE TAX RATE
The effective tax rate from continuing operations and before special items for the first quarter of 2007 was 32 percent, compared with a tax rate of 28 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006 and 26 percent in the first quarter of 2006. The increase reflects the higher percentage of total company earnings generated from U.S. operations.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Discontinued operations for the 2007 first quarter included a $21 million pre-tax gain ($9 million after taxes) relating to the sale of wood products operations, a pre-tax loss of $9 million ($35 million after taxes) for adjustments to the losses on sales of the beverage packaging and kraft papers businesses, a pre-tax credit of $10 million ($6 million after taxes) for additional duty refunds received related to our former Weldwood of Canada Limited business, and the operating results of the beverage packaging and wood products businesses during the quarter.
Amounts recorded in the 2006 fourth quarter included pre-tax charges of $102 million and $18 million ($69 million and $11 million after taxes) to adjust the carrying values of the wood products and beverage packaging businesses, a $38 million pre-tax credit ($23 million after taxes) for Canadian duty refunds received, a $3 million pre-tax charge ($2 million after taxes) to adjust prior discontinued operations estimates, and the quarterly operating results of the kraft papers, wood products and beverage packaging businesses.
Discontinued operations in the 2006 first quarter included a $100 million pre-tax charge ($61 million after taxes) to reduce the carrying value of the kraft papers business, and the operating results for the quarter of the kraft papers, Brazilian coated papers, wood products and beverage packaging businesses.
EFFECTS OF SPECIAL ITEMS
Special items in the first quarter of 2007 included an $18 million pre-tax charge ($11 million after taxes) for severance and other charges associated with the company's Transformation Plan, a pre-tax gain of $205 million ($164 million after taxes) relating to the assets exchanged for the Luiz Antonio mill in Brazil, a pre-tax gain of $103 million ($96 million after taxes) from the sale of the Arizona Chemical business, and a $6 million pre-tax credit ($4 million after taxes) for adjustments relating to the coated papers business.
Special items in the 2006 fourth quarter included a pre-tax gain of $4.4 billion ($2.7 billion after taxes) from sales of U.S. forestlands included in the company's transformation plan, a charge of $759 million (before and after taxes) for the impairment of goodwill in the company's coated paperboard and Shorewood Packaging businesses, a $128 million pre-tax impairment charge ($84 million after taxes) to reduce the carrying value of the company's Saillat, France, mill, a $111 million pre-tax charge ($69 million after taxes) for restructuring and other corporate charges, a $6 million pre-tax credit ($4 million
 
after taxes) for interest received on Canadian duty refunds, a $21 million pre-tax charge (zero after taxes) relating to smaller asset sales, and a $5 million pre-tax credit ($3 million after taxes) for reductions of reserves no longer required.
Special items in the 2006 first quarter included a $1.3 billion pre-tax charge ($1.2 billion after taxes) to reduce the carrying value of the company's coated papers business, an $18 million pre-tax charge ($11 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring charges related to the company's transformation plan, an $8 million pre-tax charge ($5 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, and an $18 million pre-tax charge ($11 million after taxes) for legal reserves.
EARNINGS WEBCAST
The company will hold a webcast to review earnings at 10 a.m. Eastern Standard Time / 9 a.m. Central Standard Time today. All interested parties are invited to listen to the webcast live via the company's Internet site at http://www.internationalpaper.com by clicking on the Investors tab and going to the Presentations page. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the Web site beginning at noon today. Parties who wish to participate in the webcast via teleconference may dial (706) 679-8242 or, within the U.S. only, (877) 316-2541 and ask to be connected to the International Paper 1Q 2007 Earnings Call. The conference ID number is 4023404. Participants should call in no later than 9:45 a.m. EST/8:45 CST. An audio-only replay will be available for four weeks following the call. To access the replay, dial (706) 645-9291 or, within the U.S. only, (800) 642-1687, and when prompted for the conference ID, enter "4023404."
International Paper (NYSE:IP), founded in 1898, is a global uncoated paper and packaging company with primary markets and manufacturing operations in North America, Europe, Russia, Latin America, Asia and North Africa. Its uncoated papers and packaging businesses are complemented by xpedx, North America's largest distributor of printing papers and graphics supplies and equipment. Headquartered in the United States, International Paper employs approximately 54,000 people in more than 20 countries, and serves customers worldwide. Annual sales are about $22 billion. International Paper partners with customers and environmental, academic, civic and governmental organizations, as well as landowners and harvesting professionals, to encourage responsible forest stewardship, improve the health and productivity of forestlands and increase recovery of our recyclable products. The company has a long-standing policy of using no wood from endangered forests. To learn more about International Paper, its products and commitment to economic, social and environmental sustainability, visit .
www.internationalpaper.com
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current views and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ relate to: (i) industry conditions, including changes in the cost or availability of raw materials and energy, changes in transportation costs, competition, changes in the Company's product mix and demand and pricing for the Company's products; (ii) market and economic factors, including changes in international conditions, specifically in Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, changes in currency exchange rates, changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, pension and healthcare costs and natural disasters, such as hurricanes; (iii) the Company's ability to realize anticipated profit improvement from its transformation plan, and the ability to invest proceeds with attractive financial returns; and (iv) results of legal proceedings and compliance costs, including unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations and the uncertainty of the costs and other effects of pending litigation. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
:
Contacts
Media: Amy Sawyer, 901-419-4312; Investors: Brian McDonald, 901-419-4957 and Ann-Marie Donaldson, 901-419-4967
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Certain 2006 amounts have been revised to reflect the retrospective application of a change in accounting for planned major maintenance activities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
Sales by Industry Segment
 
International Paper Consolidated
 
 



