FILE:IP/IP-8K-20080806123133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 4, 2008, International Paper Company (the "Company"), completed its previously announced purchase of the assets of Weyerhaeuser Company's Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling business (the "Acquisition"). The purchase price is approximately $6 billion in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
A copy of the Company's press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On June 16, 2008, the Company entered into a $3 billion Credit Agreement among the Company, the Lenders party thereto (the "Lenders"), the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ("JPMorgan"), as Administrative Agent (the "Credit Agreement"). Under the terms of the Credit Agreement the Lenders agreed to make loans to the Company on the Closing Date (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in the form of (i) Tranche A Loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $2.5 billion (the "Tranche A Loans") and (ii) Tranche X Loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $500 million (the "Tranche X Loans").
On August 4, 2008, the Company borrowed the full $2.5 billion under the Tranche A Loans to pay a portion of the purchase price for the Acquisition. The Company did not draw down on the Tranche X Loans.
The maturity date for the Tranche A Loans is the five-year anniversary of the Closing Date (as defined in the Credit Agreement). Principal payments will be made quarterly throughout the term of the Tranche A Loans with 45% of the original aggregate principal amount of the Tranche A Loans due on the maturity date.
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of the Company, (i) the alternative base rate (defined as the greater of the rate announced publicly by JPMorgan in New York, NY as JPMorgan's prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%), or (ii) LIBOR; in either case plus a margin to be determined by reference to the long-term credit rating of the Company issued by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
The Credit Agreement contains certain negative covenants (including a prohibition on fundamental changes of the Company and a limitation on liens), financial covenants (including a covenant not to permit at any time the ratio of Total Debt to Total Capital to exceed 0.60 to 1, and a covenant not to permit at any time the Consolidated Net Worth (as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement) to be less than $9 billion), affirmative covenants and events of default that are substantially similar to those contained in the Company's $1.5 billion 5-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2006, among the Company, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan. In addition, certain of the Company's subsidiaries have agreed to provide unconditional guarantees of the Company's monetary obligations under the Credit Agreement.
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is incorporated into this Current Report on Form 8-K by reference and was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2008.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 28, 2008.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
All required pro forma financial information in connection with the Acquisition will be filed by amendment pursuant to Item 9.01(b)(2) within 71 calendar days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

INTERNATIONAL PAPER PLAZA
6400 POPLAR AVENUE
MEMPHIS, TN 38197
News Release
International Paper (NYSE: IP) has completed the purchase of the assets of Weyerhaeuser's Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling (CBPR) business for approximately $6 billion in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments.
MEMPHIS, Tenn.August 4, 2008
Because the transaction is a purchase of assets rather than of stock, International Paper will realize a tax benefit that has an estimated net present value of approximately $1.4 billion.
"This acquisition aligns well with our strategy to deliver improved bottom line results and further strengthen one of our company's platform businesses," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Faraci. "With a full management team already in place, we are prepared to deliver merger benefits quickly, while continuing to closely manage our capacity with our customers' demand."
Carol Roberts, senior vice president of International Paper's packaging business, said she sees considerable upside potential in the acquisition. "Weyerhaeuser has low-cost, well-run assets that complement our existing mill and converting system and offer significant synergies," she said.
"The completion of this acquisition allows us to begin to successfully integrate two very strong industrial packaging businesses. With this good, strategic business fit, we can provide better solutions to meet our customers' needs while becoming more profitable and more competitive as a company."
International Paper has identified profit improvement opportunities of about $400 million annually from the acquisition, as a result of reducing duplicate overhead costs, integrating manufacturing operations, optimizing product mix, and improving operational and supply chain efficiencies. The company expects to achieve at least 40 percent of the improvement within 12 months of completing the transaction. The remainder is expected to be fully realized by the end of the third year.
About International Paper
International Paper (NYSE:IP) is a global paper and packaging company with manufacturing operations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Russia, Asia and North Africa. Its businesses include uncoated papers and industrial and consumer packaging, complemented by xpedx, the company's North American distribution company. Headquartered in Memphis, Tenn., the company employs more than 50,000 people in more than 20 countries and serves customers worldwide. 2007 net sales were approximately $22 billion. For more information about International Paper, its products and stewardship efforts, visit internationalpaper.com.
About Weyerhaeuser's CBPR Business
.
Weyerhaeuser's containerboard packaging and recycling business employs 14,000 people and includes nine linerboard mills, 72 box plants in the U.S. and four in Mexico, and more than 30 specialty packaging, kraft bag and recycling operations
This press release contains forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current views and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ relate to: (i) the company's ability to realize anticipated profit improvement from its transformation plan, including our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of the assets of Weyerhaeuser Company's containerboard, packaging and recycling business in light of integration difficulties and other challenges; (ii) increases in interest rates and our ability to meet our debt service obligations; (iii) industry conditions, including but not limited to changes in the cost or availability of raw materials and energy, transportation costs, competition we face, the company's product mix, demand and pricing for its products; (iv) global economic conditions and political changes, including but not limited to changes in currency exchange rates, credit availability, the company's credit ratings issued by recognized credit rating organizations and pension and health care costs; (v) unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations and to actual or potential litigation; and (vi) whether we experience a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
:
Contacts
Media, Patty Neuhoff, 901-419-4052; Investors, Tom Cleves, 901-419-7566, Ann-Marie Donaldson, 901-419-4967
or Emily Nix, 901-419-4987


