FILE:IP/IP-8K-20080516134734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 12, 2008, the shareowners of the Company approved four amendments (the "Amendments") to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation at the annual meeting of shareowners. The Amendments were described in detail in our definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 8, 2008.
Thereafter, on May 12, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") authorized the Company to restate its Certificate of Incorporation as amended, and amend the Company By-Laws to conform to the amendment of Article VII of the Certificate of Incorporation relating to majority voting in any non-contested director elections, as described in the definitive proxy filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 8, 2008.
The Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of New York pursuant to Section 807 of the New York Business Corporation Law.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 16, 2008
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
, MAURA ABELN SMITH, being the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of International Paper Company (the ""), and SHARON R. RYAN, being the Associate General Counsel and Assistant Corporate Secretary, hereby certify:
WE, THE UNDERSIGNED
Corporation
1. The name of the Corporation is International Paper Company. The name under which the Corporation originally was incorporated was International Paper and Power Corporation
2. The Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Department of State of New York on June 23, 1941.
3. The Certificate of Incorporation, as previously amended and supplemented by certificates filed pursuant to law, is hereby amended to effect the following amendments and changes authorized pursuant to Section 803 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York (the "NYBCL") and restated pursuant to Section 807 of the NYBCL:
(a) The Certificate of Incorporation shall be amended to implement majority voting standard for the election of directors in non-contested director elections in Article VII.
(b) The Certificate of Incorporation shall be amended to eliminate the classes of directors set forth in Article VII and to elect each director annually.
(c) The Certificate of Incorporation shall be amended to eliminate the supermajority voting provisions contained in Article VII and Article VIII.
4. The text of the Certificate of Incorporation as amended and changed heretofore is hereby restated, pursuant to Section 807 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, without further amendments or changes, to read as herein set forth in full:
The name of the corporation is .
ARTICLE I.
INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
The purposes for which it is formed are:
ARTICLE II.
1. To maintain, conduct and manage the business of manufacturing, producing, purchasing, selling and dealing in any and all kinds of pulp and paper, and any and all ingredients, products and compounds thereof or articles consisting or partly consisting thereof, and any and all materials that now are or hereafter may be used in or in connection with any such manufacture, including any fibres.
 
 
2. To manufacture lumber, timber and any and all articles consisting, or partly consisting of lumber, wood or other forest products, and any and all products, or by-products, of any of the foregoing.
To acquire, own, lease, occupy, use or develop, or to sell, exchange or otherwise to dispose of timber lands, timber, timber rights, cutover lands, or other lands or interests in lands for any purpose of the Corporation.
To cut, saw, log, or otherwise to obtain or remove timber, logs, and other forest products, and to drill for, mine, quarry, or otherwise to obtain and remove oil, coal, ores, stone, iron-pyrites, clay, sulphur, agolite and any other mineral or minerals.
To buy, sell, exchange, or otherwise deal in lumber, timber, wood, or other forest products, or other products or by-products of any kind which it may manufacture, and in building material of every kind and description and in oil, coal, ores, stone, iron-pyrites, clay, sulphur, agolite and any other mineral or minerals.
3. To such extent as a corporation organized under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York or any statute amendatory thereof, supplementary thereto or substituted therefor may at the time lawfully do, but not otherwise: to own, develop and use any and all kinds of water power and water rights and to do any and all acts and things necessary, convenient or proper therefor, or in any way pertaining thereto.
4. To such extent as a corporation organized under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York or any statute amendatory thereof, supplementary thereto or substituted thereof may at the time lawfully do, but not otherwise: to purchase, construct, lease or otherwise acquire and operate ships, boats, ferries, docks, slips, elevators, engines, cars, tramroads, railroads and any other means of transportation which may be useful, necessary or convenient for the purposes of the Corporation, and to transport by land or water any materials, supplies or other products of the Corporation or goods useful in connection with the operation or conduct of its business.
5. To such extent as a corporation organized under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, or any statute amendatory thereof, supplementary thereto, or substituted therefor may at the time lawfully do, but not otherwise: to manufacture, prepare, buy, exchange, lease, rent, hire, or otherwise acquire, hold, use, operate, lease, exchange, sell, donate or otherwise dispose of, import, export, distribute, trade in, process, deal in and deal with, either as principal or agent, goods, wares, merchandise, machinery, equipment, materials and personal property of every kind and description; to acquire, use, hold, pledge, equipment, materials and personal property of every kind and description; to acquire, use, hold, pledge, hypothecate, subscribe for, invest in, sell or otherwise dispose of and generally deal in and deal with any and all grants, options, concessions, franchises and contracts of any and all kind; to explore for, research, investigate, extract, manufacture, produce and otherwise obtain, market, sell, buy, generally deal in and deal with, rent, exchange, lease and otherwise acquire and dispose of means and sources of energy and deposits of ores, stone, clays, minerals and mineral compounds.
6. To apply for, obtain, register, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire, hold, own, use, introduce, develop or control, sell, assign or otherwise dispose of, take or grant licenses or
 
 
other rights with respect to and in any and all ways to exploit or turn to account inventions, improvements, processes, copyrights, patents, trademarks, formulae, trade names and distinctive marks and similar rights of any and all kinds; and whether granted, registered or established by or under the laws of the United States of America or of any state, country, authority or place.
7. To conduct its business in any and all of its branches and maintain offices both within and without the State of New York and in any and all other States of the United States of America and in any and all territories, dependencies, colonies or possessions thereof, in the District of Columbia, and in any and all foreign countries and places; to acquire, buy, purchase or otherwise hold, possess, use, mortgage, transfer, sell, convey or otherwise dispose of real and personal property without limitation in all thereof to the extent that the same may be permissible under their laws.
8. To such extent as a corporation organized under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York or any statute amendatory thereof, supplement thereto, or substituted therefor may at the time lawfully do, but not otherwise, the Corporation shall have the right and is hereby authorized to subscribe for, purchase, acquire, hold and dispose of the stocks, bonds and other evidences of indebtedness of or interest in or other securities of any corporation or association, domestic or foreign, and in exchange therefor to issue its own stock, bonds or other obligations, and to aid or assist in any manner, whether by loan, subsidy, guaranty or otherwise, any corporation or association issuing any of such securities or any person, firm, corporation or association in whose business affairs this Corporation shall have any interest, and in connection therewith to guarantee the performance of any undertaking or obligation or the payment of dividends on stock. The Corporation may use and apply its surplus property, earnings or accumulated profits in the discretion of the directors to the creation and maintenance of a surplus fund, and to the purchase and acquisition of its own capital stock, and may take said stock in payment or satisfaction of any debt due to the Corporation from time to time, and to such extent and manner and upon such terms as the directors shall determine, and may issue or sell any stock so acquired.
9. To do each and everything necessary, suitable, convenient or proper for the accomplishment of any of the purposes or the attainment of any one or all of the objects herein before enumerated or incidental to the powers herein named or which at any time shall appear conducive thereto or expedient for the protection or benefit of the Corporation either as a holder of or as interested in any property or otherwise. To have all of the rights, powers and privileges now or hereafter conferred by the laws of the State of New York upon corporations organized under the Business Corporation Law of such State or under any act amendatory thereof, supplemental thereto or substituted therefor, but nothing herein contained is to be construed as authorizing the Corporation to carry on the business of discounting bills, notes or other evidences of debt, of receiving deposits of money or foreign coins or of buying and selling bills of exchange, or of issuing bills, notes or other evidences of debt for circulation as money, or shall be deemed to authorize or permit the Corporation to carry on any business, or exercise any power or do any act which a corporation organized under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York or any statute amendatory thereof, supplementary thereto or substituted therefor may not at the time lawfully do.
10. The foregoing clauses shall be construed both as objects and powers, in furtherance and not in limitation of the general powers conferred by the laws of the State of New York;
 
 
and it is hereby expressly provided that the enumeration herein of specific objects and powers shall not be held to limit or restrict in any way the general powers of the Corporation, and that the Corporation may do all and everything reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of any of the objects or powers hereinbefore enumerated, either alone or in association with other corporations, associations, firms or individuals, to the same extent and as fully as individuals might or could do as principals, agents, contractors or otherwise.
The Secretary of State of the State of New York is designated as the agent of INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY upon whom process in any action or proceeding against INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY may be served.
ARTICLE III.
The office of the Corporation (as defined in Section 103 of the New York Business Corporation Law) shall be in New York County, New York. The name of the registered agent which is to be the agent of the Corporation upon whom process against it may be served is CT Corporation System 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011.
ARTICLE IV.
The total number of shares which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is one billion (1,000,000,000) shares, of which nine hundred and ninety nine million six hundred thousand (999,600,000) shares have a par value of one dollar ($1.00) each, and four hundred thousand (400,000) shares shall be without par value. The shares of the Corporation shall be classified. The number of shares in each class shall be as follows:
ARTICLE V.
Four hundred thousand (400,000) shares without par value shall be Cumulative $4 Preferred Stock (the "Preferred Stock");
Eight million seven hundred fifty thousand (8,750,000) shares having a par value of one dollar ($1.00) each shall be Serial Preferred Stock; and
Nine hundred ninety million eight hundred fifty thousand (990,850,000) shares having a par value of one dollar ($1.00) each shall be Common Stock.
The whole or any part of the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation may be issued as partly paid, subject to calls thereon until the whole thereof shall have been paid in.
The designations, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the shares of each class, and the restrictions or qualifications thereof, are to be as follows:
1. The Preferred Stock shall be issued in one series.
2. All shares of the Preferred Stock shall be identical with each other in all respects, except that shares issued at different times may differ as to dates from which dividends thereon shall accumulate.
 
 
3.1. The holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, but only when and as declared by the Board of Directors, dividends from the surplus or net profits of the Corporation at the rate of $4 per share per annum, and no more, payable quarterly in each year on such dates as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors. Dividends on the Preferred Stock shall be cumulative. On shares of the Preferred Stock issued prior to October 1, 1946 dividends shall commence to accrue from July 1, 1946. Any other shares of the Preferred Stock shall be issued with accruals of dividends uniform with the unpaid accruals of dividends, if any, on the Preferred Stock outstanding at the time of each such issue. Accumulations of dividends shall not bear interest.
3.2. If dividends in full on all outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock for all past quarterly dividend periods and for the then current quarterly dividend period shall not have been paid or been declared and set apart for payment, no dividends (other than dividends payable in stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock) shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on, nor shall any distribution be made to, any class of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock.
3.3. So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Corporation, without first obtaining the affirmative vote of the holders of record of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by resolution adopted at any meeting called for the purpose, shall not declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on any stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock (other than a dividend payable in stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock), or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for value any stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, or pay, set aside or make available any monies to or for a sinking fund for the purchase or redemption of any stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, except to the extent that the sum of
(i) 5,000,000, plus
(ii) the aggregate net earnings of the Corporation since December 31, 1945, as determined annually by the independent public accountants employed by the Corporation and, pending such determination for any particular year, as determined by the accounting staff of the Corporation, plus
(iii) the aggregate net proceeds received by the Corporation from the Issuance, exchange or sale, subsequent to December 31, 1945, of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock (except any such stock issued on conversion of, or as consideration for exchange of, or to provide funds for redemption or purchase of Cumulative Convertible 5% Preferred Stock formerly authorized and outstanding)
exceeds the sum of
(iv) all dividends (other than dividends payable in stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock) and distributions declared, paid or made subsequent to December 31, 1945 on any stock of the Corporation, plus
 
 
(v) the cost to the Corporation of the acquisition for value (by purchase, redemption, exchange, or otherwise) of all stock, other than the Cumulative Convertible 5% Preferred Stock formerly authorized and outstanding, ranking junior to the Preferred Stock acquired by the Corporation subsequent to December 31, 1945, including in such cost all monies set apart for any such purpose.
3.4. If dividends in full on all outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock for all past quarterly dividend periods shall not have been paid or been declared and set apart for payment:
(i) the Corporation shall not call for redemption any shares of the Preferred Stock unless either:
(a) all shares of the Preferred Stock outstanding are called for simultaneous redemption, or
(b) if less than all shares of the Preferred Stock outstanding are called for redemption at any time, the number of shares called for redemption from each registered holder at that time shall be that number which bears the same proportion to the total number of shares of such stock registered in the name of such holder as the number of shares called for redemption at that time bears to the total number of shares of the Preferred Stock then outstanding, except that in so determining the number of shares called, fractions of less than one-half shall be disregarded and fractions of one-half or more shall be treated as one whole share;
(ii) neither the Corporation nor any subsidiary shall purchase any shares of the Preferred Stock except in accordance with an invitation for tenders or a purchase offer made in writing to all holders of the Preferred Stock on the same terms; and
(iii) the Corporation shall not call for redemption, and neither the Corporation nor any subsidiary shall purchase or otherwise acquire for valuable consideration, any shares of any class of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, nor shall the Corporation or any subsidiary pay or make available any moneys for any such redemption, purchase or acquisition.
4. Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive out of the net assets of the Corporation (whether represented by capital or surplus), (i) if such dissolution, liquidation or winding up is voluntary, cash in an amount per share as follows: if the date fixed for the distribution upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up shall occur between July 1, 1946 and June 30, 1952 inclusive, $115; if said date shall occur between July 1, 1952 and June 30, 1955 inclusive, $112.50; if said date shall occur between July 1, 1955 and June 30, 1958 inclusive, $110; if said date shall occur between July 1, 1958 and June 30, 1961 inclusive, $107.50; and thereafter, $105; and (ii) if such dissolution, liquidation or winding up is involuntary, cash in the amount of $100 per share, plus in
 
 
each case an amount equal to all dividends accrued and unpaid on such share up to and including the date fixed for distribution, whether or not earned or declared, and no more, in either case before any distribution of the assets to be distributed shall be made to the holders of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock. If, upon any dissolution, liquidation or winding up, the assets of the Corporation distributable among the holders of the Preferred Stock shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of the Preferred Stock ratably in accordance with the sums which would be payable on such distribution if all sums payable were discharged in full.
5.1 Except as herein or by law expressly provided, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote in any proceeding or to be represented at or to receive notice of any meeting of stockholders, and there is hereby specifically excluded any right of the holders of the Preferred Stock to vote (i) for mortgaging the property and franchises of the Corporation pursuant to Section 911 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York or any statutory provision amendatory of, supplementary to or substituted for said Section, whether as a part of said Law or otherwise, (ii) for authorizing any guaranty pursuant to Section 908 of the said Law or any statutory provision amendatory of, supplementary to or substituted for said Section, whether as a part of said Law or otherwise, (iii) for sale of the franchises and property of the Corporation pursuant to Section 909 of the said Law or any statutory provision amendatory of, supplementary to or substituted for said Section, whether as a part of said Law or otherwise, other than as provided in subdivision 8 hereof, (iv) for consolidation pursuant to Section 903 of the said Law or any statutory provision amendatory of, supplementary to or substituted for said Section, whether as a part of said Law or otherwise, (v) for voluntary dissolution pursuant to Section 1001 of the said Law or any statutory provision amendatory of, supplementary to or substituted for said Section, whether as a part of said Law or otherwise, or (vi) for change of name pursuant to the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York or any statute amendatory thereof, supplementary thereto or substituted therefor; provided, however, that if at the time of any annual meeting of stockholders the Corporation shall be in arrears in dividends on the Preferred Stock in an amount equal to four full quarterly dividends thereon, then at such annual meeting and thereafter at all meetings for the election of directors until all arrearages of dividends accumulated on the Preferred Stock for all preceding dividend periods shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment, and no longer, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have the sole right, to the exclusion of all other classes of stock, to vote for and elect one-third (or the nearest whole number thereto) of the total number of directors to be elected at the meeting. At all meetings for the election of directors, so long as such right to elect directors shall continue, the holders of the Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class, shall first vote for and elect the total number of directors which they are entitled to elect as aforesaid, and thereafter the holders of the Common Stock and any other stock having voting powers shall, in accordance with their respective voting rights, vote for and elect the remaining directors.
5.2. At any meeting of the stockholders at which the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have the right to vote they shall have one vote for each share. The holders of
 
 
the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to notice of any meeting of the stockholders called for the election of directors at which such holders shall be entitled to vote as in subdivision 5.1 provided (as well as to notice of any other meeting at which such holders shall be entitled to vote), and at any such election the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock represented at the meeting shall constitute a quorum for the election of such directors, and a plurality of all votes of the Preferred Stock cast at the meeting shall be sufficient to elect such directors.
5.3. Whenever all arrearages of dividends on the Preferred Stock as aforesaid shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment, all powers of the holders of the Preferred Stock to vote for directors shall terminate, and the tenure of office of all Directors elected by them shall forthwith automatically come to an end.
6.1. On and after July 1, 1949, the Preferred Stock may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation, by resolution of its Board of Directors, at any time or from time to time, at the redemption price per share as follows: if the date fixed for redemption shall occur between July 1, 1949 and June 30, 1952 inclusive, $115; if said date shall occur between July 1, 1952 and June 30, 1955 inclusive, $112.50; if said date shall occur between July 1, 1955 and June 30, 1958 inclusive, $110; if said date shall occur between July 1, 1958 and June 30, 1961 inclusive, $107.50; and thereafter, $105; plus in each case an amount equal to all dividends accrued and unpaid on such share up to and including the date fixed for redemption, whether or not earned or declared. If less than all shares of the Preferred Stock outstanding are to be redeemed, the shares to be redeemed shall be chosen by lot in such manner as the Board of Directors may determine, provided that, if dividends in full on all outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock for all past quarterly dividend periods shall not have been paid or been declared and set apart for payment, the shares to be redeemed shall be determined as provided in subdivisions 3.4(i)(b) hereof.
6.2. Not less than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days previous to the date fixed for redemption, a notice specifying the time and place thereof shall be given to the holders of record of the Preferred Stock to be redeemed by mail at their respective addresses as the same shall appear on the books of the Corporation and by publication at least once in at least one newspaper printed in the English language of general circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, but no failure to mail such notice, nor any defect therein or in the mailing thereof, shall affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any shares of the Preferred Stock so to be redeemed. At any time after notice of redemption has been given by publication in the manner prescribed above to the holders of stock so to be redeemed, the Corporation may deposit the aggregate redemption price in trust with a bank or trust company (in good standing, organized under the laws of the United States of America or of the State of New York, doing business in The City of New York, and having capital, surplus and undivided profits aggregating at least $5,000,000) named in such notice, for payment on the date fixed for redemption as aforesaid (or prior to such date if so determined by the Board of Directors) to the holders of the shares so to be redeemed, on endorsement, if required by the Board of Directors, and upon surrender of the certificates for such shares. Upon the
 
 
deposit of such money as aforesaid or, if no such deposit is made, upon said redemption date (unless the Corporation shall default in making payment of the redemption price as set forth in such notice), such holders shall cease to be stockholders with respect to said shares and from and after the making of said deposit, or, if no such deposit is made, after the redemption date (the Corporation not having defaulted in making payment of the redemption price as set forth in such notice), the said holders shall have no interest in or claim against the Corporation and shall have no voting or other rights with respect to said shares, except the right to receive said monies on the date fixed for redemption as aforesaid (or earlier if so determined as aforesaid) from said bank or trust company or from the Corporation, without interest thereon, upon endorsement, if required, and surrender of the certificates as aforesaid; and the shares represented thereby shall no longer be outstanding. In case the holder of any such shares of the Preferred Stock shall not, within six years after said deposit, claim the amount deposited as above stated for the redemption thereof, the depositary shall, upon demand, pay over to the Corporation such unclaimed amount so deposited, and the depositary shall thereupon be relieved of all responsibility therefor to such holder.
6.3. Shares of the Preferred Stock which have been redeemed shall be canceled and shall not be reissued, and the Corporation shall from time to time take appropriate action to reduce the authorized amount of the Preferred Stock accordingly.
6.4. Nothing contained in subdivision 6.1 or 6.2 hereof shall limited the right of the Corporation to make purchases of shares of the Preferred Stock at any price.
7. So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Corporation, without first obtaining the affirmative vote of the holders of record of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by resolution adopted at any meeting called for the purpose, shall not
(i) authorize, create or issue stock of any class, or any security convertible into stock of any class, ranking, as to the payment of dividends or as to distribution upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, prior to the Preferred Stock; or
(ii) amend, alter, change or repeal any of the express provisions of (a) the "Certificate of Authorization of New Shares Without Par Value and of the Issuance of Such New Shares From Time to Time in One Series, and Change of Previously Authorized Unissued Shares with Par Value into the Same Number of Shares Without Par Value of A New Class and Reclassification of Shares, Pursuant to Section 36 of the Stock Corporation Law of the State of New York", filed in the Department of State in the State of New York on May 31, 1946, or (b) any certificate filed pursuant to Section 11 of the Stock Corporation Law of the State of New York (including particularly the certificate so filed on July 3, 1946) or Sections 501 and 502 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York or any statutory provisions amendatory of, supplementary to or substituted
 
 
for said Sections, whether as a part of said Law or otherwise, applicable to the Preferred Stock then outstanding, in a manner which is in any material respect prejudicial to the holders thereof, provided, however, that the provisions of this subdivision 7(ii) shall not apply to any such amendment, alteration, change or repeal resulting from a merger or consolidation.
8. So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Corporation, without first obtaining the affirmative vote of the holders of record of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by resolution adopted at any meeting called for the purpose, shall not
(i) increase the authorized number of shares of the Preferred Stock;
(ii) authorize, create or issue stock of any class, or any security convertible into stock of any class, ranking, as to the payment of dividends or as to distribution upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, on a parity with the Preferred Stock; or
(iii) sell, lease or otherwise dispose (otherwise then by merger or consolidation) all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation.
9. If at the time of any merger or consolidation to which the Corporation shall become a party any holder of the Preferred Stock does not have the right to demand and receive payment in cash of the then value of his shares of the Preferred Stock as determined by appraisal in the manner provided in the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York or any statute amendatory thereof, supplementary thereto or substituted therefore, such holder shall be entitled (if he so elects within 20 days after the Corporation shall have mailed to him notice of such merger or consolidation) to receive payment in cash of an amount equal to that to which he would then be entitled upon a voluntary liquidation of the Corporation under the provisions of subdivision 4 hereof, unless by the terms of the merger or consolidation he is entitled to shares or securities (which may be his shares of the Preferred Stock) of the Corporation resulting from the merger or consolidation which have a relative position and priority in the capital stock structure of said Corporation, and rights and preferences, at least equal to those of his shares of the Preferred Stock immediately prior to the merger or consolidation.
10. No holder of shares of the Preferred Stock shall, as such holder, have any preemptive or preferential right of subscription to or purchase of any shares or securities of any class which at any time may be sold or offered for sale by the Corporation.
11. When full cumulative dividends to which each share of the Preferred Stock at the time outstanding is entitled for all prior dividend periods and for the then current dividend period shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment, but not otherwise, the Board of Directors may, subject to the respective terms and provisions hereof, if any, applying thereto, declare and pay dividends on any other class or classes of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, and the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
 
 
12. Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the Preferred Stock as provided in subdivision 4 hereof, but not prior thereto, the holders of the class or classes of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions hereof, if any, applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
13. When used in subdivisions 1 through 12 above, the term "stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock" shall mean the Common Stock and any other class of stock which ranks junior to the Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or as to distribution upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
14. Subject to the provisions hereof, shares of the Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time as determined by the Board of Directors for such consideration as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
15. The Common Stock shall be subject to the prior rights of the Preferred Stock as hereinabove declared.
16. Subject to any exclusive voting rights which may vest in any holders of shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, other than Common Stock, holders of shares of the Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share upon all matters upon which stockholders have the right to vote.
17.1. No holder of bonds or other obligations or securities convertible into shares of any class shall as such holder have any preemptive or preferential right of subscription to or purchase of any shares or securities of any class which at any time may be sold or offered for sale by the Corporation.
17.2. No holder of shares of the Corporation's Stock shall as such holder have any preemptive or preferential right of subscription to or purchase of any shares or securities of any class which at any time may be sold or offered for sale by the Corporation.
18.1. The Serial Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time by the Board of Directors as shares of one or more series. Subject to the limitations hereof and the limitations prescribed by law, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized, prior to issuance, to adopt resolutions providing for the issuance of, or providing for a change in
 
 
the number of shares of any particular series, and, if and to the extent from time to time required by law, to file a certificate under Section 805 of the Business Corporation Law of New York, or any statute amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, establishing or changing the number of shares to be included in each such series and fixing the designation and relative rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each such series. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
(i) the serial designation of such shares and the number of shares constituting such series;
(ii) the annual dividend rate on shares of such series, whether dividends shall be cumulative and, if so, from which date or dates;
(iii) whether the shares of such series shall be redeemable and, if so, the terms and conditions of such redemption, including the date or dates upon and after which such shares shall be redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates;
(iv) the obligation, if any, of the Corporation to retire shares of such series pursuant to a sinking fund;
(v) whether shares of such series shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of stock of any other class or classes and, if so, the terms and conditions of such conversion or exchange, including the price or prices or the rate or rates of conversion or exchange and the terms of adjustment, if any;
(vi) whether the shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights;
(vii) the rights of the shares of such series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; and
(viii) any other relative rights, preferences and limitations of such series.
18.2. No holder of Serial Preferred Stock shall have any preemptive or preferential right of subscription to or purchase of any shares or securities of any class which at any time may be sold or offered for sale by the Corporation.
18.3. So long as any shares of Preferred Stock are outstanding, the preferences, privileges and voting powers, if any, of the shares of Serial Preferred Stock of any series, and the restrictions or qualifications thereof, shall be subject to the preferences, privileges and voting powers, if any, of the shares of Preferred Stock, and the restrictions and qualifications thereof.
 
 
18.4. So long as any shares of the Serial Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Corporation shall not issue any shares of Preferred Stock without first obtaining the affirmative vote of the holders of record of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of Serial Preferred Stock, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by resolution adopted at any meeting called for the purpose.
19. The Board of Directors may from time to time issue scrip in lieu of fractional shares of any class or classes or any rights in respect of fractional shares and upon such terms and with such provisions as may be determined by the Board of Directors. Such scrip shall not confer upon the holder thereof any right to dividends, except in so far as may be specifically provided by the Board of Directors at the time of issuance thereof or thereafter, or any voting or other rights as a stockholder of the Corporation, but the Corporation shall from time to time, within such time as the Board of Directors may determine, or without limit of time if the Board of Directors so determines, issue certificates for one or more whole shares upon the surrender of scrip for fractional shares aggregating the number of whole shares represented by the scrip so surrendered, provided that the scrip so surrendered shall be properly endorsed for transfer if in registered form.
20. The Board of Directors shall have power, in its absolute discretion, at any time, and from time to time, without any action by the stockholders of the Corporation and whether or not in connection with the issue or sale of any shares of stock or other securities of the Corporation, to grant rights entitling the holders thereof to purchase from the Corporation any shares of its capital stock. Any such rights shall be evidenced by such warrants or other instruments as shall be approved by the Board of Directors. The terms upon which, the time or times at or within which, and the price or prices, not less than the par value thereof, at which any such shares may be purchased or subscribed for upon the exercise of any such rights and the price or other consideration, if any, for which such rights shall be granted shall be such as shall be fixed and stated in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the granting thereof.
The duration of the corporate existence of the Corporation shall be perpetual.
ARTICLE VI.
The number of Directors of the Corporation constituting the entire Board of Directors shall not be less than nine or more than eighteen. The Board of Directors shall determine from time to time the number of Directors who shall constitute the entire Board of Directors. Any such determination made by the Board of Directors shall continue in effect unless and until changed by the Board of Directors, but no such changes shall affect the term of any Director then in office. Directors need not be stockholders.
ARTICLE VII.
Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders to serve one-year terms and until their successors shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified; provided,
 
 
however, that Directors serving on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders in 2008, including those elected at such meeting, shall continue to serve the remainder of their elected terms. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of Directors and any other vacancy on the Board may be filled only by the Board, provided that a quorum is then in office and present, or only by a majority of the Directors then in office, if less than a quorum is then in office, or by a sole remaining Director. Directors elected to fill a newly created directorship or other vacancies shall be classified and hold office as provided by statute.
The Directors of the Corporation may not be removed prior to the expiration date of their terms of office, except for cause and by an affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of all classes of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote for the Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting of stockholders, or at any Special Meeting of stockholders called by the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board or by the President for this purpose.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage or separate class vote may he specified by law, this Certificate of Incorporation, the By-Laws of the Corporation or otherwise), any proposal to amend, alter, repeal or adopt any provisions inconsistent with this or the preceding paragraphs of this Article VII, shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes or series of preferred stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect Directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall he governed by the terms of this Certificate of Incorporation applicable thereto.
No contract or other transaction entered into by the Corporation shall be affected by the fact that any Director of the Corporation is in any way interested in or connected with any party to such contract or transaction or himself is a party to such contract or transaction, provided that such contract or transaction shall be approved by a majority of the Directors present at the meeting authorizing or confirming such contract or transaction, which majority shall consist of Directors not so interested or connected.
Each Director of the Corporation shall be indemnified by the Corporation against expenses actually and necessarily incurred by him in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding in which he is made a party by reason of his being or having been a Director of the Corporation, except in relation to matters as to which he shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duties as such Director; provided that such right of indemnification shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a Director of the Corporation may be entitled, under any by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or otherwise.
The vote required for election of a director by the shareholders shall, except in a contested election, be the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against the election of a nominee at a meeting of shareholders. In a contested election, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares
 
 
entitled to vote in the election. An election shall be considered contested if, as of the record date, there are more nominees for election than positions on the board of directors to be filled by election at the meeting.
ARTICLE VIII.
A. The following definitions shall apply with respect to this Article VIII:
1. The term "Business Combination" shall mean:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. The term "Capital Stock" shall mean all capital stock of the Corporation authorized to be issued from time to time under Article V of this Certificate of Incorporation, and the term "Voting Stock" shall mean all Capital Stock which by its terms may be voted on all matters submitted to stockholders of the Corporation generally at the time in question.
3. The term "person" shall mean any individual, firm, company or other entity and shall include any group comprised of any person and any other person with whom such person or any Affiliate or Associate of such person has any agreement, arrangement or understanding, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of Capital Stock.
4. The term "Interested Stockholder" shall mean any person (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary and other than any pension, profit-sharing, employee stock ownership or other employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or any trustee of or fiduciary with respect to any such plan when acting in such capacity) who (a) is the beneficial owner of Voting Stock representing ten percent (10%) or more of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, or (b) is an Affiliate or Associate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question was the beneficial owner of Voting Stock representing ten percent (10%) or more of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all then outstanding shares of Voting Stock.
5. A person shall be a "beneficial owner" of any Capital Stock (a) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; (b) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has, directly or indirectly, (i) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or subject only to the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (ii) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; or (c) which is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person with which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding,
 
 
voting or disposing of any shares of Capital Stock. For the purposes of determining whether a person is an Interested Stockholder pursuant to Paragraph 4 of this Section A, the number of shares of Capital Stock deemed to be outstanding shall include shares deemed beneficially owned by such person through application of this Paragraph 5 of Section A, but shall not include any other shares of Capital Stock that may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
6. The term "Affiliate" means, an "affiliate" of, or a person "affiliated" with, a specified person, is a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified, and the term "Associate" controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified, and the term "Associate" means, when used to indicate a relationship with any person, means (1) any corporation or organization (other than the Corporation or a majority-owned subsidiary of the Corporation) of which such person is an officer or partner or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 10 percent or more of any class of equity securities, (2) any trust or other estate in which such person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, and (3) any relative or spouse of such person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such person or who is a director or officer of the Corporation or any of its parents or subsidiaries.
7. The term "Subsidiary" means any company (whether a corporation or a partnership) of which a majority of any class of equity or similar (in the case of a partnership) security is beneficially owned by the Corporation.
8. The term "Fair Market Value" means (a) in the case of cash, the amount of such cash; (b) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period in which the date in question (i.e., the Announcement Date or the Determination Date as hereinafter defined) is counted as the fifteenth day, of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange-Listed Stocks, or, if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if such stock is not listed on such exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Act on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any similar system then in use, during the 30-day period in which the date in question is counted as the fifteenth day or if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors at a time that a majority of the Board was comprised of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined); and (c) in the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors at a time when Disinterested Directors constitute a majority of the entire Board.
9. In the event of any Business Combination in which the Corporation survives, the phrase "consideration other than cash to be received" as used in Paragraphs 2.a and 2.b of Section C of this Article VIII shall include the shares of Common Stock and/or the shares of any other class or series of Capital Stock retained by the holders of such shares.
 
 
10. The term "Disinterested Director" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, while such person is a member of the Board of Directors, who is not the Interested Stockholder, an Affiliate or Associate or representative of the Interested Stockholder and was a member of the Board prior to the time the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder, and any successor of such Disinterested Director while such successor is a member of the Board of Directors who is not an Affiliate or Associate of the Interested Stockholder and was recommended for nomination or election to the Board by a majority of the Disinterested Directors then on the Board.
B. In addition to any affirmative vote required by law, this Certificate of Incorporation, the By-Laws of the Corporation or otherwise, and except as otherwise expressly provided in Section C of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall not engage, directly or indirectly, in any Business Combination with, or proposed by or on behalf of, an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder without the affirmative vote of (i) not less than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock voting together as a single class, and (ii) not less than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, excluding Voting Stock beneficially owned by such Interested Stockholder and its Affiliate and Associates, voting together as a single class. Such affirmative vote shall he required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage or separate class vote may be specified, by law, in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
C. The provisions of Section B of this Article VIII shall not he applicable to any particular Business Combination (and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote, if any, as is required by law, or any other provision of this Certificate of Incorporation, the By-Laws of the Corporation or otherwise) if all of the conditions specified in either of the following Paragraphs 1 or 2 are met, or, in the case of a Business Combination not involving the payment of consideration to the holders of the Corporation's outstanding Capital Stock, if the condition specified in the following Paragraph 1 is met.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The provisions of this Paragraph 2 shall be required to be met with respect to every class or series of outstanding Capital Stock, whether or not the Interested Stockholder has previously acquired beneficial ownership of any shares of a particular class or series of Capital Stock.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D. The Board of Directors at a time when Disinterested Directors constitute a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this Article VIII, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, all questions arising under this Article VIII, including (without limitation), (a) whether a person is an Interested Stockholder, (b) the number of shares of Capital Stock or other securities beneficially owned by any person, and (c) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another and (d) whether the assets that are the subject of any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination has an aggregate fair market value of $10 million or more. Any such determination made in good faith shall be binding and conclusive on all parties.
E. Nothing contained in this Article VIII shall be construed to relieve any Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
F. The fact that any Business Combination complies with the provisions of Section C of this Article VIII shall not be construed to impose any fiduciary duty, obligation or responsibility on the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, to approve such Business Combination or recommend its adoption or approval to the stockholders of the Corporation, nor shall such compliance limit, prohibit or otherwise restrict in any manner the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, with respect to evaluations of or actions and responses taken with respect to such Business Combination.
G. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage or separate class vote maybe specified by law, this Certificate of Incorporation, the By-Laws of the Corporation or otherwise), any proposal to amend, alter, or repeal or adopt any provision of this Certificate of Incorporation inconsistent with this Article VIII which is proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder shall require the affirmative vote of (i) not less than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares of Voting Stock voting together as a single class, and (ii) not less than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock (excluding Voting Stock beneficially owned by such Interested Stockholder and its Affiliates and its Associates) voting together as a single class; that this Section G shall not apply to, and such special votes shall not be required for, any amendment, repeal or adoption recommended by the Board of Directors at a time when Disinterested Directors constitute a majority of the entire Board of Directors.
provided, however,
. No director of the Corporation shall have personal liability to the Corporation or its stockholders for damages for any breach of duty in such capacity, provided that the foregoing shall not eliminate or limit the liability of any director if a judgment or other final adjudication adverse to him or her establishes that his or her acts or omissions
ARTICLE IX
 
 
were in bad faith or involved intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law or that he or she personally gained in fact a financial profit or other advantage to which he or she was not legally entitled or that his or her act violated Section 719 of the Business Corporation Law of New York. No amendment to or repeal of this Article IX shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal. If the Business Corporation Law of New York is amended hereafter to expand or limit liability of a director, then the liability of a director of the Corporation shall be expanded to the extent required or limited to the extent permitted by the Business Corporation Law of New York, as so amended.
6. This restated Certificate of Incorporation was authorized by the vote of a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a meeting held on May 12, 2008.
we have signed this certificate on the 12th day of May, 2008 and we affirm the statements contained therein as true under penalties of perjury.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S 1. The annual meeting of the Stockholders of the Corporation for the election of Directors, and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting, shall be held on such date and at such place within or without the State of New York as shall have been fixed by the Board of Directors on a timely basis.
ECTION
Annual Meeting.
S 2. Special meetings of the Stockholders, unless otherwise provided by statute, or by the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, at any time may be called or caused to be called by a majority of the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board, or by the President. Special meetings shall be held at such place within or without the State of New York as is specified in the call thereof.
ECTION
Special Meetings.
S 3. Unless otherwise required by statute, the notice of every meeting of the Stockholders shall be in writing and shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting. Notice of a special meeting shall also state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. A copy of the notice of any meeting shall be given personally, electronically or by mail, not less than ten nor more than fifty days before the date of the meeting, to each Stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting and to each Stockholder who, by reason of any action proposed at such meeting, is entitled by law to notice thereof. If mailed, it shall be directed to a Stockholder at his address as it appears on the record of Stockholders or, if he shall have filed with the Secretary of the Corporation a written request that notices to him be mailed to some other address, then directed to him at such other address. If transmitted electronically, such notice is given when directed to the Shareholder's electronic mail address as supplied by the Shareholder to the Secretary of the Corporation or as otherwise directed pursuant to the Shareholder's authorization or instructions.
ECTION
Notice of Meetings.
S 4. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, at any meeting of the Stockholders there must be present in person or by proxy the holders of record of stock representing at least one-third of the number of votes entitled to be cast upon any question to be considered at the meeting in order to constitute a quorum for the determination of such question, but a less interest may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting until a quorum be present, and thereupon any business may be transacted at the adjourned meeting which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law or by the By-Laws of the Corporation, a majority vote of a quorum at a meeting shall decide any question brought before such meeting. Every holder of record of stock of a class entitled to vote at a meeting shall be entitled to one vote for every share of such stock standing in his name on the books of the Corporation, and may vote either in person or by proxy.
ECTION
Quorum. Proxies. Voting.
S 5. At all meetings of the Stockholders the Chairman of the Board, or in his absence the President, or in his absence a Vice Chairman of the Board or a Vice President designated by the Board of Directors, or if none be present, the appointee of the meeting, shall preside. The Secretary of the Corporation, or in his absence an Assistant Secretary, or if none be present, the appointee of the Presiding Officer of the meeting, shall act as Secretary of the meeting.
ECTION
Presiding Officer and Secretary.
S 6. At each meeting of Stockholders at which Directors are to be elected the Presiding Officer shall appoint two Inspectors of Election who shall perform the duties required by the
ECTION
Inspectors.
 
statute at that meeting and any adjournment thereof. If any Inspector shall refuse to serve, or neglect to attend at the election or his office becomes vacant, the Presiding Officer shall appoint an Inspector in his place.
The Presiding Officer of any meeting may also appoint, at such meeting, two Inspectors with authority to count and report upon the votes cast at such meeting upon such questions (other than the election of Directors) as may be voted upon by ballot.
Inspectors shall be sworn.
S 7. No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee thereof, (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee thereof or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any Stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a Stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section and on the record date for the determination of Stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section.
ECTION
Stockholders' Meetings.
Business shall be brought before the annual meeting by any Stockholder of the Corporation by notice in writing delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, and received by such person not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one-hundred twenty (120) days prior to any meeting of the Stockholders.
At Stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter such Stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such Stockholder, (iii) the number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such Stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such Stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such Stockholder and any material interest of such Stockholder in such business and (v) a representation that such Stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of Stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section, provided, however, that once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any Stockholder of any such business. The Presiding Officer of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if such person should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
Nothing in this Section 7 shall be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act and to put before such meeting any proposals so included in the Corporation's proxy statement at his or her request.
For purposes of this Section 7 and Article II, Section 9, "public disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a communication sent by first class mail to Stockholders, in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Reuters Information Services, Inc., Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
S 1. Within the limits provided by the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, the Board of Directors shall determine from time to time the number of Directors who shall constitute the entire Board of Directors. Any such determination made by the Board of Directors shall continue in effect unless and until changed by the Board of Directors, but no such changes shall affect the term of any Director then in office and, in case any of the Directors then in office shall have been elected by holders of the Cumulative $4 Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of the Corporation filed May 31, 1946 pursuant to Section Thirty-six of the Stock Corporation law (hereafter in this Section 1 referred to as the "Certificate filed May 31, 1946"), no increase in the number of Directors then in office shall be made which would reduce the number of Directors then in office elected as aforesaid to less than one-third (or the nearest whole number thereto) of the total number of Directors then in office. The Board of Directors shall from time to time make such determinations pursuant to this Section 1 as shall be necessary or appropriate in order to ensure that, under any circumstances, the holders of each series of the Serial Preferred Stock shall be able, giving effect to all applicable provisions of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, and of these By-Laws (including, without limitation, the preceding sentence), duly and effectively to exercise any exclusive right conferred upon them by the Certificate of Incorporation or any certificate filed pursuant to law to elect Directors of the Corporation.
ECTION
Number. Election. Vacancies. Term of Office.
Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, at each annual meeting of the Stockholders, the successors to the class of Directors whose terms shall then expire, up to the number determined in accordance with the foregoing provisions and with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, in a contested election, shall be elected by ballot or by proxy by the holders of the Common Stock by a plurality of the votes cast at such election.
In any non-contested election of directors, any incumbent director who fails to receive the requisite affirmative majority of the votes cast by ballot or by proxy by the holders of the Common Stock for his or her re-election, shall immediately tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors will decide, through a process managed by the Governance Committee and excluding the nominee in question, whether to accept the resignation at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting. Unless the Board determines in its judgment that it is in the best interests of the Company for the director to remain on the Board, the Board shall accept the resignation. The Board's explanation of its decision not to accept the resignation shall be disclosed on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Except as otherwise provided by law or in the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law and except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, any vacancy in the Board occurring during the year, occurring as a result of an increase in the number of Directors who shall constitute the Board or any other vacancy, may be filled only by the vote of the Board provided that a quorum is then in office and present, or by a majority of the Directors then in office, if less than a quorum is then in office or by a sole remaining Director. Any vacancy in the Board occurring during the year with respect to Directors who may have been elected by holders of the Cumulative $4 Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate filed May 31, 1946 may only be filled by the holders of the Cumulative $4 Preferred Stock at a special meeting of such holders in the same manner as at an annual meeting.
Except as otherwise provided by statute, or in the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, the term of office of each Director heretofore or hereafter elected shall be from the time of his election and qualification until the next annual meeting following his election and until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified.
Directors need not be Stockholders.
 
S 2. Any Director may resign his office at any time by delivering his resignation in writing to the Corporation, and the acceptance of such resignation, unless required by the terms thereof, shall not be necessary to make such resignation effective.
ECTION
Resignations.
S 3. In case the entire Board of Directors shall die or resign, any Stockholder may call a special meeting in the same manner that the Chairman of the Board may call such meeting, and Directors for the unexpired terms may be elected at any such special meeting in the manner provided for their election at annual meetings.
ECTION
Method of Electing Entirely New Board.
S 4. Except as provided by law, or by the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate of the Corporation filed pursuant to law, or by these By-Laws, the powers, business and affairs of the Corporation shall be exercised and managed by the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Powers.
S 5. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such regular intervals and at such fixed time and place as from time to time may be determined by the Board, and no notice of such meetings shall be required.
ECTION
Meetings.
Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by direction of the Chairman of the Board, or of a Vice Chairman of the Board, or of the President, or of any two of the Directors for the time being in office.
The Secretary shall give notice of each special meeting by mailing the same not later than the second day before the meeting, or personally or by telegraphing or telephoning the same not later than the day before the meeting, to each Director, but such notice may be waived by any Director. The Chairman of the Board, or in his absence, the President, or in his absence, a Vice Chairman (to be designated by the persons present at the meeting in the event of more than one Vice Chairman being present) shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. If all of the aforesaid officers be absent or decline to act, the persons present may choose one of their number to act as chairman of the meeting.
At the first meeting held after the annual meeting of Stockholders, the Board of Directors shall elect the Executive Officers of the Corporation, each of whom shall hold his office until the next annual election of Officers and until another is elected and qualified in his stead, unless sooner removed.
Any Director may vote or act on behalf of the Corporation in contracting with any other company, notwithstanding he may be an Officer, Director or Stockholder therein.
Any one or more members of the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors of such Committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.
S 6. One-third of the total number of Directors determined pursuant to Section 1 of this Article as constituting the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if there shall be less than a quorum at any meeting of the Board, a majority of those present (or if only one be present, then that one) may adjourn the meeting from time to time and the meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice.
ECTION
Quorum.
S 7. The Board of Directors may appoint an Executive Committee and such other committee or committees as they may determine. Such committee or committees shall have such powers as shall be specified by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee, so far as permitted by law, may be vested with all of the powers of the Board of Directors when the Board of Directors is not in session. One-third of the total number of Directors appointed to a Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
ECTION
Committees.
 
S 8. Directors shall be entitled to reasonable compensation for their services. They may be paid a fixed salary and may also receive a fee for attendance at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any Committee of the Board. The amount of compensation shall be determined by resolution of the Board. Nothing herein contained shall preclude any Director from serving in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
ECTION
Compensation of Directors.
S 9. Nominations for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a meeting of the Stockholders may be made (a) by the Board, or on behalf of the Board by any nominating committee appointed by the Board, or (b) by any Stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a Stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section and on the record date for the determination of Stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section.
ECTION
Nominations.
Stockholder nominations shall be made by notice in writing delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, and received by such person not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one-hundred twenty (120) days prior to any meeting of the Stockholders called for the election of Directors.
Such notice shall set forth (a) as to each proposed nominee who is not an incumbent Director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of each nominee proposed in such notice, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of each such nominee, (iii) the number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by each such nominee, and (iv) any other information concerning the nominee that must be disclosed of nominees in proxy solicitations pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "Exchange Act") and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and (b) as to the Stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such Stockholder, (ii) the number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such Stockholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such Stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such Stockholder, (iv) a representation that such Stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such Stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice shall be accompanied by the written consent of each proposed nominee to serve as a Director of the Corporation. No person shall be eligible for election as a Director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
The Presiding Officer of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if such person should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
S 1. The Elected Officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors. The Elected Officers of the Corporation may include a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, and Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, a Secretary and such other Elected Officers as may be deemed necessary or desirable. Any two or more such offices may be held by the same person, except the offices of President and Secretary.
ECTION
General.
The Board of Directors, at any time and from time to time, may appoint or authorize the Chief Executive Officer, to appoint one or more Vice Presidents, a Controller, an Auditor, a Chief Tax Officer, one or more Assistant Treasurers and one or more Assistant Secretaries, and such other Officers or agents as may be deemed necessary or desirable, and may prescribe or authorize the Chief Executive Officer to prescribe the powers and duties of each, and fill any vacancy which may occur in any such office.
 
All Elected Officers shall be subject to removal at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors. All other Officers, and all heads of departments, managers, assistant managers, agents and employees of the Corporation, may be removed at any time, by vote of the Board of Directors, or by the Officer appointing them, or by any other superior Officers or any Committee thereunto authorized by the Board.
S 2. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Stockholders and of the Board of Directors. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Chairman of the Board.
S 3. A Vice Chairman of the Board, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the President, shall preside at meetings of the Stockholders and of the Board of Directors. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or by the chief executive officer of the Corporation. He shall be subject to the control of the Board of Directors and to the powers of the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
Vice Chairman of the Board.
S 4. The President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, shall preside at meetings of the Stockholders and of the Board of Directors. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or by the chief executive officer of the Corporation. He shall be subject to the control of the Board of Directors and to the powers of the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
President.
S 5. The chief executive officer shall have general charge of the business of the Corporation and the power to formulate all plans and policies in connection therewith, subject to the control of the Board of Directors. He shall keep the Board of Directors fully informed and shall freely consult with the Board concerning the business of the Corporation. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Chief Executive Officer.
S 6. Any Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or by the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
Vice Presidents.
S 7. The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the funds and securities of the Corporation and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are incident to the office of Treasurer, or as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or by the chief executive officer of the Corporation. He shall be subject to the control of the Board of Directors and to the powers of the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
Treasurer.
S 8. Any Assistant Treasurer shall perform such duties as the Treasurer or the chief executive officer of the Corporation or the Board of Directors may from time to time assign to him.
ECTION
Assistant Treasurers.
S 9. . The Secretary shall have the care and custody of the seal and minute books of the Corporation and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are incident to the office of Secretary or as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors. He shall be subject to the control of the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Secretary
S 10. Any Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties as the Secretary or the chief executive officer of the Corporation of the Board of Directors may from time to time assign to him.
ECTION
Assistant Secretaries.
 
S 11. If a Controller shall have been elected, he shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
Controller.
S 12. If an Auditor shall have been elected, he shall have full charge of the auditing of all accounts of every kind, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, and shall also perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer of the Corporation may from time to time direct.
ECTION
Auditor.
S 13. The Chief Tax Officer shall have responsibility for all tax matters of the Corporation, subject to control of the Board of Directors, and shall have such powers and perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer may from time to time direct.
ECTION
Chief Tax Officer.
S 1. The shares of each class of the capital stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates or shall be uncertificated. Each registered holder of shares, upon request to the Company, shall be provided with a certificate of stock representing the number of shares owned by such holder. Certificates of stock shall be issued in such forms, not inconsistent with law or with the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, as shall be approved by the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Certificates of Shares and Uncertificated Shares.
S 2. Transfers of shares shall only be made upon the books of the Corporation by the holder in person, or by the power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Corporation, and on the surrender and cancellation of the certificate or certificates of such shares properly assigned.
ECTION
Transfers of Shares of Stock.
The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make all such rules and regulations as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates of shares in the capital stock of the Corporation.
S 3. For the purpose of determining the Stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of Stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or for the purpose of determining Stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or the allotment of any rights, or for the purpose of any other action, the Board may fix, in advance, a date as the record for any such determination of Stockholders. Such date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action.
ECTION
Record Dates.
S 4. No certificate of shares in the capital stock of the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity, against such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, with such surety or security, if any, as shall be approved by the Treasurer or Secretary. Proper and legal evidence of such loss, theft or destruction shall be produced to the Treasurer or Secretary, if they require the same. The Treasurer or Secretary may (except as otherwise provided in any agreement executed and delivered on behalf of the Corporation and authorized by the Board of Directors) in their discretion refuse to issue such new certificate, save upon the order of the court having jurisdiction in such matters.
ECTION
Lost Certificates.
 
Dividends may be declared and paid out of funds of the Corporation legally available therefor as often and at such times and to such extent as the Board of Directors may determine, consistent with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law.
The seal of the Corporation shall consist of a flat-faced circular die with the name of the Corporation in a circle and the year of its incorporation in the center.
Any notice required by the By-Laws of the Corporation to be given to Directors or Stockholders for any meeting may be waived by any Director or Stockholder in writing, signed by such Director or Stockholder or by his attorney thereunto authorized, and filed with the Secretary of the Corporation.
Funds of the Corporation on deposit with banks shall be disbursed by checks or drafts signed by such officer or officers as the Board of Directors from time to time designate or by such person or persons as shall from time to time be designated either by the Board of Directors or by such officer or officers as the Board shall from time to time authorize so to do. Notes, drafts, acceptances, bills of exchange, or other obligation for the payment of money (other than checks and drafts on banks with which the Corporation has funds on deposit) made, accepted, or endorsed, shall be signed by such officer or officers or person or persons as the Board of Directors shall from time to time designate.
The Corporation shall indemnify each Officer or Director who is made, or threatened to be made, a party to any action by reason of the fact that he or she is or was an Officer or Director of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation in any capacity for the Corporation or any other enterprise, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. The Corporation may, so far as permitted by law, enter into an agreement to indemnify and advance expenses to any Officer or Director who is made, or threatened to be made, a party to any such action.
These By-Laws, or any of them, may be altered, amended, or repealed, and new By-Laws may be adopted, at any annual meeting of the Stockholders, or at any special meeting called for that purpose, by a vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote thereat. The Board of Directors shall have the power, by a majority vote of the whole Board, to alter or amend or repeal these By-Laws, but any such action of the Board of Directors may be amended or repealed by the Stockholders at any annual meeting.
 
I, M.J.A. "Jekka" Pinckney, a duly appointed Assistant Secretary of International Paper Company, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, hereby certify that the foregoing comprises a true and complete copy of the By-Laws of said International Paper Company as amended to the date hereof, and that the same in force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of said International Paper Company this 13th day of May, 2008.
 
 


