FILE:IP/IP-8K-20080528092823.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In connection with the pending acquisition of the containerboard, packaging and recycling business (the "CBPR Business") of Weyerhaeuser Company by International Paper Company (the "Company"), the following financial statements are attached:
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of International Paper Company is provided:
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 28, 2008

Exhibit 23.1
The Board of Directors and Shareholders Weyerhaeuser Company:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement (No. 333-132259) on Form S-3, as amended, and registration statements No. 033-61335, 333-01667, 333-75235, 333-37390, 333-85830, 333-85828, 333-85826, 333-85824, 333-85822, 333-85818, 333-85820, 333-108046, 333-120293, 333-129011, and 333-145459 on Form S-8, of International Paper Company of our audit report dated March 19, 2008, with respect to the combined balance sheets of Weyerhaeuser Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling Business (a Business Unit of Weyerhaeuser Company) as of December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, and the related combined statements of operations, business unit equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 30, 2007, which report appears in the Form 8-K of International Paper Company dated May 28, 2008 and to the reference to our firm under the heading "Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in the prospectus supplement.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Seattle, Washington May 27, 2008

Exhibit 23.2
May 27, 2008 Weyerhaeuser Company Federal Way, Washington
With respect to the subject registration statements, we acknowledge our awareness of the use therein of our report dated May 8, 2008 related to our review of interim financial information.
Pursuant to Rule 436 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act), such report is not considered part of a registration statement prepared or certified by an independent registered public accounting firm, or a report prepared or certified by an independent registered public accounting firm within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of the Act.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Seattle, Washington

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders Weyerhaeuser Company:
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of Weyerhaeuser Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling Business (a Business Unit of Weyerhaeuser Company) as of December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, and the related combined statements of operations, business unit equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 30, 2007. These combined financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Weyerhaeuser Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling Business (a Business Unit of Weyerhaeuser Company) as of December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 30, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Seattle, Washington March 19, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Background and nature of operations:
The Business Unit consists of containerboard mills, packaging plants, recycling facilities and related assets of Weyerhaeuser Company ("WY"). These facilities are principally engaged in the manufacture, distribution and sale of packaging products, containerboard, and wastepaper recycling.
The Business Unit manages its business as a highly integrated system, which includes raw material sourcing through recycling operations, containerboard production at mills, and plants that produce a full line of packaging products. Business Unit management evaluates performance of the system as a whole, benchmarks the Business Unit against other integrated containerboard and packaging businesses and manages production capacity at the system level. As such, the Business Unit is the sole operating segment as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 131,
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.
2. Significant accounting policies:
 
 
 
 
 
balance sheet and income statement approach and evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement as material, when all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are considered. The implementation of SAB 108 did not have a material effect on the Business Unit's combined financial statements.
The FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, in June 2006. Interpretation 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with Statement 109. The Interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The Interpretation also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. Interpretation 48 did not have a material effect on the Business Unit's financial position and results of operations when the Interpretation was adopted in the first quarter of 2007.
Uncertainty in income taxes
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income TaxesAn Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,
In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position AUG AIR-1, ("FSP AUG AIR-1"). FSP AUG AIR-1 amends the guidance on accounting for planned major maintenance activities; specifically it precludes the use of the previously acceptable "accrue in advance" method. The Business Unit applied the "accrue in advance" method of accounting for planned annual maintenance costs in its primary manufacturing mills through 2006 for the purpose of allocating major maintenance costs to each of the quarters within a year. The Business Unit adopted FSP AUG AIR-1 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. The implementation of this standard did not have an effect on the Business Unit's combined financial position or annual results of operations for annual periods.
Accounting for planned major maintenance activities
Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities
The adoption of the following recent accounting pronouncements did not have a material effect on the Business Unit's results of operations or financial condition:
 
3. Inventories:
4. Property, plant and equipment:
In 2007, the Business Unit sold the real estate at its Cerritos, CA packaging facility for $32 million and recognized a gain of $29 million.
5. Goodwill:
 
The tax adjustments above were related to the reduction in acquired tax uncertainties assumed as part of the acquisition of Willamette Industries.
6. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities:
7. Income taxes:
Provisions for income taxes include the following:
The provisions for income taxes of the Business Unit differ from the amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate of 35% to operating income (loss) due to the following:
 
During 2007, the Business Unit recognized a one-time deferred tax charge of $9 million resulting from the Flat Rate Business Tax reform in Mexico. During 2006, the Business Unit recognized a one-time deferred tax benefit of $2 million resulting from a change in the Texas state tax rate. During 2005, the Business Unit recognized a one-time deferred tax benefit of $4 million resulting from a change in the Ohio state income tax. The benefits were due to the effect of the lower tax rates on accumulated temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets (liabilities) are comprised of the following:
As of December 30, 2007, the Business Unit had state credit carryforwards of $64 million, $46 million of which do not expire, with the remaining expiring from 2008 to 2016.
In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during periods in which temporary differences become deductible. Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Management believes that it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the net deferred tax assets.
The valuation allowance increased $7 million during the year ended December 30, 2007 due primarily to an increase in state credit carryforwards.
The Business Unit adopted the provisions of Interpretation 48 in the first quarter of 2007. The Business Unit's unrecognized tax benefits are inconsequential.
 
8. Cumulative other comprehensive income:
Business Unit equity contains the following items:
9. Related party transactions:
The Business Unit engages in various transactions with WY that are characteristic of a consolidated group under common control. The receipts, disbursements and net cash position of the Business Unit are currently managed by WY through a centralized treasury system. Accordingly, both cash generated by and cash requirements of the Business Unit flow through Business Unit equity in the accompanying combined financial statements of the Business Unit.
Expenses in the amount of $164 million, $157 million and $147 million of WY were allocated to the Business Unit for the years ended December 30, 2007, December 31, 2006 and December 25, 2005, respectively. See notes 2(a) and 11 for nature of costs allocated and the allocation methodologies.
The Business Unit purchased the following from WY at current market values:
The Business Unit sold the following to WY at current market values:
10. Share-based compensation plan:
Some of the Business Unit's employees participate in the Incentive Compensation Plan. The Incentive Compensation Plan provides for the award of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance share units. The exercise prices of stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the Incentive Compensation Plan are required to be at market price on the date of grant.
 
WY applied the intrinsic value method for stock-based compensation to employees prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25 through December 25, 2005.
Compensation costs required to be disclosed by Statement 123 would have an immaterial effect on the Business Unit's results from operations for 2005. As disclosed in note 2(m), Statement 123R required WY to measure the fair value as of the grant dates of employee awards issued, modified, repurchased or cancelled after December 25, 2005 and to recognize the resulting cost in the combined statements of operations over the service period. In the years ended December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, the Business Unit recognized compensation cost for share-based compensation of $5 million and $2 million, respectively.
11. Employee benefit plans:
The Business Unit adopted the provisions of Statement 158 as of December 31, 2006, which requires that the funded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans be presented on the balance sheet. See note 2(t).
 
WY funds its registered pension plans. No funding of the Albany Plan and the Mexico Plan is expected in 2008.
The Business Unit estimates the projected benefit payments as of December 30, 2007 under the Albany Plan and the Mexico Plan over the next ten years will be as follows:
The accumulated benefit obligation for the Albany Plan and Mexico Plan was $51 million at December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006.
The funded status of the Albany Plan and Mexico Plan and amounts recognized in the combined balance sheet is as follows:
 
Pretax amounts included in cumulative other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:
It is estimated that $1 million will be amortized from other comprehensive income during 2008.
The components of net periodic benefit income for the Albany Plan and Mexico Plan are as follows:
Qualified plans
The strategy of the United States pension trust is to invest directly and via total return partnership swaps in a diversified mix of nontraditional strategies, including hedge funds, private equity, opportunistic real estate and other externally managed alternative investment funds. Equity index and fixed income derivative instruments are used to supplement the market exposures embedded in such investments. These additional financial instruments constitute indirect investments held by the United States pension trust that serve to increase the return and risk profile of the investment portfolio. The overall return earned by the pension trust is the aggregate of returns earned on direct investments and returns earned on the derivatives. WY has not established target allocations for the direct investment portfolio or the derivatives.
The qualified plans are exposed to the risk of nonperformance by counterparties to the indirect investments but WY does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations. However, because there are no exchanges of principal on the indirect investments, only the amount of unsettled net receivables is at risk. WY manages this risk through selection of counterparties with a defined minimum credit quality, diversification, settlement provisions and documented agreements. Investments in hedge funds and private partnerships are controlled through selection and diversification of managers and strategies and use of limited liability vehicles. Portfolio risk is managed through diversification and by constraining the risk profile of the portfolio within defined boundaries.
 
The assets of the Albany Plan are held in a master trust that also holds assets of other WY-sponsored plans. The allocation of the net assets held by the master trust is as follows:
The assets of the Mexico Plan are immaterial.
The assumptions used in the measurement of the Albany Plan's benefit obligations are as follows:
The assumptions used in the measurement of the Mexico Plan's benefit obligations are as follows:
The assumptions used in the measurement of the Albany Plan's net pension costs are as follows:
The assumptions used in the measurement of the Mexico Plan's net pension costs are as follows:
 
12. Derivatives:
 
13. Asset retirement obligations:
The Business Unit's asset retirement obligations principally include landfill capping obligations and asbestos removal obligations. The Business Unit has recorded $6 million at December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 for its asset retirement obligations. The majority of the asset retirement obligations are estimated to be settled by 2030.
The Business Unit has not recognized a liability under Interpretation 47 for certain legal obligations, primarily special handling for the removal and disposal of encapsulated asbestos from facilities and equipment. The fair value cannot be reasonably estimated because the settlement dates are unknown.
14. Legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies:
 
15. Charges for restructuring and closure of facilities:
 
Closure charges recognized in 2005 include costs related to the closure of a containerboard machine, seven corrugated converting plants and a bag plant.
The Business Unit does not expect to incur any additional material charges related to these closures. Charges for closure of facilities include:
Changes in accrued termination benefits related to facility closures during the years ended December 30, 2007, December 31, 2006 and December 25, 2005 were as follows:
16. Geographical areas:
The Business Unit attributes sales to and revenues from customers in different geographical areas on the basis of the location of the customer.
Export sales from the United States consist principally of containerboard. Long-lived assets consist of goodwill and property and equipment used in the generation of revenues in the different geographical areas.
Selected information related to the Business Unit's operations by geographical area is as follows:
 
17. Subsequent events:
In March 2008, WY entered into an agreement to sell the Business Unit to International Paper, a publicly traded global paper and packaging company, for $6 billion in cash.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders Weyerhaeuser Company:
We have reviewed the combined balance sheet of Weyerhaeuser Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling Business (a Business Unit of Weyerhaeuser Company) as of March 30, 2008, and the related combined statements of operations, business unit equity, and cash flows for the thirteen-week periods ended March 30, 2008 and April 1, 2007. These combined financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
We conducted our reviews in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the combined financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We have previously audited, in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the combined balance sheet of Weyerhaeuser Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling Business (a Business Unit of Weyerhaeuser Company) as of December 30, 2007, and the related combined statements of operations, business unit equity and cash flows for the year then ended (not presented herein); and in our report dated March 19, 2008, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those combined financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying combined balance sheet as of December 30, 2007, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the combined balance sheet from which it has been derived.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Seattle, Washington May 8, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Basis of Presentation:
These combined financial statements include the accounts of the containerboard, packaging, and recycling operations of Weyerhaeuser Company ("WY"). All significant transactions and balances between operations within the Business Unit have been eliminated.
The accompanying unaudited combined financial statements and notes to combined financial statements reflect all adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the Business Unit's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods presented. Except as otherwise disclosed in the notes to the combined financial statements, such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. The combined financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission pertaining to interim financial statements; as such certain disclosures normally provided in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted. These combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited combined financial statements of the Business Unit for the year ended December 30, 2007.
Financial statements historically have not been prepared for the Business Unit. The accompanying combined financial statements have been derived from historical accounting records of WY. The historical operating results and cash flows of the Business Unit may not be indicative of what they would have been had the Business Unit been a stand-alone entity, nor are they necessarily indicative of what the Business Unit's operating results and cash flows may be in the future. The combined statements of operations for the Business Unit include allocations of certain costs from WY directly related to the operations of the Business Unit.
In March 2008, WY entered into an agreement to sell the Business Unit to International Paper, a publicly traded global paper and packaging company, for $6 billion in cash. All costs incurred by WY in conjunction with this transaction are not included in these carve out financial statements as they are considered costs of WY and not directly related to the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Business Unit.
2. Accounting Pronouncements:
Prospective accounting pronouncements:
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157, . Statement 157 provides a common definition of fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosure about such fair value measurements. Statement 157 will apply prospectively to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis as of the beginning of 2009 and applies to all other fair value measurements as of the beginning of 2008. The provisions of Statement 157 adopted at the beginning of 2008 did not have a material effect on the Business Unit's combined financial statements. The primary items that will be affected by the remaining provisions of Statement 157 are the Business Unit's annual goodwill impairment test and long-lived asset impairment tests. While it is unable to forecast the amount of impairment charges that might be recognized in future periods, the Business Unit does not expect Statement 157 to materially change the fair value amounts that will be calculated in the future relative to the fair value amounts that would be calculated if Statement 157 were not adopted.
Fair value measurements
Fair Value Measurements
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 141 (revised 2007), and Statement No. 160, . Statement 141R will change how business combinations are accounted for and will affect financial statements both on the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. Statement 160 will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. Statement 141R and Statement 160 are effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Statement 141R will be applied prospectively. Statement 160 requires retroactive adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing minority interests. All other requirements of Statement 160 will be applied prospectively. Early adoption is prohibited for both standards. The Business Unit is currently evaluating the requirements of Statement 141R and Statement 160 and has not yet determined the effect on its financial statements.
Business combinations and noncontrolling interests
Business Combinations
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 161, . Statement 161 requires companies to disclose the fair value of derivative instruments and their gains or losses in tabular format and information about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements, counterparty credit risk, and strategies and objectives for using derivative instruments. Statement 161 requires prospective adoption for interim periods and fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Business Unit is currently evaluating the requirements of Statement 161 and has not yet determined the effect on its financial statements.
Disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
3. Inventories:
4. Employee benefit plans:
The Business Unit participates in several retirement programs for its employees which are sponsored by WY. This includes pension plans that are qualified under the Internal Revenue Code ("qualified") as well as a plan that provides benefits in addition to those provided under the qualified plans for a select group of employees, which is not qualified under the Internal Revenue Code ("unqualified"). WY also provides benefits under a postretirement health care and life insurance plan to eligible salaried employees. Benefits provided under the postretirement health care and life insurance plan are currently funded by the general assets of WY. The measurement date for all plans sponsored by WY is the end of the fiscal year.
Other than one U.S. pension plan ("Albany Plan") and one Mexican pension plan ("Mexico Plan"), management determined that it was not practical to allocate a portion of WY's pension assets or to prepare detailed employee benefit plan disclosures for the stand-alone combined financial statements of the Business Unit in a manner that would be consistent with the level of detail provided in WY's consolidated financial statements.
The Business Unit recognized net pension income of $13 million and post retirement benefits expense of $5 million for total income of $8 million during the thirteen-weeks ended March 30, 2008, compared to a total expense of $2 million during the thirteen-week period ended April 1, 2007.
 
The components of net periodic benefit income for the Albany Plan and Mexico Plan are as follows:
5. Legal proceedings, commitments and contingencies:

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presents the combined historical consolidated statements of operations and consolidated balance sheet of International Paper Company ("") and the historical combined statements of operations and combined balance sheet of the containerboard, packaging and recycling business of Weyerhaeuser Company (the "") to reflect International Paper's proposed acquisition of the CBPR business (the ""). The historical financial statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which we refer to as GAAP. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented in accordance with the rules specified by Article 11 of promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and has been prepared using the assumptions described in the notes thereto. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet gives effect to the Acquisition as if it had occurred as of the balance sheet date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations give effect to the Acquisition as if it had occurred as of January 1, 2007.
International Paper
CBPR business
Acquisition
Regulation S-X
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented:
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the notes thereto and the historical combined financial statements of the CBPR business, including the notes thereto, which were filed as an exhibit to International Paper's Current Report on dated as of and filed on May 28, 2008, as well as in conjunction with International Paper's historical consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2007 (as updated by its Current Report on filed on May 9, 2008) and its Quarterly Report on for the three months ended March 31, 2008.
Form 8-K
Form 10-K
Form 8-K
Form 10-Q
 
International Paper expects to finance the Acquisition with debt financing, consisting of a five-year term loan facility (the "Term Loan A Facility") in an aggregate principal amount of up to $2 billion and a one-year term loan facility (the "Term Loan X Facility") with a extension option in an aggregate principal amount of up to $4 billion (together, the "Acquisition Credit Facilities"). Under certain circumstances, the aggregate principal amount of the Term Loan A Facility and the aggregate principal amount of the Term Loan X may be changed, so long as the aggregate principal amount of the Acquisition Credit Facilities is not changed. The aggregate principal amount of notes issued by International Paper prior to the closing of the Acquisition will reduce dollar-for-dollar the aggregate amount of commitments of the Acquisition Credit Facilities, first with respect to the Term Loan X Facility, and second with respect to the Term Loan A Facility.
6-month
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations of the combined company. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not give effect to any potential cost savings or other operational efficiencies that could result from the Acquisition. In addition, the preliminary estimated allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired was based on initial International Paper valuations and estimates since the Acquisition has not progressed to a stage where there is sufficient information to make a definitive allocation. Accordingly, the purchase price allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been presented solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 17, 2008, International Paper announced that it had signed an agreement with Weyerhaeuser Company to purchase the CBPR business for approximately $6 billion in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. International Paper expects to finance the Acquisition with debt financing. Upon completion of the Acquisition, International Paper will account for the Acquisition as a purchase in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Under the purchase method, International Paper will record the assets and liabilities of the CBPR business at their respective fair values as of the Acquisition date. The preliminary estimated allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired reflected in Note 2 below was based on initial valuations and estimates since the Acquisition has not progressed to a stage where there is sufficient information to make a definitive allocation. Accordingly, these purchase price allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary.
 
 
The following adjustments have been reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet:
 
(a) Represents the elimination of assets and liabilities related to locations included in the historical CBPR business financial information that will not be acquired by International Paper.
 
(b) Represents the elimination of a $76 million LIFO inventory reserve related to the CBPR business to value these inventories at preliminary estimated fair value as of the Acquisition date.
 
(c) Represents the payment of debt issuance costs and Acquisition costs in cash.
 
(d) Represents an adjustment to value plants, properties and equipment acquired at the preliminary estimated fair value as of the Acquisition date.
 
(e) Represents the elimination of the CBPR business pre-Acquisition goodwill.
 
(f) Represents $6.0 billion of long-term debt to finance the Acquisition, and the capitalization of $50 million of related debt issuance costs.
 
(g) Represents the elimination of the CBPR business pre-Acquisition deferred taxes.
 
(h) Represents the assumption by International Paper of a liability from Weyerhaeuser Company for CBPR business workers' compensation claims prior to the Acquisition.
 
(i) Represents the elimination of the CBPR business equity.
 
The following adjustments have been reflected in the respective unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations:
 
(j) Represents the elimination of amounts related to locations included in the historical CBPR business financial information that will not be acquired by International Paper.
 
(k) Represents the elimination of sales between the CBPR business and International Paper.
 
(l) Represents additional depreciation resulting from the preliminary adjustment of the CBPR business' plants, properties and equipment to estimated fair value as of the Acquisition date based on a preliminary estimated average useful life of 14 years.
 
(m) Represents preliminary estimated additional interest expense of approximately $93 million for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and $416 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 for debt incurred in connection with the Acquisition based on LIBOR, adjusted quarterly, plus an assumed margin of 162.5 basis points, plus the straight-line amortization of debt issuance costs incurred to finance the Acquisition over the term of the related debt.
 
(n) Represents the tax effect of the above pro forma adjustments based upon a combined statutory federal and state tax rate of 38%.


