FILE:IP/IP-8K-20090227140437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to file certain historical and pro forma financial information relating to the Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling business (the "CBPR Business") of Weyerhaeuser Company which was acquired by International Paper Company (the "Company"), on August 4, 2008. The following financial statements are attached:
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of International Paper Company is provided:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 27, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
February 25, 2009
Weyerhaeuser Company
Federal Way, Washington
Re: Registration Statement No. 333-132259 on Form S-3, as amended, and Registration Statements Nos. 033-61335, 333-01667, 333-75235, 333-37390, 333-85830, 333-85828, 333-85826, 333-85824, 333-85822, 333-85818, 333-85820, 333-108046, 333-120293, 333-129011, 333-145459, 333-154522 and 333-154523 on Form S-8  International Paper Company.
With respect to the subject registration statements, we acknowledge our awareness of the use therein of our report dated August 7, 2008 related to our review of interim financial information.
Pursuant to Rule 436 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act), such report is not considered part of a registration statement prepared or certified by an independent registered public accounting firm, or a report prepared or certified by an independent registered public accounting firm within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of the Act.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Seattle, Washington

Exhibit 99.1
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Weyerhaeuser Company:
We have reviewed the combined balance sheet of Weyerhaeuser Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling Business (a Business Unit of Weyerhaeuser Company) as of June 29, 2008, and the related combined statements of operations for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended June 29, 2008 and July 1, 2007, and the related combined statements of business unit equity, and cash flows for the twenty-six week periods ended June 29, 2008 and July 1, 2007. These combined financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
We conducted our reviews in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the combined financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the combined balance sheet of Weyerhaeuser Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling Business (a Business Unit of Weyerhaeuser Company) as of December 30, 2007, and the related combined statements of operations, business unit equity and cash flows for the year then ended (not presented herein); and in our report dated March 19, 2008, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those combined financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying combined balance sheet as of December 30, 2007, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the combined balance sheet from which it has been derived.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Seattle, Washington
August 7, 2008
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.
 
 
These combined financial statements include the accounts of the containerboard, packaging, and recycling operations of Weyerhaeuser Company (WY). All significant transactions and balances between operations within the Business Unit have been eliminated.
The accompanying unaudited combined financial statements and notes to combined financial statements reflect all adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the Business Unit's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods presented. Except as otherwise disclosed in the notes to the combined financial statements, such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. The combined financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission pertaining to interim financial statements; as such certain disclosures normally provided in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted. These combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited combined financial statements of the Business Unit for the year ended December 30, 2007.
Financial statements historically have not been prepared for the Business Unit. The accompanying combined financial statements have been derived from historical accounting records of WY. The historical operating results and cash flows of the Business Unit may not be indicative of what they would have been had the Business Unit been a stand-alone entity, nor are they necessarily indicative of what the Business Unit's operating results and cash flows may be in the future. The combined statements of operations for the Business Unit include allocations of certain costs from WY directly related to the operations of the Business Unit.
In March 2008, WY entered into an agreement to sell the Business Unit to International Paper, a publicly traded global paper and packaging company, for $6 billion in cash. This transaction closed on August 4, 2008. All costs incurred by WY in conjunction with this transaction are not included in these carve out financial statements as they are considered costs of WY and not directly related to the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Business Unit.
 
Prospective accounting pronouncements:
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157, . Statement 157 provides a common definition of fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosure about such fair value measurements. Statement 157 will apply prospectively to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis as of the beginning of 2009 and applies to all other fair value measurements as of the beginning of 2008. The provisions of Statement 157 adopted at the beginning of 2008 did not have a material
Fair Value Measurements
 
 
effect on the Business Unit's combined financial statements. The primary items that will be affected by the remaining provisions of Statement 157 are the Business Unit's annual goodwill impairment test and long-lived asset impairment tests. While it is unable to forecast the amount of impairment charges that might be recognized in future periods, the Business Unit does not expect Statement 157 to materially change the fair value amounts that will be calculated in the future relative to the fair value amounts that would be calculated if Statement 157 were not adopted.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 141 (revised 2007), and Statement No. 160, . Statement 141R will change how business combinations are accounted for and will affect financial statements both on the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. Statement 160 will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. Statement 141R and Statement 160 are effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Statement 141R will be applied prospectively. Statement 160 requires retroactive adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing minority interests. All other requirements of Statement 160 will be applied prospectively. Early adoption is prohibited for both standards. The Business Unit is currently evaluating the requirements of Statement 141R and Statement 160 and has not yet determined the effect on its financial statements.
Business Combinations
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 161, . Statement 161 requires companies to disclose the fair value of derivative instruments and their gains or losses in tabular format and information about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements, counterparty credit risk, and strategies and objectives for using derivative instruments. Statement 161 requires prospective adoption for interim periods and fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Business Unit is currently evaluating the requirements of Statement 161 and has not yet determined the effect on its financial statements.
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
 
 
 
The Business Unit participates in several retirement programs for its employees which are sponsored by WY. This includes pension plans that are qualified under the Internal Revenue Code (qualified) as well as a plan that provides benefits in addition to those provided under the qualified plans for a select group of employees, which is not qualified under the Internal Revenue Code (unqualified). WY also provides benefits under a postretirement health care and life insurance plan to eligible employees. Benefits provided under the postretirement health care and life insurance plan are currently funded by the general assets of WY. The measurement date for all plans sponsored by WY is the end of the fiscal year.
Other than one U.S. pension plan (Albany Plan) and one Mexican pension plan (Mexico Plan), management determined that it was not practical to allocate a portion of WY's pension assets or to prepare detailed employee benefit plan disclosures for the stand-alone combined financial statements of the Business Unit in a manner that would be consistent with the level of detail provided in WY's consolidated financial statements.
The Business Unit recognized net pension income of $9 million and $22 million and postretirement benefits expense of $5 million and $10 million for total income of $4 million and $12 million during the thirteen-week and twenty-six week periods ended June 29, 2008, respectively, compared to total income of $6 million and $4 million during the thirteen-week and twenty-six week periods ended July 1, 2007, respectively.
 
 
The components of net periodic benefit income for the Albany Plan and Mexico Plan are as follows:
 
During the second quarter of 2008, WY announced amendments to its postretirement medical and life insurance benefit plans for U.S. salaried employees that reduce or eliminate certain medical and life insurance benefits that are available to both past and present employees. These changes reduce amounts that WY expects to pay in the future to fund the benefit plans and resulted in a significant decrease in WY postretirement liabilities. The Business Unit recognized an $11 million curtailment gain for full recognition of a pre-existing prior service credit.
The discount rate used to remeasure the postretirement plans' liabilities was changed from a rate of 6.5% at December 30, 2007, to rates reflective of current bond rates on the date of remeasurement. A rate of 7.0% was used to measure the elimination of medical plan benefits for current employees who won't meet eligibility requirements by January 1, 2010 and a rate of 6.6% was used to measure the ongoing plan benefits, as amended, for those employees and retirees who meet the eligibility requirements.
 
 
 
 
 
The Business Unit is subject to claims and other litigation matters that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. Although the final outcome of any legal proceeding is subject to a great many variables and cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty, management currently believes that the ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Business Unit's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
 
The Business Unit is a party to various proceedings relating to the cleanup of hazardous waste sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as "Superfund," and similar state laws. The EPA and/or various state agencies have notified the Business Unit that it may be a potentially responsible party with respect to other hazardous waste sites as to which no proceedings have been instituted against the Business Unit. As of June 29, 2008, the Business Unit has established reserves totaling $2 million for estimated remediation costs on the three active sites across its operations. Environmental remediation reserves totaled $1 million at the end of 2007. Based on currently available information and analysis, the Business Unit believes that it is reasonably possible that costs associated with all identified sites may exceed current accruals by up to $3 million, which may be incurred over several years. This estimate of the upper end of the range of reasonably possible additional costs is much less certain than the estimates upon which accruals are currently based, and utilizes assumptions less favorable to the Business Unit among the range of reasonably possible outcomes. In estimating both its current accruals for environmental remediation and the possible range of additional future costs, the Business Unit has assumed that it will not bear the entire cost of remediation of every site to the exclusion of other known potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other potentially responsible parties to participate has been taken into account, generally based on each party's financial condition and probable contribution on a per-site basis. No amounts have been recorded for potential recoveries from insurance carriers.
 

Exhibit 99.2
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presents the combined historical consolidated statement of operations of International Paper Company ("International Paper") and the historical combined statement of operations of Weyerhaeuser Company's Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling business ("CBPR business") to reflect the acquisition of the CBPR business by International Paper (the "Acquisition"). These historical financial statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented in accordance with the rules specified by Article 11 of Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC, and has been prepared using the assumptions described in the notes thereto. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations gives effect to the Acquisition as if it had occurred as of the beginning of the period presented.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the notes thereto and the historical combined financial statements of the CBPR business, including the notes thereto, which were filed as exhibits to International Paper's Current Reports on Form 8-K dated May, 28, 2008 and February 27, 2009, as well as in conjunction with International Paper's historical consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations of the combined company. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not give effect to any potential cost savings or other operational efficiencies that could result from the Acquisition. In addition, the preliminary estimated allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired was based on initial valuations and estimates. Accordingly, the purchase price allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been presented solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
The historical combined statements of operations of the CBPR business presented herein represent the results of operations for the CBPR business for the thirty-one week period ended August 3, 2008. The Acquisition was completed on August 4, 2008. Results of operations for the CBPR business since August 4, 2008, are included in the historical results of operations of International Paper for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
1. Basis of Presentation
On March 17, 2008, International Paper Company ("International Paper") announced that it had signed an agreement with Weyerhaeuser Company to purchase its Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling business ("CBPR business") for approximately $6 billion in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. International Paper completed the acquisition on August 4, 2008. In June 2008, International Paper issued $3 billion of unsecured senior notes in anticipation of the acquisition with an average fixed interest rate of 7.84%. The remainder of the purchase price was financed through borrowings under a $2.5 billion bank term loan with an interest rate based on LIBOR plus a margin of 162.5 basis points, borrowings under a receivables securitization program and existing cash balances. The CBPR business became part of International Paper's North American Industrial Packaging business. International Paper is accounting for the acquisition as a purchase in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Under the purchase method, the assets and liabilities of the CBPR business will be recorded as of the acquisition date at their respective fair values.
2. Pro Forma Financial Information
 
 
The following adjustments have been reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations:
 
 
 
 
 


