FILE:IP/IP-8K-20090512171556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Resignation of Director in accordance with Corporate Governance Principles
(b) Our Corporate Governance Principles require a director to tender his or her resignation for consideration by the Governance Committee upon a substantial change in principal occupation or business association. On May 1, 2009, Martha Brooks tendered her resignation for consideration in light of her retirement as President and Chief Operating Officer of Novelis Inc. effective May 8, 2009.
On May 11, 2009, the Board of Directors, acting on the recommendation of the Governance Committee, accepted her resignation.
2009 Incentive Compensation Plan approved by Shareowners
(e) On May 11, 2009, the shareowners of the Company approved the 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). A description of the Plan was included in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 9, 2009 (the "Definitive Proxy"). The Company incorporates by reference the description of the Plan that appears under the heading "Item 4  Company Proposal to Approve the 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan" in the Definitive Proxy.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On May 11, 2009, the shareowners of the Company approved an amendment (the "Amendment") to the Company's By-Laws. The Amendment was described in detail in our Definitive Proxy. Our By-Laws, as amended through May 11, 2009, are attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 12, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S 1. The annual meeting of the Stockholders of the Corporation for the election of Directors, and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting, shall be held on such date and at such place within or without the State of New York as shall have been fixed by the Board of Directors on a timely basis.
ECTION
Annual Meeting.
S 2. Special meetings of the Stockholders, unless otherwise provided by statute, or by the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, at any time may be called or caused to be called by a majority of the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board, or by the President, or upon the written request therefore of Stockholders holding no less than forty percent of the Common Stock of the Company, filed with the Secretary pursuant to these By-Laws. In the event a special meeting is requested properly by Stockholders holding not less than forty percent of the Common Stock of the Company and such request meets all applicable requirements set forth in these By-Laws, any applicable statute, the Certificate of Incorporation and any other certificate filed pursuant to law, then either a majority of the Board of Directors, or the Chairman of the Board, or the President shall cause such a special meeting to be called in a manner consistent with applicable statute, the Certificate of Incorporation and any other certificate filed pursuant to law. A Stockholder's written request for a special meeting shall include the information required under Article I, Section 7 or Article II, Section 9 of these By-Laws, as applicable with respect to the business and/or nominations proposed to be brought before such special meeting and the Stockholder(s) proposing such business and/or nominations at such meeting. Special meetings shall be held at such place within or without the State of New York as shall have been fixed by the Board of Directors and specified in the call thereof. Business transacted at a special meeting requested by Stockholders shall be limited to the purpose(s) stated in the request for meeting, provided, however, that the Board of Directors shall have the authority in its discretion to submit additional matters to the Stockholders, and to cause other business to be transacted, at any special meeting requested by Stockholders.
ECTION
Special Meetings.
S 3. Unless otherwise required by statute, the notice of every meeting of the Stockholders shall be in writing and shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting. Notice of a special meeting shall also state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. A copy of the notice of any meeting shall be given personally, electronically or by mail, not less than ten nor more than fifty days before the date of the meeting, to each Stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting and to each Stockholder who, by reason of any action proposed at such meeting, is entitled by law to notice thereof. If mailed, it shall be directed to a Stockholder at his address as it appears on the record of Stockholders or, if he shall have filed with the Secretary of the Corporation a written request that notices to him be mailed to some other address, then directed to him at such other address. If transmitted electronically, such notice is given when directed to the Shareholder's electronic mail address as supplied by the Shareholder to the Secretary of the Corporation or as otherwise directed pursuant to the Shareholder's authorization or instructions.
ECTION
Notice of Meetings.
S 4. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, at any meeting of the Stockholders there must be present in person or by proxy the holders of record of stock representing at least one-third of the number of votes entitled to be cast upon any question to be considered at the meeting in order to constitute a quorum for the determination of such question, but a less interest may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting until a quorum be present, and thereupon any business may be transacted at the adjourned meeting which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law or by the By-Laws of the Corporation, a majority vote of a quorum at a meeting shall decide any question brought before such meeting. Every holder of record of stock of a
ECTION
Quorum. Proxies. Voting.
 
class entitled to vote at a meeting shall be entitled to one vote for every share of such stock standing in his name on the books of the Corporation, and may vote either in person or by proxy.
S 5. At all meetings of the Stockholders the Chairman of the Board, or in his absence the President, or in his absence a Vice Chairman of the Board or a Vice President designated by the Board of Directors, or if none be present, the appointee of the meeting, shall preside. The Secretary of the Corporation, or in his absence an Assistant Secretary, or if none be present, the appointee of the Presiding Officer of the meeting, shall act as Secretary of the meeting.
ECTION
Presiding Officer and Secretary.
S 6. At each meeting of Stockholders at which Directors are to be elected the Presiding Officer shall appoint two Inspectors of Election who shall perform the duties required by the statute at that meeting and any adjournment thereof. If any Inspector shall refuse to serve, or neglect to attend at the election or his office becomes vacant, the Presiding Officer shall appoint an Inspector in his place.
ECTION
Inspectors.
The Presiding Officer of any meeting may also appoint, at such meeting, two Inspectors with authority to count and report upon the votes cast at such meeting upon such questions (other than the election of Directors) as may be voted upon by ballot.
Inspectors shall be sworn.
S 7. No business may be transacted at a meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation, except business properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-Laws. Nominations for the election of directors shall be properly presented at a meeting only if made in compliance with Section 9, Article II of these By-Laws. The proposal of business other than nominations for the election of directors may properly be brought before Stockholders at a meeting only if either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee thereof, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee thereof or (c) otherwise properly brought before a special meeting pursuant to Article I, Section 2 of these By-Laws or brought before an annual meeting by any Stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a Stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section and on the record date for the determination of Stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section.
ECTION
Stockholders' Meetings.
Business shall be brought before a meeting of Stockholders by any Stockholder of the Corporation by notice in writing delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, and received by such person (a) as provided in Section 2, Article I of these By-Laws, with respect to any business to be brought before a special meeting of Stockholders, and (b) with respect to any business to be brought before an annual meeting of Stockholders, not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one-hundred twenty (120) days prior to the annual meeting of Stockholders.
A Stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter of business such Stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such Stockholder, (iii) the number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such Stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such Stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such Stockholder and any material interest of such Stockholder in such business and (v) a representation that such Stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of Stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section, provided, however, that once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any Stockholder of any such business. The Presiding Officer of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to an annual or special meeting that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the applicable procedure, and if such person should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
 
Nothing in this Section 7 shall be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act and to put before such meeting any proposals so included in the Corporation's proxy statement at his or her request.
For purposes of this Section 7 and Article II, Section 9, "public disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a communication sent by first class mail to Stockholders, in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Reuters Information Services, Inc., Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
S 1. Within the limits provided by the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, the Board of Directors shall determine from time to time the number of Directors who shall constitute the entire Board of Directors. Any such determination made by the Board of Directors shall continue in effect unless and until changed by the Board of Directors, but no such changes shall affect the term of any Director then in office and, in case any of the Directors then in office shall have been elected by holders of the Cumulative $4 Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of the Corporation filed May 31, 1946 pursuant to Section Thirty-six of the Stock Corporation law (hereafter in this Section 1 referred to as the "Certificate filed May 31, 1946"), no increase in the number of Directors then in office shall be made which would reduce the number of Directors then in office elected as aforesaid to less than one-third (or the nearest whole number thereto) of the total number of Directors then in office. The Board of Directors shall from time to time make such determinations pursuant to this Section 1 as shall be necessary or appropriate in order to ensure that, under any circumstances, the holders of each series of the Serial Preferred Stock shall be able, giving effect to all applicable provisions of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, and of these By-Laws (including, without limitation, the preceding sentence), duly and effectively to exercise any exclusive right conferred upon them by the Certificate of Incorporation or any certificate filed pursuant to law to elect Directors of the Corporation.
ECTION
Number. Election. Vacancies. Term of Office.
Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, at each annual meeting of the Stockholders, the successors to the class of Directors whose terms shall then expire, up to the number determined in accordance with the foregoing provisions and with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, in a contested election, shall be elected by ballot or by proxy by the holders of the Common Stock by a plurality of the votes cast at such election.
In any non-contested election of directors, any incumbent director who fails to receive the requisite affirmative majority of the votes cast by ballot or by proxy by the holders of the Common Stock for his or her re-election, shall immediately tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors will decide, through a process managed by the Governance Committee and excluding the nominee in question, whether to accept the resignation at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting. Unless the Board determines in its judgment that it is in the best interests of the Company for the director to remain on the Board, the Board shall accept the resignation. The Board's explanation of its decision not to accept the resignation shall be disclosed on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Except as otherwise provided by law or in the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law and except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, any vacancy in the Board occurring during the year, occurring as a result of an increase in the number of Directors who shall constitute the Board or any other vacancy, may be filled only by the vote of the Board provided that a quorum is then in office and present, or by a majority of the Directors then in office, if less than a quorum is then in office or by a sole remaining Director. Any vacancy in the Board occurring during the year with respect to Directors who may have been elected by holders of the Cumulative $4 Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate filed May 31, 1946 may only be filled by the holders of the Cumulative $4 Preferred Stock at a special meeting of such holders in the same manner as at an annual meeting.
 
Except as otherwise provided by statute, or in the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, the term of office of each Director heretofore or hereafter elected shall be from the time of his election and qualification until the next annual meeting following his election and until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified.
Directors need not be Stockholders.
S 2. Any Director may resign his office at any time by delivering his resignation in writing to the Corporation, and the acceptance of such resignation, unless required by the terms thereof, shall not be necessary to make such resignation effective.
ECTION
Resignations.
S 3. In case the entire Board of Directors shall die or resign, any Stockholder may call a special meeting in the same manner that the Chairman of the Board may call such meeting, and Directors for the unexpired terms may be elected at any such special meeting in the manner provided for their election at annual meetings.
ECTION
Method of Electing Entirely New Board.
S 4. Except as provided by law, or by the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate of the Corporation filed pursuant to law, or by these By-Laws, the powers, business and affairs of the Corporation shall be exercised and managed by the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Powers.
S 5. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such regular intervals and at such fixed time and place as from time to time may be determined by the Board, and no notice of such meetings shall be required.
ECTION
Meetings.
Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by direction of the Chairman of the Board, or of a Vice Chairman of the Board, or of the President, or of any two of the Directors for the time being in office.
The Secretary shall give notice of each special meeting by mailing the same not later than the second day before the meeting, or personally or by telegraphing or telephoning the same not later than the day before the meeting, to each Director, but such notice may be waived by any Director. The Chairman of the Board, or in his absence, the President, or in his absence, a Vice Chairman (to be designated by the persons present at the meeting in the event of more than one Vice Chairman being present) shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. If all of the aforesaid officers be absent or decline to act, the persons present may choose one of their number to act as chairman of the meeting.
At the first meeting held after the annual meeting of Stockholders, the Board of Directors shall elect the Executive Officers of the Corporation, each of whom shall hold his office until the next annual election of Officers and until another is elected and qualified in his stead, unless sooner removed.
Any Director may vote or act on behalf of the Corporation in contracting with any other company, notwithstanding he may be an Officer, Director or Stockholder therein.
Any one or more members of the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors of such Committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.
S 6. One-third of the total number of Directors determined pursuant to Section 1 of this Article as constituting the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if there shall be less than a quorum at any meeting of the Board, a majority of those present (or if only one be present, then that one) may adjourn the meeting from time to time and the meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice.
ECTION
Quorum.
S 7. The Board of Directors may appoint an Executive Committee and such other committee or committees as they may determine. Such committee or committees shall have such powers as shall be specified by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee, so far as permitted by law, may be vested with
ECTION
Committees.
 
all of the powers of the Board of Directors when the Board of Directors is not in session. One-third of the total number of Directors appointed to a Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
S 8. Directors shall be entitled to reasonable compensation for their services. They may be paid a fixed salary and may also receive a fee for attendance at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any Committee of the Board. The amount of compensation shall be determined by resolution of the Board. Nothing herein contained shall preclude any Director from serving in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
ECTION
Compensation of Directors.
S 9. Nominations for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a meeting of the Stockholders may be made (a) by the Board, or on behalf of the Board by any nominating committee appointed by the Board, or (b) by any Stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a Stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section and on the record date for the determination of Stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section.
ECTION
Nominations.
Stockholder nominations shall be made by notice in writing delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, and received by such person (a) as provided in Section 2, Article I of these By-Laws, with respect to any nominations to be made at a special meeting of Stockholders, and (b) with respect to any nominations to be made at an annual meeting of Stockholders, not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one-hundred twenty (120) days prior to any meeting of the Stockholders called for the election of Directors.
Such notice shall set forth (a) as to each proposed nominee who is not an incumbent Director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of each nominee proposed in such notice, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of each such nominee, (iii) the number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by each such nominee, and (iv) any other information concerning the nominee that must be disclosed of nominees in proxy solicitations pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "Exchange Act") and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and (b) as to the Stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such Stockholder, (ii) the number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such Stockholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such Stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such Stockholder, (iv) a representation that such Stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such Stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice shall be accompanied by the written consent of each proposed nominee to serve as a Director of the Corporation. No person shall be eligible for election as a Director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
The Presiding Officer of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if such person should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
S 1. The Elected Officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors. The Elected Officers of the Corporation may include a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, and Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, a Secretary and such other Elected Officers as may be deemed necessary or desirable. Any two or more such offices may be held by the same person, except the offices of President and Secretary.
ECTION
General.
The Board of Directors, at any time and from time to time, may appoint or authorize the Chief Executive Officer, to appoint one or more Vice Presidents, a Controller, an Auditor, a Chief Tax Officer, one or more Assistant Treasurers and one or more Assistant Secretaries, and such other Officers or agents as may be deemed necessary or desirable, and may prescribe or authorize the Chief Executive Officer to prescribe the powers and duties of each, and fill any vacancy which may occur in any such office.
 
All Elected Officers shall be subject to removal at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors. All other Officers, and all heads of departments, managers, assistant managers, agents and employees of the Corporation, may be removed at any time, by vote of the Board of Directors, or by the Officer appointing them, or by any other superior Officers or any Committee thereunto authorized by the Board.
S 2. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Stockholders and of the Board of Directors. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Chairman of the Board.
S 3. A Vice Chairman of the Board, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the President, shall preside at meetings of the Stockholders and of the Board of Directors. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or by the chief executive officer of the Corporation. He shall be subject to the control of the Board of Directors and to the powers of the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
Vice Chairman of the Board.
S 4. The President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, shall preside at meetings of the Stockholders and of the Board of Directors. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or by the chief executive officer of the Corporation. He shall be subject to the control of the Board of Directors and to the powers of the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
President.
S 5. The chief executive officer shall have general charge of the business of the Corporation and the power to formulate all plans and policies in connection therewith, subject to the control of the Board of Directors. He shall keep the Board of Directors fully informed and shall freely consult with the Board concerning the business of the Corporation. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Chief Executive Officer.
S 6. Any Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or by the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
Vice Presidents.
S 7. The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the funds and securities of the Corporation and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are incident to the office of Treasurer, or as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or by the chief executive officer of the Corporation. He shall be subject to the control of the Board of Directors and to the powers of the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
Treasurer.
S 8. Any Assistant Treasurer shall perform such duties as the Treasurer or the chief executive officer of the Corporation or the Board of Directors may from time to time assign to him.
ECTION
Assistant Treasurers.
S 9. . The Secretary shall have the care and custody of the seal and minute books of the Corporation and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are incident to the office of Secretary or as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors. He shall be subject to the control of the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Secretary
S 10. Any Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties as the Secretary or the chief executive officer of the Corporation of the Board of Directors may from time to time assign to him.
ECTION
Assistant Secretaries.
S 11. If a Controller shall have been elected, he shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may, from time to time, be specified by the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer of the Corporation.
ECTION
Controller.
S 12. If an Auditor shall have been elected, he shall have full charge of the auditing of all accounts of every kind, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, and shall also perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer of the Corporation may from time to time direct.
ECTION
Auditor.
 
S 13. The Chief Tax Officer shall have responsibility for all tax matters of the Corporation, subject to control of the Board of Directors, and shall have such powers and perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer may from time to time direct.
ECTION
Chief Tax Officer.
S 1. The shares of each class of the capital stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates or shall be uncertificated. Each registered holder of shares, upon request to the Company, shall be provided with a certificate of stock representing the number of shares owned by such holder. Certificates of stock shall be issued in such forms, not inconsistent with law or with the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law, as shall be approved by the Board of Directors.
ECTION
Certificates of Shares and Uncertificated Shares.
S 2. Transfers of shares shall only be made upon the books of the Corporation by the holder in person, or by the power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Corporation, and on the surrender and cancellation of the certificate or certificates of such shares properly assigned.
ECTION
Transfers of Shares of Stock.
The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make all such rules and regulations as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates of shares in the capital stock of the Corporation.
S 3. For the purpose of determining the Stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of Stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or for the purpose of determining Stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or the allotment of any rights, or for the purpose of any other action, the Board may fix, in advance, a date as the record for any such determination of Stockholders. Such date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action.
ECTION
Record Dates.
S 4. No certificate of shares in the capital stock of the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity, against such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, with such surety or security, if any, as shall be approved by the Treasurer or Secretary. Proper and legal evidence of such loss, theft or destruction shall be produced to the Treasurer or Secretary, if they require the same. The Treasurer or Secretary may (except as otherwise provided in any agreement executed and delivered on behalf of the Corporation and authorized by the Board of Directors) in their discretion refuse to issue such new certificate, save upon the order of the court having jurisdiction in such matters.
ECTION
Lost Certificates.
Dividends may be declared and paid out of funds of the Corporation legally available therefor as often and at such times and to such extent as the Board of Directors may determine, consistent with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law.
The seal of the Corporation shall consist of a flat-faced circular die with the name of the Corporation in a circle and the year of its incorporation in the center.
Any notice required by the By-Laws of the Corporation to be given to Directors or Stockholders for any meeting may be waived by any Director or Stockholder in writing, signed by such Director or Stockholder or by his attorney thereunto authorized, and filed with the Secretary of the Corporation.
 
Funds of the Corporation on deposit with banks shall be disbursed by checks or drafts signed by such officer or officers as the Board of Directors from time to time designate or by such person or persons as shall from time to time be designated either by the Board of Directors or by such officer or officers as the Board shall from time to time authorize so to do. Notes, drafts, acceptances, bills of exchange, or other obligation for the payment of money (other than checks and drafts on banks with which the Corporation has funds on deposit) made, accepted, or endorsed, shall be signed by such officer or officers or person or persons as the Board of Directors shall from time to time designate.
The Corporation shall indemnify each Officer or Director who is made, or threatened to be made, a party to any action by reason of the fact that he or she is or was an Officer or Director of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation in any capacity for the Corporation or any other enterprise, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. The Corporation may, so far as permitted by law, enter into an agreement to indemnify and advance expenses to any Officer or Director who is made, or threatened to be made, a party to any such action.
These By-Laws, or any of them, may be altered, amended, or repealed, and new By-Laws may be adopted, at any annual meeting of the Stockholders, or at any special meeting called for that purpose, by a vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote thereat. The Board of Directors shall have the power, by a majority vote of the whole Board, to alter or amend or repeal these By-Laws, but any such action of the Board of Directors may be amended or repealed by the Stockholders at any annual meeting.
I, M.J.A. "Jekka" Pinckney, a duly appointed Assistant Secretary of International Paper Company, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, hereby certify that the foregoing comprises a true and complete copy of the By-Laws of said International Paper Company as amended to the date hereof, and that the same in force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of said International Paper Company this 11
th
day of May, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
1.1. . The purpose of the International Paper Company 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to provide incentive for directors and designated employees of International Paper Company, a New York corporation (the "Company"), or any Affiliate, to improve the performance of the Company on a long-term basis, and to attract and retain certain persons in the employ of the Company. Accordingly, the Plan permits the grant of incentive awards from time to time to directors of the Company and selected designated employees of the Company and its Affiliates.
GENERAL
2.1. . The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of the Company's voting stock representing 30% or more of the voting power of the Company's outstanding voting stock, , that an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for whom shares are held under an employee stock ownership, employee retirement, employee savings or similar plan and whose shares are voted in accordance with the instructions of such employee shall not be a member of a "group" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) solely because such employee's shares are held by a trustee under said plan;
provided, however
(2) during any period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless the election, or the nomination for election, by the Company's shareowners of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period;
Board
(3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding voting stock or voting stock of such
 
other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Company's voting stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitutes, or is converted into or exchanged for, voting stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of the voting stock of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries; or
(5) the shareowners of the Company approve a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1. . The Plan shall be effective as of the date it is approved by both the Board and the shareowners of the Company (the "Effective Date").
EFFECTIVE DATE
3.2. . The Plan shall continue until terminated by the Board as provided in Article 16. The termination of the Plan shall not affect the validity of any Award outstanding on the date of termination, which shall continue to be governed by the applicable terms and conditions of this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Incentive Stock Options may be granted more than ten (10) years after the earlier of (a) adoption of this Plan by the Board, or (b) the Effective Date.
TERM OF PLAN
4.1. . The Plan shall be administered by a Committee appointed by the Board (which Committee shall consist of at least two directors) or, at the discretion of the Board from time to time, the Plan may be administered by the Board. Unless and until changed by the Board, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board is designated as the Committee to administer the Plan. With regard to Awards that are made to Eligible Participants who at the time of consideration for such Award (i) are persons subject to the short-swing profit rules of Section 16 of the
COMMITTEE
 
Exchange Act, or (ii) are reasonably anticipated to become Covered Employees during the term of the Award, such Awards must be made by a Committee composed solely of two or more Independent Directors. However, a Committee member's failure to qualify as an Independent Director or failure to abstain from such action shall not invalidate any Award made by the Committee which Award is otherwise validly made under the Plan. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and may be changed at any time and from time to time in the discretion of, the Board. The Board may reserve to itself any or all of the authority and responsibility of the Committee under the Plan or may act as administrator of the Plan for any and all purposes. To the extent the Board has reserved any authority and responsibility or during any time that the Board is acting as administrator of the Plan, it shall have all the powers of the Committee hereunder, and any reference herein to the Committee (other than in this Section 4.1) shall include the Board. To the extent any action of the Board under the Plan conflicts with actions taken by the Committee, the actions of the Board shall control.
4.2. . For purposes of administering the Plan, the Committee may from time to time adopt rules, regulations, guidelines and procedures for carrying out the provisions and purposes of the Plan and make such other determinations, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may deem appropriate. The Committee's interpretation of the Plan, any Awards granted under the Plan, any Award Certificate and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan are final, binding, and conclusive on all parties. Each member of the Committee is entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to that member by any officer or other employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Company's or an Affiliate's independent certified public accountants, Company counsel or any executive compensation consultant or other professional retained by the Company to assist in the administration of the Plan.
ACTION AND INTERPRETATIONS BY THE COMMITTEE
4.3. . Except as provided in Section 4.1 hereof, the Committee has the exclusive power, authority and discretion to:
AUTHORITY OF COMMITTEE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, grants of Awards to Non-Employee Directors hereunder shall be made only in accordance with the terms, conditions and parameters of a plan, program or policy for the compensation of Non-Employee Directors as in effect from time to time, and the Committee may not make discretionary grants hereunder to Non-Employee Directors.
4.4. The Board may, by resolution, expressly delegate to the Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Communications, the authority, within specified parameters as to the number and terms of Awards, to (i) designate employees of the Company or any of its Affiliates to be recipients of Awards under the Plan, and (ii) to determine the number of such Awards to be received by any such Participants; provided, however, that such delegation of duties and responsibilities may not be made with respect to the grant of Awards to eligible participants who are Senior Vice President of the Company and above. The acts of such delegate shall be treated hereunder as acts of the Board and such delegate shall report regularly to the Compensation Committee regarding the delegated duties and responsibilities and any Awards so granted.
DELEGATION.
4.5. . Each Award shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate. Each Award Certificate shall include such provisions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as may be specified by the Committee.
AWARD CERTIFICATES
 
5.1. . Subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 5.2 and Section 15.1, the aggregate number of Shares reserved and available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan shall be 15,400,000, plus a number of additional Shares underlying awards outstanding as of the Effective Date under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated February 7, 2005, that thereafter terminate or expire unexercised, or are cancelled, forfeited or lapse for any reason. The maximum number of Shares that may be issued upon exercise of Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be 15,400,000.
NUMBER OF SHARES
5.2. . Shares covered by an Award shall be subtracted from the Plan share reserve as of the date of grant, but shall be added back to the Plan share reserve in accordance with this Section 5.2.
SHARE COUNTING
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3. . Any Stock distributed pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Stock, treasury Stock or Stock purchased on the open market.
STOCK DISTRIBUTED
5.4. . Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary (but subject to adjustment as provided in Section 15.1):
LIMITATION ON AWARDS
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1. . Awards may be granted only to Eligible Participants. Eligible Participants who are service providers to an Affiliate may be granted Options or SARs under this Plan only if the Affiliate qualifies as an "eligible issuer of service recipient stock" within the meaning of 1.409A-1(b)(5)(iii)(E) of the final regulations under Code Section 409A.
GENERAL
7.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
GENERAL
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2. . Incentive Stock Options may be granted to only to Eligible Participants who are employees of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary as defined in Section 424(e) and (f) of the Code. The terms of any Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan must comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. If all of the requirements of Section 422 of the Code are not met, the Option shall automatically become a Non-qualified Stock Option.
INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS
7.3. . In the event of a Change in Control, all Incentive Stock Options and Non-qualified Stock Options granted under this Plan shall be immediately exercisable, and all service-based restrictions on Shares issued under this Plan pursuant to the exercise of such option shall be immediately removed.
EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN CONTROL
8.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant Stock Appreciation Rights to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
GRANT OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
 
(1) The Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise; over
(2) The base price of the SAR as determined by the Committee, which shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Grant Date.
 
 
 
 
8.2. . In the event a Change in Control of the Company occurs, all service-based restrictions shall be immediately removed with respect to SARs awarded under this Plan.
EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN CONTROL
9.1. . The Committee is authorized to make Awards of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units to Participants in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. An Award of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate setting forth the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to the Award.
GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK, RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AND DEFERRED STOCK UNITS
9.2. . Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, limitations on the right to vote Restricted Stock or the right to receive dividends on the Restricted Stock). These restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances, in such installments, upon the satisfaction of performance goals or otherwise, as the Committee determines at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter. Except as otherwise provided in an Award Certificate or any special Plan document governing an Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareowner with respect to the Restricted Stock, and the Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareowner with respect to Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units until such time as Shares of Stock are paid in settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units. Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Certificate, Awards of Restricted Stock will be entitled to full dividend rights and any dividends paid thereon will be paid or distributed to the holder no later than the end of the calendar year in which the dividends are paid to shareowners or, if later, the 15th day of the third month following the date the dividends are paid to shareowners.
ISSUANCE AND RESTRICTIONS
 
9.3. . Shares of Restricted Stock shall be delivered to the Participant at the time of grant either by book-entry registration or by delivering to the Participant, or a custodian or escrow agent (including, without limitation, the Company or one or more of its employees) designated by the Committee, a stock certificate or certificates registered in the name of the Participant. If physical certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, such certificates must bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
DELIVERY OF RESTRICTED STOCK
9.4. . In the event a Change in Control of the Company occurs, all service-based restrictions shall be immediately removed with respect to Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Deferred Stock Units.
EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN CONTROL
10.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant any Award under this Plan, including cash-settled Awards, with performance-based vesting criteria, on such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. The Committee shall have the complete discretion to determine the number of Performance Awards granted to each Participant, subject to Section 5.4, and to designate the provisions of such Performance Awards as provided in Section 4.3. All Performance Awards shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate or a written program established by the Committee, pursuant to which Performance Awards are awarded under the Plan under uniform terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in such written program. All Dividend Equivalents credited on Performance Shares during an Award period shall be reinvested in additional Performance Shares, which shall be allocated to the same Award period and shall be subject to being earned by the Participant on the same basis as the original Award. Once Performance Shares have been paid to a Participant, any dividends on such shares shall be paid in cash.
GRANT OF PERFORMANCE AWARDS
10.2. . The Committee may establish performance goals for Performance Awards which may be based on any criteria selected by the Committee. Such performance goals may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or in terms of objectives that relate to the performance of the Participant, an Affiliate or a division, region, department or function within the Company or an Affiliate. If the Committee determines that events or circumstances render the performance goals to be unsuitable, the Committee may modify such performance goals in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate. If a Participant is promoted, demoted or transferred to a different business unit or function during a performance period, the Committee may determine that the performance goals or performance period are no longer appropriate and may (i) adjust, change or eliminate the performance goals or the applicable performance period as it deems appropriate to make such goals and period comparable to the initial goals and period, or (ii) make a cash payment to the participant in an amount
PERFORMANCE GOALS
 
determined by the Committee. The foregoing two sentences shall not apply with respect to a Performance Award that is intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award under Article 11 if the recipient of the Performance Award (a) was a Covered Employee on the date of the modification, adjustment, change or elimination of the performance goals or performance period, or (b) in the reasonable judgment of the Committee, may be a Covered Employee on the date the Performance Award is expected to be paid.
10.3. . The provisions of this Section 10.3 shall apply to Performance Awards in the case of a Change in Control, unless otherwise provided in the Award Certificate or any special Plan document or separate agreement with a Participant governing an Award.
EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN CONTROL
 
 
 
11.1. . The provisions of the Plan are intended to ensure that all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted hereunder to any Covered Employee shall qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption.
OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
11.2. . When granting any other Award, the Committee may designate such Award as a Qualified Performance-Based Award, based upon a determination that the recipient is or may be a Covered Employee with respect to such Award, and the Committee wishes such Award to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption. If an Award is so designated, the Committee shall establish performance goals for such Award within the time period prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code based on one or more of the following Qualified Business Criteria, which may be expressed in terms of Company-wide objectives or in terms of objectives that relate to the performance of an Affiliate or a division, region, department or function within the Company or an Affiliate:
OTHER AWARDS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance goals with respect to the foregoing Qualified Business Criteria may be specified in absolute terms, in percentages, or in terms of growth from period to period or growth rates over time, as well as measured relative to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or a published or special index, or a stock market index, that the Committee deems appropriate. Any member of a comparator group or an index that ceases to exist during a measurement period shall be disregarded for the entire measurement period. Performance Goals need not be based upon an increase or positive result under a business criterion and could include, for example, the maintenance of the status quo or the limitation of economic losses (measured, in each case, by reference to a specific business criterion).
11.3. . Each Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than a market-priced Option or SAR) shall be earned, vested and payable (as applicable) only upon the achievement of performance goals established by the Committee based upon one or more of the Qualified Business Criteria, together with the satisfaction of any other conditions, such as continued employment, as the Committee may determine to be appropriate; provided, however, that the Committee may provide, either in connection with the grant thereof or by amendment thereafter, that achievement of such performance goals will be waived, in whole or in part, upon (i) the termination of employment of a Participant by reason of death or Disability, or (ii) the occurrence of a
PERFORMANCE GOALS
 
Change in Control. Performance periods established by the Committee for any such Qualified Performance-Based Award may be as short as three months and may be any longer period. In addition, the Committee has the right, in connection with the grant of a Qualified Performance-Based Award, to exercise negative discretion to determine that the portion of such Award actually earned, vested and/or payable (as applicable) shall be less than the portion that would be earned, vested and/or payable based solely upon application of the applicable performance goals.
11.4. . The Committee may provide in any Qualified Performance-Based Award, at the time the performance goals are established, that any evaluation of performance shall exclude or otherwise objectively adjust for any specified event that occurs during a performance period, including by way of example but without limitation the following: (a) asset write-downs or impairment charges; (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements; (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles or other laws or provisions affecting reported results; (d) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs; (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30; (f) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to shareowners for the applicable year; (g) acquisitions or divestitures; and (h) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.
INCLUSIONS AND EXCLUSIONS FROM PERFORMANCE CRITERIA
11.5. . Any payment of a Qualified Performance-Based Award granted with performance goals pursuant to Section 11.3 above shall be conditioned on the written certification of the Committee in each case that the performance goals and any other material conditions were satisfied. Except as specifically provided in Section 11.3, no Qualified Performance-Based Award held by a Covered Employee or by an employee who in the reasonable judgment of the Committee may be a Covered Employee on the date of payment, may be amended, nor may the Committee exercise any discretionary authority it may otherwise have under the Plan with respect to a Qualified Performance-Based Award under the Plan, in any manner to waive the achievement of the applicable performance goal based on Qualified Business Criteria or to increase the amount payable pursuant thereto or the value thereof, or otherwise in a manner that would cause the Qualified Performance-Based Award to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption.
CERTIFICATION OF PERFORMANCE GOALS
11.6. . Section 5.4 sets forth (i) the maximum number of Shares that may be granted in any one-year period to a Participant in designated forms of stock-based Awards, and (ii) the maximum aggregate dollar amount that may be paid with respect to cash-based Awards under the Plan to any one Participant in any fiscal year of the Company.
AWARD LIMITS
 
12.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents with respect to Full Value Awards granted hereunder, subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. Dividend Equivalents shall entitle the Participant to receive payments equal to dividends with respect to all or a portion of the number of Shares subject to a Full Value Award, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may provide that Dividend Equivalents be paid or distributed when accrued or be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares, or otherwise reinvested; provided, however, that with regard to Dividend Equivalents payable on Performance Awards, such Dividend Equivalents may be earned but shall not be paid until payment of the underlying Performance Award. Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Certificate, Dividend Equivalents will be paid or distributed no later than the 15
GRANT OF DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS
th
day of the 3
rd
month following the later of (i) the calendar year in which the corresponding dividends were paid to shareowners, or (ii) the first calendar year in which the Participant's right to such Dividends Equivalents is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
13.1. . The Committee is authorized, subject to limitations under applicable law, to grant to Participants such other Awards that are payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to Shares, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan, including without limitation Shares awarded purely as a "bonus" and not subject to any restrictions or conditions, convertible or exchangeable debt securities, other rights convertible or exchangeable into Shares, and Awards valued by reference to book value of Shares or the value of securities of or the performance of specified Parents or Subsidiaries. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards.
GRANT OF STOCK OR OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS
14.1. . The term of each Award shall be for the period as determined by the Committee, provided that in no event shall the term of any Option or a Stock Appreciation Right exceed a period of ten years from its Grant Date.
TERM OF AWARD
14.2. . At the discretion of the Committee, payment of Awards may be made in cash, Stock, a combination of cash and Stock, or any other form of property as the Committee shall determine. In addition, payment of Awards may include such terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations, if any, as the Committee deems appropriate, including, in the case of Awards paid in the
FORM OF PAYMENT FOR AWARDS
 
form of Stock, restrictions on transfer and forfeiture provisions. Further, payment of Awards may be made in the form of a lump sum, or in installments, as determined by the Committee.
14.3. . No right or interest of a Participant in any unexercised or restricted Award may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Company or an Affiliate, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of such Participant to any other party other than the Company or an Affiliate. No unexercised or restricted Award shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, except in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, pursuant to a domestic relations order that would satisfy Section 414(p)(1)(A) of the Code if such Section applied to an Award under the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee may (but need not) permit other transfers (other than transfers for value) where the Committee concludes that such transferability (i) does not result in accelerated taxation, (ii) does not cause any Option intended to be an Incentive Stock Option to fail to be described in Code Section 422(b), and (iii) is otherwise appropriate and desirable, taking into account any factors deemed relevant, including without limitation, state or federal tax or securities laws applicable to transferable Awards.
LIMITS ON TRANSFER
14.4. . Notwithstanding Section 14.3, a Participant may, in the manner determined by the Committee, designate a beneficiary to exercise the rights of the Participant and to receive any distribution with respect to any Award upon the Participant's death. A beneficiary, legal guardian, legal representative, or other person claiming any rights under the Plan is subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award Certificate applicable to the Participant, except to the extent the Plan and Award Certificate otherwise provide, and to any additional restrictions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee. If no beneficiary has been designated or survives the Participant, payment shall be made to the Participant's estate. Subject to the foregoing, a beneficiary designation may be changed or revoked by a Participant at any time provided the change or revocation is filed with the Company.
BENEFICIARIES
14.5. . All Stock issuable under the Plan is subject to any stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to comply with federal or state securities laws, rules and regulations and the rules of any national securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock is listed, quoted, or traded. The Committee may place legends on any Stock certificate or issue instructions to the transfer agent to reference restrictions applicable to the Stock.
STOCK TRADING RESTRICTIONS
14.6. . Except as otherwise provided in the Award Certificate or any special Plan document governing an Award, upon the termination of a person's Continuous Status as a Participant by reason of death or Disability:
ACCELERATION UPON DEATH OR DISABILITY
 
 
 
To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Code Section 422(d), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Non-qualified Stock Options.
14.7. . Regardless of whether an event has occurred as described in Section 14.6 above, and subject to Article 11 as to Qualified Performance-Based Awards, the Committee may in its sole discretion at any time determine that all or a portion of a Participant's Options, SARs, and other Awards in the nature of rights that may be exercised shall become fully or partially exercisable, that all or a part of the time-based vesting restrictions on all or a portion of the outstanding Awards shall lapse, and/or that any performance-based criteria with respect to any Awards shall be deemed to be wholly or partially satisfied, in each case, as of such date as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, declare. The Committee may discriminate among Participants and among Awards granted to a Participant in exercising its discretion pursuant to this Section 14.7. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan, including this Section 14.7, the Committee may not accelerate the payment of any Award if such acceleration would violate Section 409A(a)(3) of the Code.
ACCELERATION FOR ANY OTHER REASON
14.8. . The Committee may specify in an Award Certificate that the Participant's rights, payments and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events shall include, but shall not be limited to, voluntary termination prior to Retirement eligibility, termination of employment for Cause, violation of a Non-Compete Agreement, Non-Solicitation Agreement or Confidentiality Agreement, failure by a participant in the Company's Unfunded Supplemental Retirement Plan for Senior Managers ("SERP") to submit notice of retirement one year in advance of the effective date of his or her retirement (except in the event of death, Disability or waiver by the Committee), or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business interest or reputation of the Company or any Affiliate or any act that is determined by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, to be a deliberate disregard of the Company's rules.
FORFEITURE EVENTS
 
14.9. . The Committee may grant Awards under the Plan in substitution for stock and stock-based awards held by employees of another entity who become employees of the Company or an Affiliate as a result of a merger or consolidation of the former employing entity with the Company or an Affiliate or the acquisition by the Company or an Affiliate of property or stock of the former employing corporation. The Committee may direct that the substitute awards be granted on such terms and conditions as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstances.
SUBSTITUTE AWARDS
15.1. . In the event of a nonreciprocal transaction between the Company and its shareowners that causes the per-share value of the Stock to change (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, spin-off, rights offering, or large nonrecurring cash dividend), the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall be adjusted proportionately, and the Committee shall make such adjustments to the Plan and Awards as it deems necessary, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights immediately resulting from such transaction. Action by the Committee may include: (i) adjustment of the number and kind of shares that may be delivered under the Plan; (ii) adjustment of the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards; (iii) adjustment of the exercise price of outstanding Awards or the measure to be used to determine the amount of the benefit payable on an Award; and (iv) any other adjustments that the Committee determines to be equitable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall not make any adjustments to outstanding Options or SARs that would constitute a modification or substitution of the stock right under Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(b)(5)(v) that would be treated as the grant of a new stock right or change in the form of payment for purposes of Code Section 409A. Without limiting the foregoing, in the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Stock (stock-split), a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Stock into a lesser number of Shares, the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall automatically be adjusted proportionately, and the Shares then subject to each Award shall automatically, without the necessity for any additional action by the Committee, be adjusted proportionately without any change in the aggregate purchase price therefor.
MANDATORY ADJUSTMENTS
15.2 . Upon the occurrence or in anticipation of any corporate event or transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any merger, reorganization, recapitalization, combination or exchange of shares, or any transaction described in Section 15.1), the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that Awards will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (ii) that Awards will become immediately vested and exercisable and will expire after a designated period of time to the extent not then exercised, (iii) that Awards will be assumed by another party to a transaction or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) that outstanding Awards may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction, over
DISCRETIONARY ADJUSTMENTS
 
the exercise price of the Award, (v) that performance targets and performance periods for Performance Awards will be modified, consistent with Code Section 162(m) where applicable, or (vi) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee's determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated.
15.3 . Any discretionary adjustments made pursuant to this Article 15 shall be subject to the provisions of Section 16.2. To the extent that any adjustments made pursuant to this Article 15 cause Incentive Stock Options to cease to qualify as Incentive Stock Options, such Options shall be deemed to be Non-qualified Stock Options.
GENERAL
16.1. . The Board or the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate the Plan without shareowner approval; provided, however, that if an amendment to the Plan would, in the reasonable opinion of the Board or the Committee, either (i) materially increase the number of Shares available under the Plan, (ii) expand the types of awards under the Plan, (iii) materially expand the class of participants eligible to participate in the Plan, (iv) materially extend the term of the Plan, or (v) otherwise constitute a material change requiring shareowner approval under applicable laws, policies or regulations or the applicable listing or other requirements of an Exchange, then such amendment shall be subject to shareowner approval; and provided, further, that the Board or Committee may condition any other amendment or modification on the approval of shareowners of the Company for any reason, including by reason of such approval being necessary or deemed advisable (i) to comply with the listing or other requirements of an Exchange, or (ii) to satisfy any other tax, securities or other applicable laws, policies or regulations.
AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION
16.2. . At any time and from time to time, the Committee may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award without approval of the Participant; provided, however:
AWARDS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.3. . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or in any Award Certificate to the contrary, the Board may amend the Plan or an Award Certificate, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or Award Certificate to any present or future law relating to plans of this or similar nature (including, but not limited to, Section 409A of the Code), and to the administrative regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder. By accepting an Award under this Plan, a Participant agrees to any amendment made pursuant to this Section 16.3 to any Award granted under the Plan without further consideration or action.
COMPLIANCE AMENDMENTS
17.1. .
RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS
 
 
 
 
17.2. . The Company or any Affiliate shall have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any exercise, lapse of restriction or other taxable event arising as a result of the Plan. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event under the Plan, the Committee may, at the time the Award is granted or thereafter, require or permit that any such withholding requirement be satisfied, in whole or in part, by withholding from the Award Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount (and not any greater amount) required to be withheld for tax purposes, all in accordance with such procedures as the Committee establishes. All such elections shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. For certain Participants designated by the Company, the Company shall also have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold additional amounts to satisfy federal, state or local taxes up to a maximum amount of 85% of the Award at the election of the Participant.
WITHHOLDING
17.3. . If any of the Company's financial statements are required to be restated, resulting from errors, omissions, or fraud, the Committee may (in its sole discretion, but acting in good faith) direct that the Company recover all or a portion of any such Award made to any, all or any class of Participants with respect to any fiscal year of the Company the financial results of which are negatively affected by such restatement. The amount to be recovered from any Participant shall be the amount by which the affected Award(s) exceeded the amount that would have been payable to such Participant had the financial statements been initially filed as restated, or any greater or
IMPACT OF RESTATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UPON PREVIOUS AWARDS
 
lesser amount (including, but not limited to, the entire award) that the Committee shall determine. The Committee may determine to recover different amounts from different Participants or different classes of Participants on such bases as it shall deem appropriate. In no event shall the amount to be recovered by the Company be less than the amount required to be repaid or recovered as a matter of law. The Committee shall determine whether the Company shall effect any such recovery (i) by seeking repayment from the Participant, (ii) by reducing (subject to applicable law and the terms and conditions of the applicable plan, program or arrangement) the amount that would otherwise be payable to the Participant under any compensatory plan, program or arrangement maintained by the Company or any of its affiliates, (iii) by withholding payment of future increases in compensation (including the payment of any discretionary bonus amount) or grants of compensatory awards that would otherwise have been made in accordance with the Company's otherwise applicable compensation practices, or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing.
17.4. .
SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO SECTION 409A OF THE CODE
 
 
 
 
 
(i) the amount of such non-exempt deferred compensation that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period immediately following the Participant's separation from service will be accumulated through and paid or provided on the first day of the seventh month following the Participant's separation from service (or, if the Participant dies during such period, within 30 days after the Participant's death) (in either case, the "Required Delay Period"); and
(ii) the normal payment or distribution schedule for any remaining payments or distributions will resume at the end of the Required Delay Period.
 
For purposes of this Plan, the term "Specified Employee" has the meaning given such term in Code Section 409A and the final regulations thereunder, , that, as permitted in such final regulations, the Company's Specified Employees and its application of the six-month delay rule of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) shall be determined in accordance with rules adopted by the Board or any committee of the Board, which shall be applied consistently with respect to all nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements of the Company, including this Plan.
provided, however
 
 
 
17.5. . The Plan is intended to be an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Certificate shall give the Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate. This Plan is not intended to be subject to ERISA.
UNFUNDED STATUS OF AWARDS
17.6. . No payment under the Plan shall be taken into account in determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, welfare or benefit plan of the Company or any Affiliate unless provided otherwise in such other plan.
RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BENEFITS
17.7. . The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company and its Affiliates.
EXPENSES
17.8. . No fractional Shares shall be issued and the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, whether cash shall be given in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares shall be eliminated by rounding up or down.
FRACTIONAL SHARES
 
17.9. .
GOVERNMENT AND OTHER REGULATIONS
 
 
17.10. To the extent not governed by federal law, the Plan and all Award Certificates shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
GOVERNING LAW.
 
17.11. . Each Award Certificate may contain such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine; provided that such other terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
17.12. . The grant of any Award shall not in any way affect the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassification or changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. The Plan shall not restrict the authority of the Company, for proper corporate purposes, to draft or assume awards, other than under the Plan, to or with respect to any person. If the Committee so directs, the Company may issue or transfer Shares to an Affiliate, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Affiliate will transfer such Shares to a Participant in accordance with the terms of an Award granted to such Participant and specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.
NO LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS OF COMPANY
17.13. . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 4 shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of his or her own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's charter or bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
INDEMNIFICATION
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged as being the International Paper Company 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan, as adopted by the Board on February 9, 2009 and approved by the Company's shareowners on May 11, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1 . This Executive Management Incentive Plan (the "Executive MIP" or the "Plan") is a subplan of the International Paper Company 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2009 Incentive Plan"), consisting of a program for the grant of annual performance-based cash awards under Article 10 of the 2009 Incentive Plan. This Plan has been established and approved, and will be administered by, the Committee pursuant to the terms of the 2009 Incentive Plan, including without limitation, Article 11 thereof. It is intended that the Performance Bonuses earned under this Plan shall be Qualified Performance-Based Awards with respect to Participants who are Covered Employees, with the intent that the Performance Bonuses will be fully deductible by the Company without regard to the limitations of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). The applicable Award limits of Section 5.4 of the 2009 Incentive Plan shall apply with respect to this Plan. As of the Effective Date, Section 5.4 of the 2009 Incentive Plan provides that the maximum aggregate amount that may be paid with respect to cash-based Awards under the 2009 Incentive Plan to any one Participant in any fiscal year of the Company is $10,000,000. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the 2009 Incentive Plan and the provisions of this Plan, the provisions of the 2009 Incentive Plan shall be controlling and determinative.
BACKGROUND
1.2. . The purpose of this Plan is to provide for the payment of a cash bonus to eligible employees of the Company, the payment of which will be based on the achievement of Company Business Objectives during a Plan Year. Company Business Objectives are designed to focus on overall corporate financial results that drive shareowner value.
PURPOSE
1.3. . This Plan was approved by the Committee on February 9, 2009, to be effective as of the beginning of Plan Year 2009, contingent on shareowner approval of the 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan.
EFFECTIVE DATE
2.1. . Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the 2009 Incentive Plan. In addition, the following terms shall have the following meanings for purposes of this Plan, unless the context in which they are used clearly indicates that some other meaning is intended.
DEFINITIONS
. The Company Business Objectives established by the Committee for a Plan Year, as provided in Article 5.
Company Business Objectives
. January 1, 2009.
Effective Date
 
. The International Paper Company Executive Management Incentive Plan, a subplan of the 2009 Incentive Plan, as set forth in this document together with any subsequent amendments hereto.
Executive Management Incentive Plan or Plan
. Generally accepted accounting principles for U.S. companies.
GAAP
. Has the meaning described in Section 5.2.
Individual Award Limit
. The bonus payable to a Participant under this Plan calculated by reference to the achievement of applicable Company Business Objectives, as determined in accordance with Article 5.
Performance Bonus
. January 1 to December 31 of each year.
Plan Year
. Means a document setting forth Company Business Objectives for a Plan Year, and the relative weightings of such measures and such other information as the Committee determines is appropriate.
Schedule
3.1. . This Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
COMMITTEE
3.2. . Without limiting its authority under Article 4 of the 2009 Incentive Plan, the Committee has the exclusive power, authority and discretion to:
AUTHORITY OF COMMITTEE
(a) Designate Participants for each Plan Year;
(b) Establish and review Company Business Objectives and weightings for different Company Business Objectives for each Plan Year;
(c) Establish Target Bonuses for Participants for each Plan Year;
(d) Determine whether and to what extent Company Business Objectives were achieved for each Plan Year;
(e) Increase (subject to the Individual Award Limit) or decrease the Performance Bonus otherwise payable to any Participant resulting from the achievement of performance objectives in any Plan Year, based on such subjective factors as the Committee shall deem relevant;
(f) Establish, adopt or revise any rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or advisable to administer this Plan;
(g) Make all other decisions and determinations that may be required under this Plan or as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to administer this Plan; and
(h) Amend this Plan as provided herein.
 
3.3. . The Committee's interpretation of this Plan and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to this Plan are final, binding, and conclusive on all parties.
DECISIONS BINDING
4.1. . Officers of the Company who hold the title Senior Vice President or higher are eligible to participate in the Plan. sets forth the eligible participants as of January 1, 2009. On or before March 31 of each Plan Year, the Committee shall approve and substitute a new indicating the Participants for that Plan Year.
DESIGNATION OF PARTICIPANTS
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
4.2. . If a Participant begins employment or is promoted to an eligible position after the beginning of a Plan Year, the Committee, in its discretion, may determine whether such person may participate in this Plan and if so, the terms of such participation, which will be prorated based on the number of days such person participated in this Plan during the Plan Year, unless the Committee determines otherwise. If a Participant takes a leave of absence during the Plan Year for any reason the Participant will receive a share of a Performance Bonus, if any, for such Plan Year, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
PARTIAL YEAR PARTICIPATION
pro rata
4.3. . If a Participant is demoted during the Plan Year, the Committee will determine whether Plan participation ends at that time, or is continued, perhaps at a reduced level. If participation ends, any Performance Bonus earned during the time of participation will be prorated for the Plan Year.
DEMOTIONS
5.1. . On or before March 31 of each Plan Year, the Committee will approve and substitute a new indicating the Company Business Objectives for that Plan Year, which shall be based on one or more of the Qualified Business Criteria approved by shareowners under Section 11.2 of the 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan. Unless waived by the Committee in the case of death or Disability of a Participant, or the occurrence of a Change in Control, no Performance Bonuses shall be payable under the Plan for any Plan Year unless the Company Business Objectives have been achieved. The maximum aggregate payout of awards under the Plan based on the Company Business Objective shall also be set forth on , which shall not exceed the Individual Award Limit times the number of Participants for that Plan Year.
COMPANY BUSINESS OBJECTIVES
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
5.2. . In any Plan Year in which the Company Business Objectives are achieved, the Performance Bonus payable to each Participant under the Plan for such Plan Year shall be $10,000,000 (the "Individual Award Limit") or any lesser amount determined by the Committee based on criteria determined by the
INDIVIDUAL AWARD LIMIT
 
Committee. As described herein, it is anticipated that the Committee will exercise discretion, as contemplated in Section 11.3 of the 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan, to determine that the Performance Bonus payable to any Participant for a Plan Year is less than the Individual Award Limit for such Participant. In exercising such discretion, the Committee may establish or approve intermediate performance objectives and their respective weightings, and intermediate incentive opportunity ranges, as it deems appropriate to encourage and reward particular areas of performance, with regard to Company or individual performance. Such intermediate objectives and opportunity ranges may, but are not required to, be identical to the Company's Management Incentive Plan.
5.3. . On or before March 31 of each Plan Year, it is anticipated that the Committee will approve intermediate performance objectives for that Plan Year in addition to Company Business Objectives, and shall set forth such intermediate performance objectives on . These intermediate performance objectives shall provide the formula that the Committee will use as a guide for determining a Participant's Performance Bonus at a level below the Individual Award Limit.
INTERMEDIATE PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES
Schedule 1
5.4. . The Committee intends to establish Target Bonuses (other than the Individual Award Limit) for each Plan Year that will be awarded to the Participant for that Plan Year if Company Business Objectives are achieved and if the pre-established intermediate performance objectives are achieved at the targeted level of performance (the "Target Bonus"). The Target Bonus shall be based on the percentage of the midpoint of each Participant's defined salary range for his or her position level. The actual Performance Bonus paid to a Participant may be greater or less than his or her Target Bonus, depending on the level of achievement of the pre-established performance objectives (but in no event shall the bonus exceed the Individual Award Limit). In any Plan Year in which the Committee fails to set a Target Bonus for a Participant, the Performance Bonus for that Participant shall be zero for that year unless the Committee determines otherwise (but in no event shall the bonus exceed the Individual Award Limit).
ESTABLISHMENT OF TARGET BONUSES
5.5. . Performance Bonuses will be paid within the first two and one-half months of the year next following the end of the Plan Year for which the Performance Bonuses, if any, were earned.
PAYOUT FORM AND TIMING
6.1. . The Committee may, at any time and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate this Plan. The Committee may condition any amendment or modification on the approval of shareowners of the Company if such approval is necessary or deemed advisable with respect to tax, securities or other applicable laws, policies or regulations, including without limitation Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).
AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION
 
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged as being the International Paper Company Executive Management Incentive Plan as adopted by the Committee on February 9, 2009, to be effective as of January 1, 2009, contingent on shareowner approval of the 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
1. Purpose and Effective Date of Plan
This plan shall be known as the International Paper Company Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to enable International Paper Company ("International Paper") to attract and retain persons of outstanding competence to serve as non-employee directors of International Paper, and to permit such non-employee directors to defer receipt of all or a portion of their annual retainer and committee fees, payable in cash or restricted shares of International Paper common stock, for services in 2005 and thereafter.
Prior to January 1, 2007, equity compensation to non-employee directors was governed by the International Paper Company Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, originally effective January 1, 1988; and, deferrals of cash and equity compensation by non-employee directors were governed by the International Paper Company Nonfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, originally effective December 11, 1973. Effective January 1, 2007, these two plans were combined into this Plan and renamed the International Paper Company Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
The Plan was amended, effective January 1, 2008, to conform the date used to determine the number of shares awarded for the fixed dollar value of compensation to the last business day immediately preceding the first day of the Performance Year. This was intended to conform the date used to determine the number of shares for the equity retainer under Section 3 with the date that has been used to determine the number of shares for the cash retainer under Section 4.
Effective May 11, 2009, this plan became a subplan of the International Paper Company 2009 Incentive Compensation Plan ("ICP"), consisting of a program for the grant of restricted stock under Article 9 of the ICP and referenced under Section 4.3 of the ICP.
This Plan is a non-funded, non-qualified deferred compensation plan that is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The Plan is not subject to full protection under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA").
2. Eligibility
Participation in this Plan is limited to persons who serve as members of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of International Paper and who are not employees of International Paper or its subsidiaries ("Participants"). An employee-director who retires from employment with International Paper (and its subsidiaries) shall become eligible to participate in this Plan upon his or her re-election as a non-employee director.
 
3. Equity Compensation
(a) Awards of restricted common stock of International Paper are made to each Participant on an annual basis on the day of the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of International Paper in an amount equal to: (i) a fixed dollar value determined by the independent members of the Board based on a review of competitive market practices of International Paper's comparator peer group of companies for compensation analysis (the "Compensation Comparator Group"), divided by (ii) the closing market price of common stock of International Paper as reported for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions on the last business day immediately preceding the first day of the Performance Year. The fixed dollar value for the annual restricted stock awards shall be set forth on hereto, as approved and changed from time to time by the independent members of the Board.
Exhibit A
(b) For purposes of this Plan, a "Performance Year" shall mean the approximately one-year period beginning on the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of International Paper for a given year and ending on the last business day immediately preceding the next Annual Meeting of Shareowners of International Paper.
(c) A Participant who is elected by the Board to fill a vacancy during a Performance Year shall receive a number of shares of restricted common stock representing a portion of the number of shares of restricted common stock awarded to non-employee directors for the Performance Year in which such Participant is elected, determined by dividing the number of full months of eligible service during the Performance Year by the number twelve (12).
pro rata
(d) Each award of restricted shares under this Plan shall be immediately registered in book entry form in the name of the Participant but shall be expressly subject to all of the restrictions, service provisions, and all other terms and conditions set forth in Section 6 of this Plan and the terms and conditions of the ICP, of which this Plan is a subplan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the ICP and the provisions of this Plan as it relates to restricted shares, the provisions of the ICP shall be controlling and determinative.
4. Cash Compensation
(a) Each non-employee director of the Board shall receive an annual cash retainer ("Cash Retainer Fee") in an amount determined by the independent members of the Board. Each non-employee director who serves as Chair of a standing committee of the Board, or as a member of a committee designated by the Board to have member fees, shall receive an additional annual cash retainer ("Committee Fee", which together with the Cash Retainer Fee shall be referred to as "Cash Compensation"). The amount of the Cash Compensation shall be determined by the independent members of the Board based on a review of competitive market practices of the International Paper's Compensation Comparator Group. The Cash Retainer Fee and Committee Fees shall be set forth on hereto, as approved and changed from time to time by the independent members of the Board,
Exhibit A
(b) Each non-employee director of the Board may elect, in the form and manner prescribed by International Paper, to receive shares of restricted stock of International Paper in lieu of all or a portion of his or her Cash Compensation. A non-employee director who elects to receive
 
shares of restricted stock in lieu of Cash Compensation will receive a number of shares of restricted stock determined by dividing (A) the sum of (i) the portion of Cash Compensation elected to be received in the form of restricted stock, plus (ii) an additional 20% of the Cash Retainer Fee, by (B) the closing market price of common stock of International Paper as reported for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions on the last business day immediately preceding the first day of the Performance Year.
5. Deferral Elections
(a) Prior to the first day of a calendar year, non-employee directors may elect to defer in the form of restricted stock units ("RSUs") receipt of all or a portion of shares of restricted stock or Cash Compensation for services on the Board in the following Performance Year by filing an initial deferral election notice in the manner and form prescribed by International Paper (the "Initial Deferral Election Notice").
(b) Non-employee directors newly elected to the Board may submit an Initial Deferral Election Notice by the 30
th
day after becoming eligible to participate in the Plan; but such deferral election shall be applicable only with respect to compensation earned after the filing of such Initial Deferral Election Notice.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Initial Deferral Election Notice may not be completed during a period when directors and officers of International Paper are restricted from trading in shares of International Paper common stock, referred to as a "Black-out Period."
(d) Deferral elections are effective for one Performance Year only and do not carry over from year to year. Participants must submit a new Initial Deferral Election Notice prior to the first day of each calendar year in order to defer compensation to be earned in the next Performance Year.
(e) An Initial Deferral Election Notice may change the percentage to be deferred only with respect to compensation payable on a prospective basis, and may not change the percentage to be deferred with respect to a prior year's election.
6. Restrictions, Removal of Restrictions, and Terms and Conditions of Awards of Restricted Shares
(a) A Participant shall have the right to receive all dividends and other distributions made with respect to restricted shares registered in his or her name, and shall have the right to vote or execute proxies with respect to such registered restricted shares, unless and until such shares are forfeited pursuant to the provisions of this Plan.
(b) A Participant shall have the right to elect, in the form and manner prescribed by International Paper, the manner in which dividends on shares of restricted stock shall be paid to the Participant (i.e., in cash or reinvested in additional shares of restricted stock).
(c) As indicated above, restricted stock awards under the Plan will normally be issued in book-entry form until the provisions of the Plan relating to removal of the restrictions have been satisfied. If stock certificates are issued for shares of restricted stock, such certificates shall be
 
endorsed with a legend referring to the restrictions imposed by this Plan. Possession of the certificates of shares shall be retained by the Corporate Secretary of International Paper until the provisions of the Plan relating to removal of the restrictions have been satisfied. After the expiration of the restricted period, stock certificates without such legend shall be delivered to the Participant or his or her designee upon request.
(d) Shares of restricted stock may not be sold, assigned, pledged or otherwise transferred by the Participant unless and until all of the restrictions imposed by this Plan have been removed pursuant to the provisions of this Plan.
(e) Shares of restricted stock awarded under this Plan on and after May 7, 2002, shall become free of restrictions and non-forfeitable on the first anniversary of the date of the award of the restricted shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, shares of restricted stock awarded under this Plan shall become free of restrictions and non-forfeitable upon the occurrence of one of the following events:
 
 
 
None of the shares of restricted stock awarded under this Plan prior to May 7, 2002 shall become free of restrictions and non-forfeitable until the termination of the Participant's service as a director of International Paper. Accordingly, such shares shall become non-forfeitable upon the occurrence of one of the following events:
 
 
 
 
Termination of service as a director for any reason other than those specified in this Section 7(e), including, without limitation, any involuntary termination effected by Board action, shall result in forfeiture of the restricted shares.
In accordance with the International Paper Corporate Governance Principles, directors shall retire effective December 31 of the year in which the director attains age 70, if the director was elected or appointed to the Board for the first time after July 13, 1999, or December 31 of the year in which the director attains the age of 72 for all other directors.
(f) In the event of a "change in control" of International Paper (as defined below), the Board may accelerate the removal of all restrictions relating to all or an equal portion of the outstanding restricted shares. Termination of Board service resulting from a change of control will result in immediate lapse of the forfeiture provisions relating to all of the affected director's restricted shares. In any situation involving acceleration of the removal of restrictions relating to the awarded shares upon a change of control, the Board may elect to repurchase such shares at the then fair market price instead of releasing the shares to the Participant owning such shares. For purposes of this Plan, a "change in control" of International Paper shall mean a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 1(a) of Form 8-K promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"); provided that, without limitation, such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred if (a) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act other than company benefit plans) except a transaction that is approved by the Board in accordance with the standards set forth in section 7-17 of the New York Business Corporation Law or any successor provision is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of International Paper representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of International Paper's then outstanding securities, or (b) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of International Paper cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof unless the election, or the nomination for election, by shareholders of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period.
(g) All shares with respect to which the restrictions are not removed in accordance with the provisions of this Plan shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Treasury of International Paper.
(h) All awarded shares shall remain subject to the Plan's restrictions prohibiting sales or transfer of such shares during the period of time while the Participant continues to serve as a director of International Paper, and all certificates of shares shall be endorsed with a legend referring to such restriction; in addition, the issuance or delivery of any shares may be postponed for such period as may be required to comply with any applicable requirements of any national securities exchange or any requirements under any other law or regulation applicable to the issuance or delivery of such shares, and International Paper shall not be obligated to issue or deliver any such shares if the issuance or delivery thereof shall constitute a violation of any provision of any law or any regulation of any governmental authority or any national securities exchange.
 
7. Restrictions, Removal of Restrictions, and Terms and Conditions of Awards of Restricted Share Units
(a) All amounts deferred in the form of RSUs shall be issued pursuant to and shall be subject to the terms and condition of the ICP. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the ICP and the provisions of this Plan as it relates to RSUs, the provisions of the ICP shall be controlling and determinative. All such RSUs shall be credited to a bookkeeping account on behalf of the Participant. Such account shall be credited with a number of RSUs (calculated to the nearest thousandth of a unit) computed by dividing: (i) the value of the Cash Compensation and restricted stock deferred for the Performance Year by (ii) the closing market price of common stock of International Paper as reported for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions on the last business day immediately preceding the first day of the Performance Year.
(b) RSUs may not be sold, assigned, pledged or otherwise transferred by the Participant. If any such assignment is made, International Paper may disregard such assignment and may discharge its obligation hereunder by making payment as though no such assignment had been made.
(c) A Participant has an interest as an unsecured creditor in the cash value represented by the RSUs in his or her account, but has no interests or rights in any common stock of International Paper or dividends, and has no right to elect delivery of shares of common stock of International Paper.
(d) RSUs shall vest annually upon the last day of the Performance Year, pro rated for the number of months of service in such Performance Year.
(e) Whenever a dividend is declared on the common stock of International Paper, the number of RSUs in the Participant's account shall be increased by the result of the following calculation:
 
 
(f) A statement shall be delivered to each Participant in this Plan annually setting forth the amount deferred, the amount of RSUs credited to the Participant's account, the amount of any payments made during the year, and the closing market price of International Paper common stock used for determining the number of RSUs earned and credited through dividend
 
equivalents.
8. Time and Method of Payment of RSUs
(a) After a Participant ceases to be a director of International Paper (and has incurred a "separation from service" as defined in Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations), payment of RSUs shall be made in the form of a lump sum cash payment payable in January of the next calendar year following the year in which the Participant terminates service as a director.
(b) The amount payable to the Participant shall be equal to (i) the number of RSUs credited to the Participant's account multiplied by (ii) the closing price of common stock of International Paper as reported for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions on the last business day of the calendar year in which the Participant terminates service as a director.
9. Amendment or Termination of Plan
International Paper reserves the right to amend, modify or terminate this Plan at any time by action of the Board, provided (a) no amendment shall be made more than once every six months, other than to comport with changes in the Code, ERISA, or the rules thereunder; (b) that such action shall not adversely affect any Participant's rights under the provisions of this Plan with respect to awards of restricted stock or RSUs that were made prior to such action; (c) that such amendment is consistent with Section 409A of the Code and any regulations promulgated thereunder; and (d) that no modification of this Plan shall be made which shall increase the aggregate number of shares available for award under this Plan without the approval of the shareowners of International Paper.
10. Source of Funds for Payment of RSUs
Any benefit payments to Participants pursuant to the Plan shall be paid from the general assets of International Paper. Participants shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of International Paper and the Plan constitutes a mere promise by International Paper to make benefit payments in the future. Any contract, policy or other asset which International Paper may utilize to assure themselves of the funds to provide the benefits under the Plan shall not serve in any way as security for the payment of Plan benefits and International Paper shall not be under any obligation whatsoever to purchase or maintain any contract, policy or other asset to provide the benefits payable under the Plan.
11. Administration of Plan
This Plan shall be administered by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of International Paper (the "Administrator"). All decisions which are made by the Administrator with respect to interpretation of the terms of the Plan, with respect to the restrictions, terms and conditions of the restricted shares, and with respect to any questions or disputes arising under this Plan, shall be final and binding on International Paper and the Participants (and their heirs or beneficiaries).
 
12. Changes in Stock and Adjustment of Number under the Plan
In the event of any stock dividend, split-up, reclassification or other analogous change in capitalization or any distribution (other than regular cash dividends) to holders of International Paper's common stock, the number of shares awarded and earned under this Plan, and the aggregate number of shares covered by this Plan shall be equitably and proportionately adjusted by the Administrator to take account of such change, all in accordance with the terms of the ICP.
13. Designation of Beneficiary
A Participant may file with the Administrator a designation of beneficiary or beneficiaries on a form approved by the Administrator (which designation may be changed or revoked by the Participant's sole action) to receive distribution of all or a designated portion of the Participant's restricted stock account and/or RSUs under this Plan upon the death of the Participant. If no beneficiary has been designated or survives the Participant, then the account shall be distributed as directed by the executor or administrator of the Participant's estate.
 
The following compensation amounts are effective for the Performance Year beginning May 11, 2009, and shall remain in effect for future Performance Years until changed by the independent members of the Board.
 
 


