FILE:IP/IP-8K-20110831171158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. REGISTRANT'S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS.
 
On August 26, 2011, International Paper Company (the "Company"), as borrower, entered into a $1.5 billion five-year credit agreement (the "New Credit Agreement") with a syndicate of banks and other financial institutions (the "Lenders"), including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., individually and as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., individually and as syndication agent, and UBS Loan Finance LLC, individually and as documentation agent. The syndicate of Lenders was arranged by J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners.
The New Credit Agreement replaced the $1.5 billion Three-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 20, 2009, among the Company, certain of the Company's subsidiaries, as guarantors, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., individually and as administrative agent, and certain lenders (the "Terminated Agreement"). The Terminated Agreement was terminated effective August 26, 2011.
The New Credit Agreement provides the terms under which the Lenders will make available to the Company an unsecured revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount of up to $1.5 billion, including an option to increase the size of the facility post closing to an aggregate amount of up to $2 billion. Borrowings under the New Credit Agreement may be used for the Company's general corporate purposes, including acquisition financing. As of August 31, 2011, the Company had not made any borrowings under the New Credit Agreement.
The Lenders' commitments under the New Credit Agreement will terminate on August 26, 2016, unless terminated earlier by the Company or by the administrative agent upon an event of default.
Borrowings under the New Credit Agreement generally will bear interest at a rate per year equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, for the applicable interest period a margin, which based on the Company's current senior unsecured long-term debt ratings ("Ratings") equals 1.20%, unless the Company elects to borrow under one of the other options permitted in the New Credit Agreement. The Company will also pay on an annual basis a facility fee on the aggregate amount of all commitments, which based on the Company's current Ratings equals 0.175%. Both the applicable margin for borrowings and the applicable facility fee will vary depending upon the Company's Ratings then in effect.
plus
The New Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, as well as customary events of default. The financial covenants in the New Credit Agreement are identical to the ones in the Terminated Agreement and require the Company to maintain a:
 
 
Certain of the Lenders, as well as certain of the lenders under the Terminated Agreement, and their affiliates engage in transactions with, and perform services for, the Company and its affiliates in the ordinary course of business and have engaged, and may in the future engage, in other commercial banking transactions and investment banking, financial advisory and other financial services transactions with the Company and its affiliates.
The foregoing description of the New Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the New Credit Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 regarding the Terminated Agreement is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02.
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
 
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of August 26, 2011, between INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY, the LENDERS party hereto, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
The Company has requested that the Lenders (as hereinafter defined) make loans to the Company and to Approved Borrowers (as so defined) in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $1,500,000,000 at any one time outstanding. The Lenders are prepared to make such loans upon the terms and conditions hereof, and, accordingly, the parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"" means the 3-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 20, 2009 between the Company, each of the lenders party thereto and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent.
2009 Credit Agreement
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans constituting such Borrowing, are denominated in Dollars and bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means, for the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate for such Interest Period.
Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate
"" means JPMCB, in its capacity as Administrative Agent for the Lenders hereunder and any successor pursuant to Article VIII.
Administrative Agent
"" means, for each Currency, an account in respect of such Currency designated by the Administrative Agent in a notice to the Company and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Account
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning set forth in the introductory section.
Agreement
"" means, for any day, a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of (a) the rate of interest announced publicly by the Administrative Agent in New York, New York, from time to time, as the Administrative Agent's prime rate on such day, (b) 0.50% per annum above the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day and (c) 1% per annum above the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day); that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate for any day shall be based on LIBOR for deposits in Dollars as reported on the Screen or, if such service is not available, by
Alternate Base Rate
provided
 
any other generally recognized financial information service as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on such day. Each change in any interest rate provided for herein based upon the Alternate Base Rate resulting from a change in the Alternate Base Rate shall take effect at the time of such change in the Alternate Base Rate.
"" means any Requirement of Law related to terrorism financing or money laundering including the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act ("Patriot Act") of 2001 (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56), The Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act (also known as the "Bank Secrecy Act", 31 U.S.C.  5311-5330 and 12 U.S.C.  1818(s), 1820(b) and 1951-1959), the Trading With the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C.  1 et seq., as amended) and Executive Order 13224 (effective September 24, 2001).
Anti-Terrorism Laws
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.01(b).
Applicable Lender
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Percentage
"" means, for any day, with respect to the facility fees payable hereunder, or with respect to any Syndicated Loan, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Facility Fee" or "Eurocurrency Margin" and/or "ABR Margin", respectively, based upon the long-term debt ratings by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt:
Applicable Rate
 
For purposes of the foregoing, (i) if either Moody's or S&P shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this definition), then such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in the lowest category in the schedule above; (ii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall fall within different categories in the schedule above, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the higher of the two ratings; unless one of the two ratings is two or more categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the category next below that of the higher of the two ratings; and (iii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding
 
the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Company (on its own behalf and on behalf of each Approved Borrower) and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.
"" means (i) each of the entities set forth on Schedule III and (ii) any Wholly Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of the Company as to which a Designation Letter has been delivered to the Administrative Agent and as to which a Termination Letter shall not have been delivered to the Administrative Agent, which Subsidiary has been approved as a borrower hereunder by the Administrative Agent and the Applicable Lenders, all in accordance with Section 2.01(b).
Approved Borrower
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee pursuant to Section 9.04, in substantially the form of Exhibit A.
Assignment and Assumption
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.19.
Augmenting Lender
"" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Commitment Termination Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
"" means title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code entitled "Bankruptcy", as now and hereafter in effect, or any successor statute.
Bankruptcy Code
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means the Company and each Approved Borrower.
Borrowers
"" means (a) all ABR Loans made, converted or continued on the same date or (b) all Syndicated Eurocurrency Loans or Competitive Loans of the same Class, Type and Currency that have the same Interest Period (or any single Competitive Loan that does not have the same Interest Period as any other Competitive Loan of the same Type and Currency). For purposes hereof, the date of a Syndicated Borrowing comprising one or more Loans that have been converted or continued shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Loan or Loans.
Borrowing
"" means a request by a Borrower for a Syndicated Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" means any day (a) that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed, (b) if such day relates to a Competitive Bid Request or Competitive Bid for a Competitive Eurocurrency Loan (other than any such Loan denominated in Euros), or to a borrowing of, a payment or prepayment of principal of or interest on, a continuation or conversion of or into, or the Interest Period for, a Eurocurrency Borrowing (other than any such Borrowing denominated in Euros), or to a notice by the Company with
Business Day
 
respect to any such borrowing, payment, prepayment, continuation, conversion, or Interest Period, that is also (i) a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which commercial banks are open for general business in London and (ii) if the applicable Currency is a Foreign Currency (other than Euros) that is also a day on which commercial banks are open for general business in the Principal Financial Center for such Currency and (c) if such day relates to a Competitive Bid Request or Competitive Bid for a Competitive Eurocurrency Loan denominated in Euros, or to a borrowing or continuation of, a payment or prepayment of principal of or interest on, or the Interest Period for, any Borrowing denominated in Euros, or to a notice by the Company with respect to any such borrowing, continuation, payment, prepayment or Interest Period, that is also a Target Operating Day.
"" means, as to any Person, the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under a lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to use) real and/or personal property which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as a capital lease on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP (including Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13 of the Financial Accounting Standards Board) and, for purposes of this Agreement, the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof, determined in accordance with GAAP (including such Statement No. 13).
Capital Lease Obligations
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.13(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement; , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives thereunder, issued in connection therewith or in implementation thereof, and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law" regardless of the date enacted, adopted, issued or implemented.
Change in Law
provided
however
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans constituting such Borrowing, are Syndicated Loans or Competitive Loans.
Class
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Syndicated Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.07, (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04 and (c) increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.19. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule I or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $1,500,000,000.
Commitment
"" means August 26, 2016.
Commitment Termination Date
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.01(b).
Communications
"" means International Paper Company, a New York corporation.
Company
 
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans constituting such Borrowing, are made pursuant to Section 2.04.
Competitive
"" means an offer by a Lender to make a Competitive Loan in accordance with Section 2.04.
Competitive Bid
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Bid, the Margin or the Fixed Rate, as applicable, offered by the Lender making such Competitive Bid.
Competitive Bid Rate
"" means a request by a Borrower for Competitive Bids in accordance with Section 2.04.
Competitive Bid Request
"" means any Loan made in accordance with Section 2.04.
Competitive Loan
"" means, as at any time, the sum of the following for the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis (without duplication) in accordance with GAAP:
Consolidated Net Worth
(a) the amount of capital stock;
plus
(b) the amount of surplus and retained earnings (or, in the case of a surplus or retained earnings deficit, minus the amount of such deficit);
minus
(c) the cost of treasury shares.
, , the foregoing calculation shall not take into account any (i) impairment of goodwill arising under Accounting Standards Codification 350 regardless of whether such impairment arises prior to or after the date hereof and (ii) election to value any Indebtedness or other liabilities at "fair value", as further described in Section 1.04(a).
provided
however
"" means, as to any Person, each Subsidiary of such Person (whether now existing or hereafter created or acquired) the financial statements of which shall be (or should have been) consolidated with the financial statements of such Person in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Subsidiary
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
"" means Dollars or any Foreign Currency.
Currency
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means any Lender, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, that has (a) failed to fund any portion of its Loans within three (3) Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such Lender's failure to fund such Loan is based on such Lender's good faith determination that the conditions precedent to funding such Loan under this Agreement have not been satisfied and such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent in writing of such determination, (b) notified the Company, the Administrative Agent or any Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under (i) this
Defaulting Lender
 
Agreement or (ii) under other agreements in which it is obligated to extend credit unless, in the case of this clause (ii), such obligation is the subject of a good faith dispute, (c) failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligations to fund prospective Loans unless subject to a good faith dispute based on such Lender's good faith determination that the conditions precedent to funding such Loan under this Agreement have not been satisfied and such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent in writing of such determination, provided that any such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender under this clause (c) upon receipt of such confirmation by the Administrative Agent, (d) otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three (3) Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (e) (i) become or is insolvent or has a parent company that has become or is insolvent or (ii) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian, appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment or has a parent company that has become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment, unless, in the case of any Lender referred to in this clause (e) the Company and the Administrative Agent shall agree in writing that such Lender intends, and has all approvals required to enable it, to continue to perform its obligations as a Lender hereunder; provided, that a Lender shall not become a Defaulting Lender solely as the result of (x) the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or a Person controlling such Lender or (y) the exercise of control over a Lender or a Person controlling such Lender, in the case of each of (x) and (y), by a Governmental Authority or an instrumentality thereof.
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.01(b).
Designation Letter
"" means, with respect to any Borrowing denominated in any Foreign Currency, the amount of Dollars that would be required to purchase the amount of the Foreign Currency of such Borrowing on the date two Business Days prior to the date of such Borrowing (or, in the case of any determination made under Section 2.09(b) or redenomination under the last sentence of Section 2.17(a), on the date of determination or redenomination therein referred to), based upon the spot selling rate at which the Administrative Agent offers to sell such Foreign Currency for Dollars in the London foreign exchange market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, for delivery two Business Days later.
Dollar Equivalent
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 5.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
Effective Date
"" means any party that (i) is publicly identified on the most current list of "Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons" published by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control ("") or resides, is organized or chartered, or has a place of business in a country or territory subject to OFAC sanctions or embargo programs or (ii) is publicly identified as prohibited from doing business with the United States under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the Trading With the Enemy Act, or any other Requirement of Law.
Embargoed Person
OFAC
"" means ambient air, indoor air, surface water, sediments, groundwater, land surface and subsurface strata, and natural resources such as wetlands, flora and fauna.
Environment
 
"" means the common law and any and all Federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, or other governmental restrictions relating to pollution or the protection of the Environment or to emissions, discharges, Releases or threatened Releases of Hazardous Materials, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport, or handling of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Laws
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any corporation or trade or business which is a member of the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Code) as the Company or is under common control (within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Code) with the Company.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043(c) of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal of the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition upon the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA Event
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans constituting such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to (a) in the case of a Syndicated Loan or Borrowing, the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate, or (b) in the case of a Competitive Loan or Borrowing, the Eurocurrency Rate.
Eurocurrency
"" means, for the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in any Currency, the rate appearing on the Screen at the Specified Time on the Quotation Date for such Currency, as IBOR for deposits denominated in such Currency with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available on the Screen at such Specified Time for any reason, then, unless the last sentence of Section 9.13(e) is applicable, the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which deposits in such Currency in the amount of $5,000,000 (or its equivalent in the applicable Foreign Currency) and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at the Specified Time on the Quotation Date; provided that the Eurocurrency Rate for any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period denominated in Sterling shall be increased by the MCR Cost.
Eurocurrency Rate
"" means for Euros, the rate at which deposits denominated in Euros are offered to leading banks in the Brussels interbank market.
Eur-IBOR
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.13(a).
Euros
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
Event of Default
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which such Borrower is located, (c) any taxes imposed on a Foreign Lender or the Administrative Agent as a result of such Lender's or the Administrative Agent's (in the event the Lender acting as the Administrative Agent is a Foreign Lender) failure to comply with FATCA and (d) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Company under Section 2.18(b)), any withholding tax resulting from any law, rule, regulation or other requirement in effect at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability to comply with Section 2.15(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender's assignor (if any) was entitled, at the time of assignment, to receive additional amounts from such Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.15(a).
Excluded Taxes
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantially comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with), and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Loan (other than a Competitive Eurocurrency Loan), the fixed rate of interest per annum specified by the Lender making such Competitive Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Fixed Rate
"" means a Competitive Loan bearing interest at a Fixed Rate.
Fixed Rate Loan
"" means at any time any currency other than Dollars.
Foreign Currency
"" means, with respect to any amount in Dollars, the amount of any Foreign Currency that could be purchased with such amount of Dollars using the reciprocal of the foreign exchange rate(s) specified in the definition of the term "Dollar Equivalent", as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Foreign Currency Equivalent
"" means any jurisdiction other than the United States of America, a State thereof, the District of Columbia or any political subdivision of any of the foregoing.
Foreign Jurisdiction
 
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a Foreign Jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means, with respect to any Approved Borrower organized under a Foreign Jurisdiction, all present and future income, stamp, registration and other taxes and levies, imposts, deductions, charges, compulsory loans and withholdings whatsoever, and all interest, penalties or similar amounts with respect thereto, now or hereafter imposed, assessed, levied or collected by such Foreign Jurisdiction, or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein, or by any federal or other association of or with which such Foreign Jurisdiction may be a member or associated, on or in respect of this Agreement, the Loans made to such Approved Borrower, the recording, registration, notarization or other formalization of any thereof, the enforcement thereof or the introduction thereof in any judicial proceedings, or on or in respect of any payments of principal, interest, premiums, charges, fees or other amounts made on, under or in respect of any thereof, excluding, however income taxes imposed upon the overall net income of any Lender organized under the laws of such Foreign Jurisdiction and having an applicable lending office in such Foreign Jurisdiction.
Foreign Taxes
"" means generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with those which, in accordance with Section 1.04, are to be used in making the calculations for purposes of determining compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" means a guarantee, an endorsement, a contingent agreement to purchase or to furnish funds for the payment or maintenance of, or otherwise to be or become contingently liable under or with respect to, the Indebtedness, other obligations, net worth, working capital or earnings of any Person, or a guarantee of the payment of dividends or other distributions upon the stock of any corporation, or an agreement to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, products, materials, supplies or services primarily for the purpose of enabling a debtor to make payment of his, her or its obligations or an agreement to assure a creditor against loss, and including causing a bank to open a letter of credit for the benefit of another Person, but excluding endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The terms "Guarantee" and "Guaranteed" used as a verb shall have a correlative meaning.
Guarantee
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 4.01.
Guaranteed Obligations
"" means any materials, substances, chemicals, wastes, constituents, compounds, pollutants, or contaminants, in any form, including crude oil, petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos, or asbestos-containing materials, regulated, or which can give rise to liability, under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means (a) for all Currencies other than Euros, LIBOR and (b) for Euros, Eur-IBOR.
IBOR
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.19.
Increasing Lender
"" means, as to any Person: (a) indebtedness created, issued or incurred by such Person for borrowed money (whether by loan or the issuance and sale of debt securities); (b) obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase or acquisition price of property or services, other
Indebtedness
 
than trade accounts payable (other than for borrowed money) arising, and accrued expenses incurred, in the ordinary course of business so long as such trade accounts payable are payable within 90 days of the date the respective goods are delivered or the respective services are rendered; (c) indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on the property of such Person, whether or not the respective indebtedness so secured has been assumed by such Person; (d) obligations of such Person in respect of letters of credit or similar instruments issued or accepted by banks and other financial institutions for the account of such Person; (e) Capital Lease Obligations of such Person; and (f) Indebtedness of others Guaranteed by such Person.
"" means Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on any payment made by or on account of any Borrower hereunder.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.03.
Indemnitee
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term debt securities that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.12.
Information
"" means a request by a Borrower to convert or continue a Syndicated Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.06.
Interest Election Request
"" means the Commitment Termination Date and (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, each Quarterly Date, (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of each Interest Period therefor and, in the case of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Loan that is more than three months long, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months after the first day of such Interest Period and (c) with respect to any Fixed Rate Loan, the last day of the Interest Period therefor and, in the case of any Interest Period for a Fixed Rate Loan that is more than 90 days long (unless otherwise specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request), each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of 90 days after the first day of such Interest Period, and any other dates that are specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request as Interest Payment Dates with respect to such Loan.
Interest Payment Date
"" means:
Interest Period
(a) for any Borrowing (other than an ABR Borrowing), the Interest Period of the Loan or Loans constituting such Borrowing;
(b) for any Syndicated Eurocurrency Loan, the period commencing on the date of such Loan and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter or, with respect to such portion of any Syndicated Eurocurrency Loan denominated in Euros that is scheduled to be repaid on the Commitment Termination Date, a period of less than one month's duration commencing on the date of such Loan and ending on the Commitment Termination Date, as specified in the applicable Borrowing Request or Interest Election Request;
(c) for any Competitive Eurocurrency Loan, the period commencing on the date of such Loan and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter ( that in no event shall any such Interest Period end after the Commitment Termination Date) or, with respect to such portion of any Competitive Eurocurrency Loan denominated in a Foreign Currency that is scheduled to be repaid on the Commitment Termination Date, a period of less than one month's duration commencing on the date of such Loan and ending on the Commitment Termination Date, as specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request; and
provided
 
(d) for any Fixed Rate Loan, the period (which shall not be less than 30 days or more than 360 days) commencing on the date of such Loan and ending on the date specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request ( that in no event shall any Interest Period for a Fixed Rate Loan end after the Commitment Termination Date);
provided
, that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day, and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Borrowing (other than an Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency that ends on the Commitment Termination Date that is permitted to be of less than one month's duration as provided in this definition) that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Loan initially shall be the date on which such Loan is made and, in the case of a Syndicated Loan, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Loan.
provided
"" means International Paper Investments S.A., a French corporation.
IPISA
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMCB
"" means International Paper - Kwidzyn sp. z o.o., a Polish joint stock company.
Kwidzyn
"" means (i) Kwidzyn, (ii) Kwidzyn France, as long as it holds no assets other than (A) interests in Kwidzyn, (B) cash and cash equivalents and (C) "political risk" insurance policies with respect to Kwidzyn, and (iii) International Paper Investments (Poland), Inc., a Delaware corporation, as long as it holds no assets other than (A) interests in and contracts with Kwidzyn, (B) unless Kwidzyn France is not then a Kwidzyn Entity, interests in Kwidzyn France and (C) cash and cash equivalents.
Kwidzyn Entity
"" means Celouse et Papiers de Pologne, S.A., a French corporation.
Kwidzyn France
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., in their capacity as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners in respect of the credit facility hereunder.
Lead Arrangers
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule I and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.19 or pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption.
Lenders
"" means for all Currencies other than Euros, the rate at which deposits denominated in such Currency are offered to leading banks in the London interbank market.
LIBOR
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset. For purposes of this Agreement, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset which it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset.
Lien
 
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" means, with respect to any Loan denominated in or any payment to be made in any Currency, the local time in the Principal Financial Center for the Currency in which such Loan is denominated or such payment is to be made.
Local Time
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate, the marginal rate of interest, if any, to be added to or subtracted from the Eurocurrency Rate to determine the rate of interest applicable to such Loan, as specified by the Lender making such Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Margin
"" means margin stock within the meaning of Regulations U and X.
Margin Stock
"" means a material adverse change in, or material adverse effect on, the business, results of operations or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means any Subsidiary of the Company (i) which, as of the most recent fiscal quarter of the Company, for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended, for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 6.01, contributed greater than ten percent (10%) of consolidated revenues for such period or (ii) which contributed greater than ten percent (10%) of Total Assets as of such date; that, if the aggregate amount of consolidated revenues or Total Assets attributable to all Subsidiaries that are not Material Subsidiaries exceeds fifteen percent (15%) of consolidated revenues for any such period or fifteen percent (15%) of Total Assets as of the end of any such fiscal quarter, the Company (or, in the event the Company has failed to do so within ten days after delivery of the most recent financial statements pursuant to Section 6.01, the Administrative Agent) shall designate sufficient Subsidiaries as "Material Subsidiaries" to eliminate such excess, and such designated Subsidiaries shall for all purposes of this Agreement constitute Material Subsidiaries.
Material Subsidiary
provided
"" means the Commitment Termination Date (and if such date is not a Business Day, then the next preceding Business Day).
Maturity Date
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the cost imputed to such Lender of compliance with the Mandatory Cost Rate requirements of the Bank of England during the relevant period, determined in accordance with Schedule IV.
MCR Cost
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.01(c).
MNPI
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan defined as such in Section 3(37) of ERISA to which contributions have been made by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate and which is covered by Title IV of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.01(a).
Notice
"" means the Borrowers.
Obligors
 
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(c).
Participant
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in 9.04(c)(ii).
Participant Register
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of "Anti-Terrorism Laws".
Patriot Act
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.12(a).
Permits
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee benefit or other plan established or maintained by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate and which is covered by Title IV of ERISA, other than a Multiemployer Plan.
Plan
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.01(b).
Platform
"" means, in the case of any Currency, the principal financial center where such Currency is cleared and settled, as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Principal Financial Center
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.01(c).
Private Sider Communications
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.01(c).
Private Siders
"" means (i) Indebtedness of any Kwidzyn Entity or (ii) Indebtedness of the Company, IPISA or International Paper S.A., a French corporation, that constitutes Indebtedness of such Person due solely to the pledge, on a non-recourse basis, by such Person of Indebtedness or capital stock of any Kwidzyn Entity held by such Person to secure Indebtedness of any Kwidzyn Entity to any other Person or Persons or (iii) Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or development of Project Assets (as defined in Section 6.07(h)); in the case of this clause (iii) that (x) such Indebtedness is non-recourse to any other assets and (y) the aggregate principal amount of such Indebtedness may at no time exceed $200,000,000.
Project Indebtedness
provided
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.01(c).
Public Siders
"" means the last Business Day of March, June, September and December in each year, the first of which shall be the first such day after the date hereof.
Quarterly Dates
"" means, for the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in any Currency the date two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, that if market practice differs in the relevant interbank market for any Foreign Currency, the "Quotation Date" for such Foreign Currency shall be determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with market practice in the relevant interbank market (and if quotations would normally be given by leading banks in the relevant interbank market on more than one day, the "Quotation Date" shall be the last of such days).
Quotation Date
provided
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(b).
Register
"" means, respectively, Regulations D, U and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor), as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
Regulations D, U and X
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any release, spill, emission, leaking, dumping, injection, pouring, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching or migration into or through the Environment, or from, into or through any building or structure.
Release
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time ( that, and for all purposes after the Loans become due and payable pursuant to Article VII or the Commitments expire or terminate, the outstanding Competitive Loans of the Lenders shall be included in their respective Revolving Credit Exposures in determining the Required Lenders).
Required Lenders
provided
"" means, collectively, any and all requirements of any Governmental Authority including any and all laws, judgments, orders, decrees, ordinances, rules, regulations, statutes or case law.
Requirements of Law
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Syndicated Loans at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" means, for any Currency, the relevant display page for IBOR for such Currency (as determined by the Administrative Agent) on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service; that, if the Administrative Agent determines that there is no such relevant display page for IBOR for such Currency, "Screen" shall mean the relevant display page for IBOR for such Currency (as determined by the Administrative Agent) on the Reuter Monitor Money Rates Service. As of the date hereof, the relevant display page for IBOR for all Currencies other than Euros is LIBOR01 Page, and the relevant display page for IBOR for Euros is Page 248.
Screen
provided
"" means, for the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in any Currency, (a) for all Currencies other than English Pounds Sterling or Euros, approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the relevant Quotation Date, (b) for English Pounds Sterling, approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the relevant Quotation Date and (c) for Euros, approximately 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on the relevant Quotation Date.
Specified Time
 
"" means, for the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing, a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the arithmetic mean, taken over each day in such Interest Period, of the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, as to any Person, (a) any corporation of which at least a majority of the outstanding shares of stock whose class or classes have by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person or one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person and (b) any partnership or other entity in which such Person and/or one or more Subsidiaries of such Person shall have an ownership or controlling interest (whether in the form of voting or participation in profits or capital contribution) of more than 50%. "" means any Subsidiary of which all of such shares or ownership interests, other than (in the case of a corporation) directors' qualifying shares, are owned or controlled by such Person and/or one or more Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
"" means any Borrowing of a Syndicated Loan.
Syndicated Borrowing
"" means any Borrowing of Syndicated Eurocurrency Loans.
Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing
"" means any Syndicated Loan that is Eurocurrency Loan.
Syndicated Eurocurrency Loan
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01.
Syndicated Loan
"" means, at any time, Total Assets the sum of the items identified in clause (c) of the definition in this Section 1.01 of the term "Tangible Net Worth".
Tangible Assets
minus
"" means, as at any time, the sum of the following for the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis (without duplication) in accordance with GAAP:
Tangible Net Worth
(a) the amount of capital stock;
plus
(b) the amount of surplus and retained earnings (or, in the case of a surplus or retained earnings deficit, the amount of such deficit);
minus
minus
(c) the sum of the following: cost of treasury shares and the book value of all assets of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries which should be classified as intangibles (without duplication of deductions in respect of items already deducted in arriving at surplus and retained earnings) but in any event including goodwill, research and development costs, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and franchises, unamortized debt discount and expense, and any write-up in the book value of assets resulting from a revaluation thereof subsequent to December 31, 2003 (other than any write-up, at the time of its acquisition, in the book value of any asset acquired subsequent to December 31, 2003).
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.13(a).
Target Operating Day
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges and similar fees, assessments or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.01(b).
Termination Letter
"" means, at any time, the total assets of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at such time determined on a consolidated basis (without duplication) in accordance with GAAP.
Total Assets
"" means, at any date, Consolidated Net Worth Total Debt each determined as of such date.
Total Capital
plus
"" means, at any time, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Indebtedness of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at such time determined on a consolidated basis (without duplication) in accordance with GAAP.
Total Debt
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans constituting such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate, the Alternate Base Rate or, in the case of a Competitive Loan or Borrowing, the Eurocurrency Rate or a Fixed Rate.
Type
"" means a Consolidated Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company.
Wholly Owned Consolidated Subsidiary
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of "Subsidiary."
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
SECTION 1.02. . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Syndicated Loan"), by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Loan") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Syndicated Eurocurrency Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Syndicated Borrowing"), by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Borrowing") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing"). Loans and Borrowings may also be identified by Currency.
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
SECTION 1.03. . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or
Terms Generally
 
modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and permitted assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
SECTION 1.04.
Accounting Terms and Determinations.
(a) . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Company notifies the Administrative Agent that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Company that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature used herein shall be construed, and all computations of amounts and ratios referred to herein shall be made (i) without giving effect to any election under Accounting Standards Codification 825-10-25 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any Indebtedness or other liabilities of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries at "fair value", as defined therein, (ii) without giving effect to any treatment of Indebtedness in respect of convertible debt instruments under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any such Indebtedness in a reduced or bifurcated manner as described therein, and such Indebtedness shall at all times be valued at the full stated principal amount thereof, (iii) the accounting for operating leases and capital leases under GAAP as in effect on the date hereof (including, without limitation, Accounting Standards Codification 840) shall apply for the purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, including the definition of Capital Lease Obligations and (iv) the accounting principles with respect to balance sheet offsetting under GAAP as in effect on the date hereof (including, without limitation, Accounting Standards Codification 210) shall apply for purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Accounting Terms
provided
(b) . The Company shall deliver to the Lenders at the same time as the delivery of any annual or quarterly financial statement under Section 6.01 a description in reasonable detail of any material variation between the application of accounting principles employed in the preparation of such statement and the application of accounting principles employed in the preparation of the next preceding annual or quarterly financial statements as to which no objection has been made in accordance with the last sentence of paragraph (a) above and reasonable estimates of the difference between such statements arising as a consequence thereof.
Descriptions of Material Variations
(c) . To enable the ready and consistent determination of compliance with the covenants set forth in Article VI, the Company will not change the last day of its fiscal year from December 31 of each year, or the last days of the first three fiscal quarters in each of its fiscal years from March 31, June 30 and September 30 of each year, respectively, without giving prior notice of such change to each Lender and the Administrative Agent.
Changes of Fiscal Years
 
SECTION 1.05. . At any time, any reference in any provision of this Agreement to the Currency of any particular nation means the lawful currency of such nation at such time whether or not the name of such Currency is the same as it was on the date hereof. Except as provided in Section 2.09(b) and the last sentence of Section 2.17(a), for purposes of determining (i) whether the amount of any Borrowing, together with all other Borrowings then outstanding or to be borrowed at the same time as such Borrowing, would exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments, (ii) the aggregate unutilized amount of the Commitments and (iii) the outstanding aggregate principal amount of Borrowings, the outstanding principal amount of any Borrowing that is denominated in any Foreign Currency shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of the Foreign Currency of such Borrowing determined as of the date of such Borrowing (determined in accordance with the last sentence of the definition of the term "Borrowing"). Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Borrowing or Loan an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in Dollars, but such Borrowing or Loan is denominated in a Foreign Currency, such amount shall be the relevant Foreign Currency Equivalent of such Dollar amount (rounded to the nearest 1,000 units of such Foreign Currency).
Currencies; Currency Equivalents
SECTION 2.01.
The Commitments; Borrowings by Approved Borrowers.
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Syndicated Loans in Dollars to the Borrowers from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (i) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow Syndicated Loans.
The Commitments
plus
(b) . The Company may, at any time or from time to time during the Availability Period, designate one or more Wholly Owned Consolidated Subsidiaries as Borrowers hereunder by furnishing to the Administrative Agent not less than 10 days prior to the proposed effective date therefor, a letter (a "") in duplicate, substantially in the form of Exhibit D-1, duly completed and executed by the Company and such Subsidiary. Following the delivery of a Designation Letter pursuant to this Section 2.01(b), the Company shall, promptly upon the request of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, supply such documentation and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in order for the Administrative Agent or such Lender to carry out and be satisfied it has complied with the results of all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations. Upon approval by the Administrative Agent and the Applicable Lenders (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned) of such Subsidiary as an Approved Borrower, which approval shall be evidenced by the Administrative Agent and the Applicable Lenders signing and returning to the Company a copy of such Designation Letter, such Subsidiary shall be an Approved Borrower. If the Company shall designate as an Approved Borrower hereunder any Subsidiary not organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, any Lender may, with notice to the Administrative Agent and the Company, fulfill its Commitment by causing an Affiliate of such Lender to act as the Lender in respect of such Approved Borrower (and such Lender shall, to the extent of Loans made to such Approved Borrower, be deemed for all purposes hereof to have assigned such Loans to such Affiliate in compliance with the provisions of Section 9.04), , such Affiliate is not entitled at the time of designation to any greater payment under Section 2.16 than such Lender. So long as all principal and interest on all Loans of
Borrowings by Approved Borrowers
Designation Letter
pro tanto
provided that
 
any Approved Borrower and all other amounts payable by such Approved Borrower hereunder have been paid in full, the Company may terminate its status as an Approved Borrower hereunder by furnishing to the Administrative Agent a letter (a ""), substantially in the form of Exhibit D-2, duly completed and executed by the Company and such Approved Borrower. Any Termination Letter furnished in accordance with this Section shall be effective upon receipt by the Administrative Agent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the delivery of a Termination Letter with respect to any Approved Borrower shall not affect any obligation of such Approved Borrower theretofore incurred. As used herein, "Applicable Lenders" means (i) in the case of Syndicated Borrowings to be made to any proposed Subsidiary, all of the Lenders and (ii) in the case of Competitive Loans to any proposed Subsidiary, any Lender willing to make such Competitive Loans (it being understood that the approval by such Lender of such proposed Subsidiary as an Approved Borrower does not constitute a commitment by such Lender to make Competitive Loans to such Approved Borrower).
Termination Letter
SECTION 2.02.
Loans and Borrowings.
(a) . Each Syndicated Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans of the same Type made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. Each Competitive Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.04. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; provided that the Commitments and Competitive Bids of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make Loans as required.
Obligations of Lenders
(b) . Subject to Section 2.12, (i) each Syndicated Borrowing shall be constituted entirely of ABR Loans or of Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars as the respective Borrower may request in accordance herewith, and (ii) each Competitive Borrowing shall be constituted entirely of Eurocurrency Loans or Fixed Rate Loans denominated in a single Currency as the respective Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each ABR Loan shall be denominated in Dollars. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurocurrency Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; provided that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrowers to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Type of Loans
(c) At the commencement of the Interest Period for any Syndicated Borrowing, such Syndicated Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of $15,000,000 or a larger multiple of $1,000,000; that an ABR Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments. Each Competitive Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount equal to $15,000,000 or a larger multiple of $1,000,000 (or, in either case, the Dollar Equivalent thereof). Borrowings of more than one Class, Currency and Type may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of fifteen Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowings outstanding.
Minimum Amounts; Limitation on Number of Borrowings.
provided
provided
(d) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no Borrower shall be entitled to request, or to elect to convert to or continue as a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested therefor would end after the Maturity Date.
Limitations on Lengths of Interest Periods
SECTION 2.03. . To request a Syndicated Borrowing, a Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request (a) by irrevocable written notice (via a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Company (on its own behalf or, as applicable, on behalf of an Approved Borrower), promptly followed by telephonic confirmation of such request) in the case of a Syndicated Eurocurrency
Requests for Syndicated Borrowings
 
Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Local Time, three (3) Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) by telephone in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request described above and signed by the Company (on its own behalf or, as applicable, on behalf of an Approved Borrower). Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrower and the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period therefor, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period" and permitted under Section 2.02(d); and
(v) the location and number of the account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.05.
If no election as to the Type of Syndicated Borrowing is specified, then the requested Syndicated Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing the requested Borrowing shall be made instead as an ABR Borrowing. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04.
Competitive Bid Procedure.
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, from time to time during the Availability Period a Borrower may request Competitive Bids and may (but shall not have any obligation to) accept Competitive Bids and borrow Competitive Loans denominated in Dollars or in any Foreign Currency; that the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans at any time shall not exceed the total Commitments. To request Competitive Bids, a Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, four Business Days (or, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency, 11:00 a.m., London time, five Business Days) before the date of the proposed Borrowing and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time (or, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency, 10:00 a.m., London time) two Business Days, before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that the Borrowers may in the aggregate submit up to (but not more than) three Competitive Bid Requests on the same day, and a Competitive Bid Request shall not be made within five Business Days after the date of any previous Competitive Bid Request, unless any and all such previous Competitive Bid Requests shall have been withdrawn or all Competitive Bids received in response thereto rejected. Each such telephonic Competitive Bid Request shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Competitive Bid Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Company (on behalf of itself or, as applicable, an Approved Borrower). Each such telephonic and written Competitive Bid Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Requests for Bids by the Borrowers
provided
plus
provided
(i) the Borrower and the aggregate amount and Currency of the requested Borrowing;
 
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be a Eurocurrency Borrowing or a Fixed Rate Borrowing;
(iv) the Interest Period for such Borrowing, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period";
(v) the maturity dates for such Borrowing (being limited to no more than three alternative maturity dates for such Borrowing); and
(vi) the location and number of the account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.05.
Promptly following receipt of a Competitive Bid Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of the details thereof by telecopy, inviting the Lenders to submit Competitive Bids.
(b) . Each Lender may (but shall not have any obligation to) make one or more Competitive Bids in response to a Competitive Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid by a Lender must be in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and must be received by the Administrative Agent by telecopy, in the case of a Competitive Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days (or, in the case of a Competitive Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency, 9:30 a.m., London time, four Business Days) before the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time (or, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency, 9:30 a.m., London time), on the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing. Competitive Bids that do not conform substantially to the form approved by the Administrative Agent may be rejected by the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall notify the applicable Lender of such rejection as promptly as practicable. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (i) the principal amount (which shall be $15,000,000 or a larger multiple of $1,000,000 (or, in either case, the Dollar Equivalent thereof) and which may equal the entire principal amount of the Competitive Borrowing requested by the respective Borrower) of the Competitive Loan or Loans that such Lender is willing to make, (ii) the Competitive Bid Rate or Competitive Bid Rates at which such Lender is prepared to make such Loan or Loans (expressed as a percentage rate per annum in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal places) and (iii) the Interest Period for each such Loan and the last day thereof.
Making of Bids by Lenders
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the respective Borrower by telecopy of the Competitive Bid Rate and the principal amount specified in each Competitive Bid and the identity of the Lender that shall have made such Competitive Bid.
Notification of Bids by Administrative Agent
(d) . Subject only to the provisions of this paragraph, a Borrower may accept or reject any Competitive Bid. Such Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone, confirmed by telecopy in a form approved by the Administrative Agent, whether and to what extent such Borrower has decided to accept or reject each Competitive Bid, in the case of a Competitive Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days (or, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency, 2:00
Acceptance of Bids by the Borrowers
 
p.m., London time, four Business Days) before the date of the proposed Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time (or, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency, 10:30 a.m., London time), on the proposed date of the Competitive Borrowing; , that (i) the failure of such Borrower to give such notice shall be deemed to be a rejection of each Competitive Bid, (ii) such Borrower shall not accept a Competitive Bid made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate if such Borrower rejects a Competitive Bid made at a lower Competitive Bid Rate, (iii) the aggregate amount of the Competitive Bids accepted by such Borrower shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the requested Competitive Borrowing specified in the related Competitive Bid Request, (iv) to the extent necessary to comply with clause (iii) of this proviso, such Borrower may accept Competitive Bids at the same Competitive Bid Rate in part, which acceptance, in the case of multiple Competitive Bids at such Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made pro rata in accordance with the amount of each such Competitive Bid, and (v) except pursuant to clause (iv) of this proviso, no Competitive Bid shall be accepted for a Competitive Loan unless such Competitive Loan is in a principal amount of $15,000,000 or a larger multiple of $1,000,000 (or, in either case, the U.S. Dollar Equivalent thereof); that if a Competitive Loan must be in an amount less than $15,000,000 because of the provisions of clause (iv) of the first proviso of this paragraph, such Competitive Loan may be in an amount of $1,000,000 or any multiple thereof, and in calculating the pro rata allocation of acceptances of portions of multiple Competitive Bids at a particular Competitive Bid Rate pursuant to such clause (iv) the amounts shall be rounded to multiples of $1,000,000 in a manner determined by the Company. A notice given by any Borrower pursuant to this paragraph shall be irrevocable.
provided
provided
further
(e) . The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each bidding Lender by telecopy whether or not its Competitive Bid has been accepted (and, if so, the amount and Competitive Bid Rate so accepted), and each successful bidder will thereupon become bound, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, to make the Competitive Loan in respect of which its Competitive Bid has been accepted.
Notification of Acceptances by the Administrative Agent
(f) . If the Administrative Agent shall elect to submit a Competitive Bid in its capacity as a Lender, it shall submit such Competitive Bid directly to the respective Borrower at least one quarter of an hour earlier than the time by which the other Lenders are required to submit their Competitive Bids to the Administrative Agent pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.
Bids by the Administrative Agent
(g) . The extension of any Competitive Loan by any Lender shall not constitute utilization of such Lender's Commitment hereunder, and such Lender shall remain obligated (as provided in Section 2.17(c)) to make Loans in an amount equal to its pro rata share of the aggregate Commitments under this Agreement, that in no event shall the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans at any time exceed the total Commitments.
Continuing Obligations of Lenders
provided
plus
SECTION 2.05.
Funding of Borrowings.
(a) . Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, Local Time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the respective Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City and designated by such Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request or Competitive Bid Request.
Funding by Lenders
 
(b) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the respective Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and such Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or (ii) in the case of such Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
Presumption by the Administrative Agent
SECTION 2.06. .
Interest Elections
(a) . Each Syndicated Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing, shall have the Interest Period specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, a Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a Borrowing of a different Type or to continue such Borrowing as a Borrowing of the same Type and, in the case of a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing, may elect the Interest Period therefor, all as provided in this Section. A Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans constituting such Borrowing, and the Loans constituting each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Competitive Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
Elections by Borrowers for Syndicated Borrowings
(b) . To make an election pursuant to this Section, a Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Company were requesting a Syndicated Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Company (on behalf of itself or, as applicable, on behalf of an Approved Borrower).
Notice of Elections
(c) . Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Information in Interest Election Requests
(i) the Borrower and the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) of this paragraph shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; and
 
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period therefor after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period" and permitted under Section 2.02(d).
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the respective Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) . Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
Notice by the Administrative Agent to Lenders
(e) . If a Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period therefor, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrowers, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (A) no outstanding Syndicated Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing and (B) unless repaid, each Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period therefor.
Failure to Elect; Events of Default
SECTION 2.07.
Changes of Commitments.
(a) . Unless previously terminated the aggregate amount of the Commitments shall terminate on the Commitment Termination Date.
Scheduled Termination
(b) . The Company may at any time terminate or from time to time reduce the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is $15,000,000 or a larger multiple of $1,000,000 and (ii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Syndicated Loans in accordance with Section 2.09, the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans would exceed the total Commitments.
Voluntary Termination or Reduction
provided
(c) . The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any such notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Company pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Company may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Company (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied.
Notice of Voluntary Termination or Reduction
provided
(d) . Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
Effect of Termination or Reduction
 
SECTION 2.08.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
(a) . Each Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay the Loans as follows:
Repayment
(i) to the Administrative Agent for account of the Lenders the outstanding principal amount of the Syndicated Loans made to such Borrower on the Maturity Date, and
(ii) to the Administrative Agent for account of the respective Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Loan of such Lender made to such Borrower on the last day of the Interest Period therefor.
(b) . Prior to any repayment or prepayment of any Borrowings hereunder, the respective Borrower shall select the Borrowing or Borrowings to be paid and shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such selection not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the scheduled date of such repayment; that each repayment of Borrowings shall be applied to repay any outstanding ABR Borrowings before any other Borrowings. If a Borrower fails to make a timely selection of the Borrowing or Borrowings to be repaid or prepaid, such payment shall be applied, first, to pay any outstanding ABR Borrowings of such Borrower and, second, to other Borrowings of such Borrower in the order of the remaining duration of their respective Interest Periods (the Borrowing with the shortest remaining Interest Period to be repaid first), and for these purposes, Competitive Loans shall be deemed to be in the same Class as Syndicated Loans. Each payment of a Syndicated Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in such Borrowing.
Manner of Payment
provided
(c) . Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrowers to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts and Currency of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
Maintenance of Loan Accounts by Lenders
(d) . The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount and Currency of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and each Interest Period therefor, (ii) the amount and Currency of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount and Currency of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
Maintenance of Loan Accounts by the Administrative Agent
(e) . The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (c) or (d) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of a Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Effect of Entries
prima
facie
provided
(f) . Any Lender may request that Loans made by it to a Borrower be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, such Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the registered payee named therein and its registered assigns).
Promissory Notes
 
SECTION 2.09.
Prepayment of Loans.
(a) . Each Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing made to it in whole or in part, subject to the requirements of this Section; that no Borrower shall have the right to prepay any Competitive Loan without the prior consent of the Lender thereof unless otherwise specified in the Borrower's request for a Competitive Bid.
Optional Prepayments
provided
(b) .
Mandatory Prepayments
(i) . On each Quarterly Date and promptly upon the receipt by the Administrative Agent of a Currency Valuation Notice (as defined below), the Administrative Agent shall determine the sum of the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure plus the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Competitive Loans. For the purpose of this determination, the outstanding principal amount of any Loan that is denominated in any Foreign Currency shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the amount in the Foreign Currency of such Loan, determined as of such Quarterly Date or, in the case of a Currency Valuation Notice received by the Administrative Agent prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on a Business Day, on such Business Day or, in the case of a Currency Valuation Notice otherwise received, on the first Business Day after such Currency Valuation Notice is received. Upon making such determination, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders and the Company thereof.
Determination of Amount Outstanding
(ii) . If, on the date of such determination such sum exceeds 105% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments as then in effect, the Borrowers shall, if requested by the Required Lenders (through the Administrative Agent), prepay the Syndicated Loans and Competitive Loans in such amounts as shall be necessary so that after giving effect thereto the sum of the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Competitive Loans does not exceed the Commitments.
Prepayment
plus
For purposes hereof, "" means a notice given by the Required Lenders to the Administrative Agent stating that such notice is a "Currency Valuation Notice" and requesting that the Administrative Agent determine the sum of the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Competitive Loans. The Administrative Agent shall not be required to make more than one valuation determination pursuant to Currency Valuation Notices within any rolling three month period. Any prepayment pursuant to this paragraph shall be applied, , to Syndicated Loans outstanding and , to Competitive Loans outstanding.
Currency Valuation Notice
plus
first
second
(c) . Each Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any optional prepayment to be made by it hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing or of a Competitive Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time (or, in the case of a Borrowing denominated in a Foreign Currency, 11:00 a.m., London time), two Business Days before the date of prepayment or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date, the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid and, in the case of a mandatory prepayment, a reasonably detailed calculation of the amount of such prepayment; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.07, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.07. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Syndicated Borrowing or Competitive Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the relevant Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02, except as necessary to apply fully the required amount of a mandatory prepayment. Each prepayment of a Syndicated Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.11 and shall be made in the manner specified in Section 2.08(b).
Notices, Etc
provided
 
SECTION 2.10. .
Fees
(a) . The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the date such Commitment terminates and the Commitment Termination Date; that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued facility fees shall be payable on each Quarterly Date and on the earlier of the date the Commitments terminate and the Commitment Termination Date, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that any facility fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Facility Fee
provided
provided
(b) . The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Agent Fees
(c) . All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in Dollars and immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of facility fees, to the Lenders entitled thereto. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
Payment of Fees
SECTION 2.11. .
Interest
(a) . The Loans constituting each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
ABR Loans
plus
(b) . The Loans constituting each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate for the Interest Period for such Borrowing the Applicable Rate or (ii) in the case of a Competitive Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Eurocurrency Rate for the Interest Period for such Borrowing (or , as applicable) the Margin applicable to such Loan.
Eurocurrency Loans
plus
plus
minus
(c) . Each Fixed Rate Loan shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Fixed Rate.
Fixed Rate Loans
(d) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by a Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration, by mandatory prepayment or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal, interest or premium (if any) on any Loan, 2% the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided above or (ii) in the case of any other overdue amount, 2% the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Default Interest
plus
plus
 
(e) . Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Syndicated Loans, upon the termination of the Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Loan prior to the Commitment Termination Date), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Dollars prior to the end of the Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Borrowing shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
Payment of Interest
provided
(f) . All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that (i) interest in respect of Eurocurrency Borrowings denominated in English Pounds Sterling shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days and (ii) interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the prime rate of the Administrative Agent shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year); interest shall in each case be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate or Eurocurrency Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Computation
SECTION 2.12. . If prior to the commencement of the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing (the Currency of such Borrowing herein called the ""):
Alternate Rate of Interest
Affected Currency
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate (in the case of a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing) or the Eurocurrency Rate (in the case of a Competitive Eurocurrency Borrowing) for the Affected Currency for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders (or, in the case of a Competitive Eurocurrency Borrowing, any Lender that is required to make such Loan) that the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate (in the case of a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing) or the Eurocurrency Rate (in the case of a Competitive Eurocurrency Borrowing) for the Affected Currency for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrowers and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Syndicated Borrowing to, or the continuation of any Syndicated Borrowing as, a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in the Affected Currency shall be ineffective and such Syndicated Borrowing (unless prepaid) shall be continued as, or converted to, an ABR Borrowing, (ii) any Borrowing Request that requests a Syndicated Eurocurrency Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing, and (iii) any request by a Borrower for a Competitive Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in the Affected Currency shall be ineffective; that (A) if the circumstances giving rise to such notice do not affect all the Lenders, then requests by a Borrower for Competitive Eurocurrency Borrowings denominated in the Affected Currency may be made to Lenders that are not affected thereby, and (b) the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any determination of the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate or the Eurocurrency Rate (as the case may be) for the Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing if the applicable Eurocurrency Rate is available on the Screen as contemplated by the first sentence of the definition of "Eurocurrency Rate".
provided
 
SECTION 2.13. .
Increased Costs
(a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate);
(ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition (other than Indemnified Taxes or Excluded Taxes) affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Loans or Fixed Rate Loans made by such Lender; or
(iii) subject the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payments hereunder to any Taxes on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes, (B) Excluded Taxes and (C) Other Taxes);
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Person of making or maintaining any Loan to any Borrower (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Person hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the respective Borrower will pay to such Person, in Dollars, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Person for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) . If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Company will pay to such Lender, in Dollars, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
(c) . A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts, in Dollars, necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, and setting forth in reasonable detail calculations of such amount or amounts, shall be delivered to the Company and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The respective Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates from Lenders
(d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that no Borrower shall be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
Delay in Requests
provided
provided
further
 
(e) . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, a Lender shall not be entitled to compensation pursuant to this Section in respect of any Competitive Loan if the Change in Law that would otherwise entitle it to such compensation shall have been publicly announced prior to submission of the Competitive Bid pursuant to which such Loan was made.
Competitive Loans
SECTION 2.14. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan or Fixed Rate Loan of any Borrower other than on the last day of an Interest Period therefor (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Syndicated Eurocurrency Loan of any Borrower other than on the last day of an Interest Period therefor, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Syndicated Loan of any Borrower on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice is permitted to be revocable under Section 2.09(c) and is revoked in accordance herewith), (d) the failure by any Borrower to borrow any Competitive Loan after accepting the Competitive Bid to make such Loan or (e) the assignment of any Syndicated Eurocurrency Loan or Fixed Rate Loan of any Borrower other than on the last day of an Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, such Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event.
Break Funding Payments
In the case of a Eurocurrency Loan, the loss to any Lender attributable to any such event shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that such Lender would pay for a deposit equal to the principal amount of such Loan denominated in the Currency of such Loan for the period from the date of such payment, conversion, failure or assignment to the last day of the then current Interest Period for such Loan (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the duration of the Interest Period that would have resulted from such borrowing, conversion or continuation) if the interest rate payable on such deposit were equal to the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate for such Currency (in the case of a Syndicated Eurocurrency Loan) or the Eurocurrency Rate for such Currency (in the case of a Competitive Eurocurrency Loan) for such Interest Period, (ii) the amount of interest that such Lender would earn on such principal amount for such period if such Lender were to invest such principal amount for such period at the interest rate that would be bid by such Lender (or an affiliate of such Lender) for deposits denominated in such Currency from other banks in the eurocurrency market at the commencement of such period. No Borrower shall be responsible for losses described in this Section 2.14 arising more than six (6) months prior to its receipt of notice of such determination by the respective Lender requesting compensation for such loss. Such notice, to be effective, shall be accompanied by a calculation of such losses in reasonable detail. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Company and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The respective Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
over
SECTION 2.15. .
U.S. Taxes
(a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of any Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if any Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
 
(b) . In addition, each Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrowers
(c) . The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Company by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Company
(d) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by any Borrower to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
(e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the United States of America, or any treaty to which the United States of America is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement by any Borrower shall deliver to the Company (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Company, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments by such Borrower to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
Foreign Lenders
(f) Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent for any Taxes (but, in the case of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, only to the extent that the Borrowers have not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Borrowers to do so) attributable to such Lender that are paid or payable by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Agreement and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The indemnity under this Section 2.15(f) shall be paid within 10 days after the Administrative Agent delivers to the applicable Lender a certificate stating the amount of Taxes so paid or payable by the Administrative Agent. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so paid or payable absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Lenders.
SECTION 2.16. .
Foreign Taxes
(a) . All payments on account of the principal of and interest on the Loans, fees and all other amounts payable hereunder by any Approved Borrower organized under a Foreign Jurisdiction to or for the account of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, including amounts payable under paragraph (c) of this Section, shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or liability for Foreign Taxes. Such Approved Borrower will pay all Foreign Taxes applicable to it, without charge to or offset against any amount due to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, prior to the date on which penalties attach thereto, except for any such Foreign Taxes (other than Foreign Taxes imposed on or in respect of any amount payable by such Approved Borrower hereunder) the payment of which is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and against which adequate reserves are being maintained, so long as no claim for such Foreign Taxes is made on the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Payments to be Made Free and Clear of Foreign Taxes
 
(b) . Each Approved Borrower organized under a Foreign Jurisdiction shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender against, and reimburse the Administrative Agent and each Lender on demand for, any Foreign Taxes applicable to it and any loss, liability, claim or expense, including interest, penalties and legal fees, that the Administrative Agent or such Lender may incur at any time arising out of or in connection with any failure of such Approved Borrower to make any payment of Foreign Taxes when due.
Indemnification by Approved Borrowers
(c) . In the event that any Approved Borrower organized under a Foreign Jurisdiction is required by applicable law, decree or regulation to deduct or withhold Foreign Taxes from any amounts payable on, under or in respect of this Agreement or the Loans made to it, such Approved Borrower shall (to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law) promptly pay the Person entitled to such amount such additional amounts as may be required, after the deduction or withholding of Foreign Taxes, to enable such Person to receive from such Approved Borrower on the due date thereof, an amount equal to the full amount stated to be payable to such Person under this Agreement. Each Lender shall provide to such Approved Borrower such forms or certificates as such Approved Borrower may reasonably request to establish such Lender's entitlement to an exemption from or reduction of Foreign Taxes, but no Lender shall be required to provide any form or certificate if it determines in its discretion that the provision of such form or certificate could adversely affect it or it is not legally entitled to provide such form or certificate.
Gross-Up for Foreign Taxes
(d) . Each Approved Borrower organized under a Foreign Jurisdiction shall furnish to the Administrative Agent, upon the request of any Lender (through the Administrative Agent), together with sufficient certified copies for distribution to each Lender requesting the same (identifying the Lenders that have so requested), original official tax receipts (or certified copies thereof) in respect of each payment of Foreign Taxes required under this Section made by such Approved Borrower or such other information, documents and receipts that the Administrative Agent or such Lender may reasonably require to establish to its satisfaction that full and timely payment has been made of all Foreign Taxes required to be paid under this Section within 30 days after the date such payment is made.
Evidence of Payment of Foreign Taxes
SECTION 2.17. .
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
(a) . Each Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or under Section 2.13, 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16, or otherwise) prior to 12:00 noon, Local Time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off, counterclaim or other deduction. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's Account, except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.13, 2.14, 2.15, 2.16, 2.18(b) and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder (including facility fees, payments required under Section 2.13, and payments required under Section 2.14 relating to any Loan denominated in Dollars, but not including principal of, and interest on, any Loan denominated in any Foreign Currency or payments relating to any such Loan required under Section 2.14, which are payable in such Foreign Currency) shall be made in Dollars. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by mandatory prepayment or otherwise), the unpaid portion of such Loan shall, if such Loan is not denominated in Dollars, automatically be
Payments by the Borrowers
 
redenominated in Dollars on the due date thereof (or, if such due date is a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor, on the last day of such Interest Period) in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent thereof on the date of such redenomination and such principal shall be payable on demand; and if any Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan that is not denominated in Dollars, such interest shall automatically be redenominated in Dollars on the due date therefor (or, if such due date is a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor, on the last day of such Interest Period) in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent thereof on the date of such redenomination and such interest shall be payable on demand.
(b) . If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, to pay interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, to pay principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
Application of Insufficient Payments
(c) . Except to the extent otherwise provided herein: (i) each Syndicated Borrowing shall be made from the Lenders, each payment of a facility fee under Section 2.10 shall be made for account of the Lenders, and each termination or reduction of the amount of the Commitments under Section 2.07 shall be applied to the respective Commitments of the Lenders, pro rata according to the amounts of their respective Commitments (or, in the case of payment of facility fees, pro rata according to the amounts of their respective Revolving Credit Exposures); (ii) each Syndicated Borrowing shall be allocated pro rata among the Lenders according to the amounts of their respective Commitments (in the case of the making of Syndicated Loans) or their respective Loans (in the case of conversions and continuations of Loans); (iii) each payment or prepayment of principal of Syndicated Loans by any Borrower shall be made for account of the Lenders pro rata in accordance with the respective unpaid principal amounts of the Syndicated Loans of such Borrower held by them; and (iv) each payment of interest on Syndicated Loans by any Borrower shall be made for account of the Lenders pro rata in accordance with the amounts of interest on such Loans of such Borrower then due and payable to the respective Lenders.
Pro Rata Treatment
(d) . If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Syndicated Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Syndicated Loans and accrued interest thereon then due than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Syndicated Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Syndicated Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or Participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments by Lenders
provided
 
(e) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for account of the Lenders hereunder that the respective Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Effective Rate.
Presumptions of Payment
(f) . If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(b) or 2.17(e), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
Certain Deductions by the Administrative Agent
SECTION 2.18. .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a) . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.13, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.13, 2.15 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. Each Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
(b) . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.13 or 2.14, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.16, or if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than any outstanding Competitive Loans held by it) to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (w) the Company shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (x) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans (other than Competitive Loans), accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder (including any amounts payable under Section 2.14 as a result of such assignment), from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrowers (in the case of all other amounts), (y) if the Lender being replaced does not execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent a duly completed Assignment and Assumption and/or any other documentation necessary to reflect such replacement by the later of (aa) the date on which the assignee Lender executed and delivered such Assignment and Assumption and/or such other documentation and (bb) the time such Lender receives payment under clause (x) above, then the Lender being replaced shall be deemed to have executed and delivered such Assignment and Assumption and/or such other documentation as of such date and the Company shall be entitled (but not obligated) to execute and deliver such Assignment and Assumption and/or such other documentation on behalf of such Lender (provided that the Company shall make no
Replacement of Lenders
provided
 
representation or warranty on behalf of such Lender in such Assignment and Assumption and/or such other documentation) and (z) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.13 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.16, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
SECTION 2.19. . The Company may from time to time elect to increase the Commitments in minimum increments of $100,000,000 so long as, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of such increases does not exceed $500,000,000. The Company may arrange for any such increase to be provided by one or more Lenders (each Lender so agreeing to an increase in its Commitment, an ""), or by one or more new banks, financial institutions or other entities (each such new bank, financial institution or other entity, an ""), to increase their existing Commitments or extend Commitments, as the case may be; that (i) each Augmenting Lender, shall be subject to the approval of the Company and the Administrative Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld) and (ii) (x) in the case of an Increasing Lender, the Company and such Increasing Lender execute an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto (with such changes as are reasonably agreed to by the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Increasing Lender), and (y) in the case of an Augmenting Lender, the Company and such Augmenting Lender execute an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto (with such changes as are reasonably agreed to by the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Augmenting Lender). No consent of any Lender (other than the Lenders participating in the increase) shall be required for any increase in Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.19. Increases and new Commitments created pursuant to this Section 2.19 shall become effective on the date agreed by the Company, the Administrative Agent and the relevant Increasing Lenders or Augmenting Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no increase in the Commitments (or in the Commitment of any Lender) shall become effective under this paragraph unless, (i) on the proposed date of the effectiveness of such increase, (A) the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.03 shall be satisfied or waived by the Required Lenders and (B) the Company shall be in compliance (on a pro forma basis) with the covenants contained in Sections 6.08 and 6.09 and (ii) the Administrative Agent shall have received documents and opinions of counsel consistent with those delivered on the Effective Date as to the corporate power and authority of the Borrowers to borrow hereunder after giving effect to such increase. On the effective date of any increase in the Commitments, (i) each Augmenting Lender, if any, shall become a Lender, (ii) each relevant Increasing Lender and Augmenting Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent such amounts in immediately available funds as the Administrative Agent shall determine, for the benefit of the other Lenders, as being required in order to cause, after giving effect to such increase and the use of such amounts to make payments to such other Lenders, each Lender's portion of the outstanding Syndicated Loans of all the Lenders to equal its Applicable Percentage of such outstanding Syndicated Loans, and (iii) the Borrowers shall be deemed to have repaid and reborrowed all outstanding Syndicated Loans as of the date of any increase in the Commitments (with such reborrowing to consist of the Types of Syndicated Loans, with related Interest Periods if applicable, specified in a notice delivered by the applicable Borrower, or the Company on behalf of the applicable Borrower, in accordance with the requirements of Section 2.03). The deemed payments made pursuant to clause (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence shall be accompanied by payment of all accrued interest on the amount prepaid and, in respect of each Eurocurrency Loan, shall be subject to indemnification by the Borrowers pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 if the deemed payment occurs other than on the last day of the related Interest Periods.
Expansion Option
Increasing Lender
Augmenting Lender
provided
 
SECTION 2.20. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement (including Sections 2.17(c) or 2.17(d)) to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
Defaulting Lenders
(a) fees shall cease to accrue on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.10(a);
(b) the Commitment and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included, and such Defaulting Lender shall not be deemed to be a Lender, in determining whether all Lenders or the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment or waiver pursuant to Section 9.02); that (i) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender which affects such Defaulting Lender differently in an adverse manner than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender and (ii) any amendment or modification that increases, or extends the maturity of, such Defaulting Lender's Commitment, or reduces the principal amount of, or rate of interest on, any Loans made by such Defaulting Lender, shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender; and
provided
(c) any amount payable to such Defaulting Lender hereunder (whether on account of principal, interest or otherwise and including any amount that would otherwise be payable to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.17 but excluding Section 2.18(b)) shall, in lieu of being distributed to such Defaulting Lender, be retained by the Administrative Agent in a segregated account and, subject to any applicable requirements of law, be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent in the following order of priority: (a) first, to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder; (b) second, to the funding of any Loan in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent; (c) third, if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Company, held in such account as cash collateral for future funding obligations of the Defaulting Lender in respect of any Loans required to be funded by such Lender under this Agreement; (d) fourth, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrowers as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrowers against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and (e) fifth, to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction, provided that, with respect to this clause (e), if such payment is (x) a prepayment of the principal amount of any Loans which such Defaulting Lender has funded and (y) made at a time when the conditions set forth in Section 5.03 are satisfied, such payment shall be applied solely to prepay the Applicable Percentage of the outstanding principal amount of Loans of each non-Defaulting Lender prior to being applied to the prepayment of the Loans of such Defaulting Lender.
In the event that the Administrative Agent and the Company agree in writing in their discretion that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Loans of the other Lenders and/or make such other adjustments as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender and any amounts held in the segregated account referenced above shall be distributed to such Lender, provided that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder in the status of Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from such Lender having been a Defaulting Lender.
 
. Each of the Company and the Approved Borrowers, as applicable, represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
Representations and Warranties
Part A. .
Representations and Warranties of the Company
SECTION 3.01. . Each of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries: (a) is a corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation (or, in the case of a Material Subsidiary that is not a corporation, is a partnership or other entity duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization); (b) has all requisite legal power, and has all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals, necessary to own its assets and carry on its business as now being or as proposed to be conducted; and (c) is qualified to do business in all jurisdictions in which the nature of the business conducted by it makes such qualification necessary and where failure so to qualify would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Corporate Existence
SECTION 3.02. . The Company has heretofore furnished to the Lenders (i) the consolidated balance sheets of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2008, December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2010 and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and changes in common shareholders' equity of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, with the opinion thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP and (ii) the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and related statements of operations, cash flows and stockholders' equity of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011 (with respect to which the auditors have performed an SAS 100 review). Such financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial condition of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at said dates and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods presented, all in accordance with GAAP (except, in the case of clause (ii), for normal year-end audit adjustments and/or absence of full footnote disclosures). Neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries had on said dates any material contingent liabilities, liabilities for taxes, unusual forward or long-term commitments or unrealized or anticipated losses from any unfavorable commitments, except as referred to or reflected or provided for in said balance sheets as at said dates. Since December 31, 2010, there has been no event or condition that could result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Financial Condition
SECTION 3.03. . The legal or arbitral proceedings, and proceedings by or before any Governmental Authority, now pending or (to the knowledge of the Company) threatened against the Company and/or any of its Material Subsidiaries will not, in the opinion of the General Counsel of the Company, result in imposition of liability or assessment against (including seizure of) property that would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
SECTION 3.04. . None of the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated and compliance with the terms and provisions hereof will conflict with or result in a breach of, or require any consent under, the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or any applicable law or regulation, or any order, writ, injunction or decree of any Governmental Authority, or any material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of them is subject, or constitute a default under any such agreement or instrument, other than immaterial conflicts under contractual obligations.
No Breach
SECTION 3.05. . The Obligors have all necessary corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform their obligations under this Agreement; the execution, delivery and performance by the Obligors of this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on their part; and this Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by the Obligors and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Obligors, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by equitable principles or by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally.
Corporate Action of the Obligors
 
SECTION 3.06. . No authorizations, approvals or consents of, and no filings or registrations with, any Governmental Authority are necessary for the execution, delivery or performance by the Obligors of this Agreement or for the validity or enforceability thereof.
Approvals
SECTION 3.07. . Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental or ultimate, of buying or carrying Margin Stock and no part of the proceeds of any Loan hereunder will be used to buy or carry, or to extend credit to others to buy or carry, any Margin Stock.
Use of Loans
SECTION 3.08. . The Company and the ERISA Affiliates have fulfilled their respective obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan and are in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code, and have not incurred any liability to the PBGC or any Plan or Multiemployer Plan (other than to make contributions in the ordinary course of business).
ERISA
SECTION 3.09. . United States Federal income tax returns of the Company have been examined and closed through the fiscal year of the Company ended December 31, 2000. The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all United States Federal income tax returns and all other material tax returns required to be filed by them and have paid all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries except for those being contested in good faith and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries in respect of taxes and other governmental charges are, in the opinion of the Company, adequate. If the Company is a member of an affiliated group of corporations filing consolidated returns for United States Federal income tax purposes, it is the "common parent" of such group.
Taxes
SECTION 3.10. . None of the Obligors is an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
SECTION 3.11. . Schedule II is a complete and correct list, as of the date of this Agreement, of each credit agreement, loan agreement, indenture, purchase agreement, guarantee or other arrangement providing for or otherwise relating to any Indebtedness or any extension of credit (or commitment for any extension of credit) to, or guarantee by, the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries the aggregate principal or face amount of which equals or exceeds (or may equal or exceed) $150,000,000 and the aggregate principal or face amount outstanding or which may become outstanding under each such arrangement is correctly described in Schedule II.
Credit Agreements
SECTION 3.12. .
Hazardous Materials and Environmental Matters
(a) Except as would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect:
(i) The Company and each of its Material Subsidiaries have obtained all permits, licenses and other authorizations ("") required under all applicable Environmental Laws, for their respective operations, businesses and assets, and such Permits are in full force and effect and the Company and each of its Material Subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Permits;
Permits
 
(ii) the Company and each of its Material Subsidiaries, and their respective operations and assets, are in compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws;
(iii) neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries has received any written notice of violation, alleged violation, non-compliance, liability or potential liability under any Environmental Laws, nor does the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries have knowledge that any such notice will be received or is being threatened;
(iv) no judicial proceeding or governmental or administrative action is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, threatened, under any Environmental Law to which the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries is or will be named as a party, nor are any of them subject to any consent decree, or consent order or other orders or judgments under any Environmental Law;
(v) there has been no Release or threat of Release of Hazardous Materials at, on, under or from any properties or facilities currently, or to the knowledge of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, formerly, owned or operated by any of them which would reasonably be expected to result in a violation of or liability under any Environmental Laws on the part of any of them; and
(vi) neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries has contractually assumed or undertaken responsibility for any liability or obligation of any Person arising under or relating to any Environmental Laws.
(b) . In the ordinary course of its business, the Company conducts an ongoing review of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated liabilities and costs (including any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently or previously owned, any capital or operating expenditures required to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by law or as a condition of any license, permit or contract, any related constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat, any costs or liabilities in connection with off-site disposal of wastes or hazardous substances, and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Company has reasonably concluded that, except as expressly disclosed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2011, such associated liabilities and costs, including the costs of compliance with Environmental Laws, are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance Review
SECTION 3.13. . The Company has heretofore furnished to each of the Lenders a true copy of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 (the ""), as filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as disclosed in writing to the Lenders, the annual, quarterly and other periodic reports most recently delivered to the Lenders pursuant to this Section or Section 3.02 do not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Full Disclosure
Annual Report
 
SECTION 3.14. .
Anti-Terrorism Laws
(a) Neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries (i) has violated or is in violation of Anti-Terrorism Laws or (ii) has engaged or engages in any transaction, investment, undertaking or activity that conceals the identity, source or destination of the proceeds from any category of offenses designated in the "Forty Recommendations" and "Nine Special Recommendations" published by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering.
(b) Neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries is an Embargoed Person.
(c) Neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries (i) conducts any business or engages in making or receiving any contribution of funds, goods or services to or for the benefit of any Embargoed Person, (ii) deals in, or otherwise engages in any transaction related to, any property or interests in property blocked pursuant to any Anti-Terrorism Law or (iii) engages in or conspires to engage in any transaction that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in any Anti-Terrorism Law.
Part B. . Each Approved Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
Representations and Warranties of the Approved Borrowers
SECTION 3.15. . It (a) is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation; (b) has all requisite power, and has all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals necessary to own its assets and carry on its business as now being or as proposed to be conducted; and (c) is qualified to do business in all jurisdictions in which the nature of the business conducted by it makes such qualification necessary and where failure so to qualify would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence of Approved Borrowers
SECTION 3.16. . None of the execution and delivery of its Designation Letter, the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated and compliance with the terms and provisions hereof will conflict with or result in a breach of, or require any consent under, the charter or by-laws of such Approved Borrower, or any applicable law or regulation, or any order, writ, injunction or decree of any Governmental Authority, or any agreement or instrument to which such Approved Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of them is subject, or constitute a default under any such agreement or instrument.
No Breach
SECTION 3.17. . Such Approved Borrower has all necessary power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under its Designation Letter and to perform its obligations hereunder; the execution and delivery by such Approved Borrower of its Designation Letter and the performance by such Approved Borrower hereunder and thereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary action on its part; and its Designation Letter when executed and delivered by such Approved Borrower, will constitute, the legal, valid and binding obligation of such Approved Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
Corporate Action
SECTION 3.18. . No authorizations, approvals or consents of, and no filings or registrations with, any Governmental Authority are necessary for the execution, delivery or performance by such Approved Borrower of its Designation Letter or for the validity or enforceability thereof.
Approvals
 
SECTION 3.19. . Except as disclosed to the Lenders in writing prior to the delivery of such Approved Borrower's Designation Letter, there is no income, stamp or other tax of any country, or of any taxing authority thereof or therein, imposed by or in the nature of withholding or otherwise, which is imposed on any payment to be made by such Approved Borrower pursuant hereto, or is imposed on or by virtue of the execution, delivery or enforcement of its Designation Letter.
Taxes on Payments of Approved Borrowers
SECTION 4.01. . The Company guarantees to each Lender and the Administrative Agent and their respective successors and assigns the prompt payment in full when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the principal of and interest (including any interest, fees, costs or charges that would accrue but for the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code after any bankruptcy or insolvency petition under the Bankruptcy Code, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding) on the Loans made by the Lenders to, and the promissory notes held by the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.08(f) of, any Approved Borrower and all other monetary obligations, including fees, costs, expenses and indemnities, whether primary, secondary, direct, contingent, fixed or otherwise (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding) of any Approved Borrower and all other amounts from time to time owing to the Lenders or the Administrative Agent by any Approved Borrower under this Agreement (including pursuant to its Designation Letter), in each case strictly in accordance with the terms thereof (such obligations being herein collectively called the ""). The Company hereby further agrees that if any Approved Borrower shall fail to pay in full when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) any of the Guaranteed Obligations, the Company will promptly pay the same, without any demand or notice whatsoever, and that in the case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due (whether at extended maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) in accordance with the terms of such extension or renewal. This is a guarantee of payment and not of collection.
Guarantee
Guaranteed Obligations
SECTION 4.02. . The obligations of the Company under Section 4.01 are absolute and unconditional irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity, legality or enforceability of the obligations of any Approved Borrower under this Agreement or any other agreement or instrument referred to herein or therein (including any Designation Letter), or any substitution, release or exchange of any other guarantee of or security for any of the Guaranteed Obligations, and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any other circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor (including any immunity, sovereign or otherwise, to which any Approved Borrower may be entitled), it being the intent of this Section that the obligations of the Company hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is agreed that the occurrence of any one or more of the following shall not affect the liability of the Company hereunder:
Obligations Unconditional
(i) at any time or from time to time, without notice to the Company, the time for any performance of or compliance with any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance shall be waived;
(ii) any of the acts mentioned in any of the provisions of this Agreement or any other agreement or instrument referred to herein or therein shall be amended, done or omitted;
 
(iii) the unenforceability, illegality, invalidity or non-provability of any of the acts mentioned in any of the provisions of this Agreement or any other agreement or instrument referred to herein or therein;
(iv) the taking, variation, compromise, exchange, renewal or release of, or refusal or neglect to perfect, take up or enforce, any rights against, or security over assets of, any Person;
(v) any non-presentation or non-observance of any formality or other requirement in respect of any instrument or any failure to realize the full value of any Guaranteed Obligations;
(vi) any incapacity or lack of power, authority or legal personality of or dissolution or change in the members or status of any Person; or
(vii) the maturity of any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be accelerated, or any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be modified, supplemented, or amended in any respect, or any right under this Agreement or any other agreement or instrument referred to herein or therein shall be waived or any other guarantee of any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any security therefor shall be released or exchanged in whole or in part or otherwise dealt with.
The Company hereby expressly waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, protest and all notices whatsoever, and any requirement that the Administrative Agent or any Lender exhaust any right, power or remedy or proceed against any Approved Borrower under this Agreement or any other agreement or instrument referred to herein or therein, or against any other Person under any other guarantee of, or security for, any of the Guaranteed Obligations.
SECTION 4.03. . The obligations of the Company under this Article IV shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Approved Borrower in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise and the Company agrees that it will indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including fees of counsel) incurred by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in connection with such rescission or restoration.
Reinstatement
SECTION 4.04. . The Company hereby waives all rights of subrogation or contribution, whether arising by operation of law (including any such right arising under the Bankruptcy Code, as now or hereafter in effect) or otherwise, by reason of any payment by it pursuant to the provisions of this Article IV and further agrees that for the benefit of each of its creditors (including each Lender and the Administrative Agent) that any such payment by it of the Guaranteed Obligations of any Approved Borrower shall constitute a contribution of capital by the Company to such Approved Borrower or, if evidenced by an instrument in form and substance (and containing terms of subordination) satisfactory to the Required Lenders, indebtedness subordinated in right of payment to the principal of and interest (including post-petition interest) on the Loans owing by such Approved Borrower.
Subrogation
SECTION 4.05. . The Company agrees that, as between the Company and the Lenders, the obligations of any Approved Borrower under this Agreement may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in Article VII (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in Article VII) for purposes of Section 4.01 notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or such obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against any Approved Borrower and that, in the event of such declaration (or such obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), such obligations (whether or not due and payable by such Approved Borrower) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Company for purposes of said Section 4.01.
Remedies
 
SECTION 4.06. . The guarantee in this Article IV is a continuing guarantee, and shall apply to all Guaranteed Obligations whenever arising.
Continuing Guarantee
SECTION 5.01. . The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which the Administrative Agent shall have received each of the following documents, each of which shall be satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (and to the extent specified below, to each Lender) in form and substance (or such condition shall have been waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Effective Date
(a) . From each initial Obligor, a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such initial Obligor.
Executed Counterparts
(b) . A favorable written opinion of (i) Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 and (ii) Marla F. Adair, Chief Counsel - Global Corporate Governance, Treasury & Tax, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-2 (and the Company hereby instructs such counsel to deliver such opinions to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent).
Opinion of Counsel to the Company
(c) . Such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent, any Lead Arranger or their counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Obligors, the authorization of the borrowings hereunder by the Company, and the Guarantee of the Guaranteed Obligations by the Company, each of which shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Lead Arrangers in form and substance.
Corporate Documents
(d) . A certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or another senior financial officer of the Company, in the form of Exhibit C.
Officer's Certificate
(e) . Evidence that the "Commitments" under and as defined in the 2009 Credit Agreement shall have been terminated and the principal of and interest on all Loans and all other amounts outstanding under the 2009 Credit Agreement shall have been paid in full.
Termination of 2009 Credit Agreement
(f) . The Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall have timely received the information required under Section 9.15.
Patriot Act
(g) . Such other documents as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.
Other Documents
The effectiveness of the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall also be subject to the conditions precedent that:
(i) . Since December 31, 2010, there has been no material adverse change in the consolidated financial condition, operations, business or prospects taken as a whole of the Company and its Subsidiaries from that set forth in the respective financial statements of the Company as at said date (and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to such effect from a senior financial officer of the Company).
No Material Adverse Change
 
(ii) . The Company shall have paid such fees as it shall have agreed to pay to any Lender or the Administrative Agent in connection herewith, including the reasonable fees and expenses of Sidley Austin LLP, special New York counsel to JPMCB, in connection with the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Loans hereunder (to the extent that statements for such fees and expenses have been delivered to the Company).
Fees
The Administrative Agent shall notify in writing the Company and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
SECTION 5.02. . The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder to any Approved Borrower shall not become effective until the date on which the Administrative Agent shall have received each of the following documents, each of which shall be satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (and to the extent specified below, to each Lender) in form and substance (or such condition shall have been waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Initial Loan to any Approved Borrower
(a) . A Designation Letter, duly executed by such Approved Borrower and the Company.
Designation Letter
(b) . A favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) of counsel for such Approved Borrower, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Opinion of Counsel to Approved Borrower
(c) . Such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of such Approved Borrower, the authorization of the borrowings hereunder by such Approved Borrower and of the guarantee of the obligations of the Approved Borrower hereunder by the Company, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Corporate Documents
(d) . The financial statements of such Approved Borrower required pursuant to the fourth paragraph of such Approved Borrower's Designation Letter.
Financial Statements
(e) . Such other documents as the Administrative Agent or any Applicable Lender may reasonably request.
Other Documents
SECTION 5.03. . The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event
(a) the representations and warranties of the Company in Part A of Article III (other than the last sentence of Section 3.02) shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing;
(b) in the case of any Borrowing by an Approved Borrower, the representations and warranties of such Approved Borrower in Part B of Article III shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing; and
(c) at the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
 
Each Borrowing shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Company and the respective Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in the preceding sentence.
The Company agrees that, so long as any of the Commitments are in effect and until payment in full of all Loans hereunder, all accrued interest thereon and all other amounts due and payable by any Obligor hereunder:
Part A. .
Affirmative Covenants
SECTION 6.01. . The Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders (and upon receipt thereof the Administrative Agent shall promptly deliver to the Lenders):
Financial Statements
(a) as soon as available and in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, consolidated statements of earnings and cash flow of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period and for the period from the beginning of the respective fiscal year to the end of such period, and the related consolidated balance sheet as at the end of such period, setting forth in each case in comparative form the corresponding consolidated figures for the corresponding period in the preceding fiscal year, accompanied by a certificate of a senior financial officer of the Company which certificate shall state that said financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of and for the periods presented in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
(b) as soon as available and in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and common shareholders' equity of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such year and the related consolidated balance sheet as at the end of such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the corresponding consolidated figures for the preceding fiscal year, and accompanied by an unqualified opinion thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP or any other independent certified public accountants of recognized national standing, which opinion shall state that said consolidated financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial condition and results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of, and for, such fiscal year;
(c) promptly upon their becoming available, notices of the filing of all regular periodic reports which the Company shall have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (or any Governmental Authority substituted therefor) or any national securities exchange;
(d) promptly upon the mailing thereof to the shareholders of the Company generally, copies of all financial statements, reports and proxy statements so mailed, , where any such mailed copies shall also have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the requirements of this paragraph shall be satisfied by the posting of such filings as contemplated below in the last paragraph of this Section;
provided that
(e) promptly after the Company knows or has reason to know that any Default has occurred, a notice of such Default describing the same in reasonable detail and, together with such notice or as soon thereafter as possible, a description of the action that the Company has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(f) as soon as available and in any event within 100 days after the end of each fiscal year of each Approved Borrower but only to the extent prepared by the Company or such Approved Borrower, statements of earnings, cash flow and common shareholders' equity (if any) of such Approved Borrower for such year and the related balance sheet as at the end of such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the corresponding figures for the preceding fiscal year, accompanied by a certificate of a senior financial officer of the Company, which certificate shall state that said financial statements fairly present the financial condition and results of operations of such Approved Borrower in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, as at the end of, and for, such fiscal year;
(g) prompt written notice to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders upon any officer of the Company becoming aware of any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect; and
(h) from time to time such other information regarding the business, affairs or financial condition of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries (including any Plan or Multiemployer Plan and any reports or other information required to be filed under ERISA) as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request (on its own behalf or on behalf of any Lender).
The Company will furnish to the Administrative Agent, at the time it furnishes each set of financial statements pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a senior financial officer of the Company (i) to the effect that no Default has occurred and is continuing (or, if any Default has occurred and is continuing, describing the same in reasonable detail and describing the action that the Company has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto) and (ii) setting forth in reasonable detail the computations necessary to determine whether the Company is in compliance with Sections 6.08 and 6.09 as of the end of the respective quarterly fiscal period or fiscal year.
Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section (other than the certificate described in the preceding paragraph) shall be deemed to have been delivered in accordance with this Section on the date on which the Company notifies the Administrative Agent that such information has been posted on the Company's website on the Internet, at www.sec.gov or at another website identified by the Company in a notice to the Administrative Agent and accessible by the Lenders without charge.
SECTION 6.02. . The Company will promptly give to the Administrative Agent (and upon receipt thereof the Administrative Agent shall promptly give to the Lenders) notice of all legal or arbitral proceedings, and of all proceedings by or before any governmental or regulatory authority or agency, and any material development in respect of such legal or other proceedings, affecting the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, except any proceeding which, if adversely determined, would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
SECTION 6.03. .
Corporate Existence, Etc
(a) The Company will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to: preserve and maintain its legal existence and all of its material rights, privileges and franchises ( that nothing in this Section shall prohibit any transaction expressly permitted under Section 6.06); comply in all material respects with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority if failure to comply with such requirements would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; pay and discharge all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or
provided
 
levies imposed on it or on its income or profits or on any of its property prior to the date on which material penalties attach thereto, except for any such tax, assessment, charge or levy the payment of which is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and against which adequate reserves are being maintained; maintain all of its properties used or useful in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; , , that the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company may discontinue the maintenance of a property if such discontinuance is, in the opinion of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business and is not likely to have a Material Adverse Effect; keep proper books of record and account in which entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities; and upon reasonable advance notice, permit representatives of any Lender or the Administrative Agent, during normal business hours, to examine, copy and make extracts from its books and records, to inspect its properties, and to discuss its business and affairs with its officers, all to the extent reasonably requested by such Lender or the Administrative Agent.
provided
however
(b) The Company will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, (a) comply with all applicable Environmental Laws and obtain and comply with all Permits required by applicable Environmental Laws; and (b) conduct and complete all investigations, studies, sampling and testing, and all remedial and other corrective actions as required under any Environmental Laws unless being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and appropriate reserves are being maintained with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP, except in each case where failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 6.04. . The Company will maintain, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance underwritten by financially sound and reputable insurers, or self insurance (in accordance with normal industry practice) in such amounts and against such risks as ordinarily is carried or maintained by owners of like businesses and properties in similar circumstances.
Insurance
SECTION 6.05. . The Company will, and will cause each Approved Borrower to, use the proceeds of the Loans made to it hereunder solely for its general corporate purposes (in compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements), including acquisition financing; that neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender shall have any responsibility as to the use of any of such proceeds.
Use of Proceeds
provided
Part B. .
Negative Covenants
SECTION 6.06. . The Company will not, nor will it permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation or amalgamation, or liquidate, wind up or dissolve itself (or suffer any liquidation or dissolution). The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, convey, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of, in one transaction or a series of transactions, all or substantially all of its business or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired (excluding any inventory or other assets sold or disposed of in the ordinary course of business). Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section:
Prohibition of Fundamental Changes
(a) any Subsidiary of the Company may be merged or consolidated with or into: (i) the Company if the Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation or (ii) any other Subsidiary;
(b) any Subsidiary of the Company may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Company or any other Subsidiary of the Company;
(c) any Subsidiary of the Company may merge or consolidate with any other Person if the surviving Person is a Subsidiary of the Company;
 
(d) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if the Company determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Company and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders; and
(e) in addition to the dispositions permitted pursuant to clauses (a) through (d) of this Section and dispositions not otherwise restricted by this Section 6.06 (which for the avoidance of doubt shall include sales or transfers of accounts receivable and related rights and assets to Red Bird Receivables LLC and those certain Subsidiaries which are part of the Company's European account receivable securitization program in the ordinary course of business), any Subsidiary of the Company may sell or otherwise dispose of any other assets (including by merger or consolidation) if, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, the book value (determined at the time of sale or disposition) of such assets, together with the aggregate book value of all other assets sold or disposed of under this Section 6.06(e) since December 31, 2010 (assuming this Section 6.06 had been in effect since December 31, 2010), does not exceed 20% of Total Assets at December 31, 2010.
SECTION 6.07. . The Company will not, nor will it permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except:
Limitation on Liens
(a) Liens imposed by any Governmental Authority for taxes, assessments or charges not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings if, unless the amount thereof is not material with respect to it or its financial condition, adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, as the case may be, in accordance with GAAP;
(b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings;
(c) pledges or deposits under worker's compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation;
(d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(e) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business and encumbrances consisting of zoning restrictions, easements, licenses, restrictions on the use of property or minor imperfections in title thereto which, in the aggregate, are not material in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries;
(f) Liens on assets of Persons that become Subsidiaries of the Company after the date of this Agreement, that such Liens are in existence at the time the respective Persons become Subsidiaries of the Company and were not created in anticipation thereof;
provided
(g) Liens upon real and/or tangible personal property acquired after the date hereof (by purchase, construction or otherwise) by the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, each of which Liens either (A) existed on such property before the time of its acquisition and was not created in anticipation thereof, or (B) was created solely for the purpose of securing Indebtedness representing, or
 
incurred to finance, refinance or refund, the cost (including the cost of construction) of the respective property; in the case of clause (B) that such Lien attaches to such asset within 270 days after the acquisition or completion of construction and commencement of full operations thereof; that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any property of the Company or such Material Subsidiary other than the respective property so acquired and improvements thereon; and , that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured by any such Lien shall at no time exceed 95% of the fair market value (as determined in good faith by a senior financial officer of the Company) of the respective property at the time it was acquired (by purchase, construction or otherwise);
provided
provided
further
provided
further
(h) Liens on assets consisting of a capital project and rights related thereto ("") securing Indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or development of such Project Assets; that (x) such Indebtedness is non-recourse to any other assets; (y) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by this paragraph (h) may at no time exceed $200,000,000 and (z) such Liens attach to such Project Assets within two years after the initial acquisition or completion of construction or development of such Project Assets;
Project Assets
provided
(i) Liens upon real and/or personal property of the Company or any Material Subsidiary of the Company in favor of the United States of America or any State thereof, any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any State thereof, or any bonding authority (including any authority established for the issuance of industrial revenue bonds or similar instruments) to secure partial, progress, or advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure Indebtedness (including, but not limited to, industrial revenue bonds and similar instruments) incurred for the purpose of refinancing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of constructing or improving such property;
(j) Liens on (i) accounts receivable and related contract rights, letters of credit, accounts and similar assets arising in connection with any securitization transaction, and (ii) promissory notes, regulatory and any other related assets in connection with any financing transaction, in each case whether denominated as sales or borrowings;
(k) Liens granted to provide security in substitution for collateral presently securing existing Indebtedness, so long as such substitute collateral does not cover any property other than the property securing such existing Indebtedness;
(l) Liens securing judgments up to $200,000,000 for the payment of money in an amount not resulting (whether immediately or with the passage of time) in an Event of Default under subsection (h) of Article VII;
(m) Liens in existence on the date hereof and listed on Schedule V;
(n) additional Liens upon property, assets or revenues created after the date hereof, that the aggregate outstanding Indebtedness secured thereby and incurred on and after the date hereof shall not at any time exceed 10% of Tangible Assets; and
provided
(o) any extension, renewal or replacement of the foregoing, , , that the Liens permitted hereunder shall not be spread to cover any additional Indebtedness or property (other than a substitution of like property);
provided
however
and that the sale, mortgage or other transfer of timber in connection with an arrangement under which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is obligated to cut such timber (or any portion thereof) in order to provide the transferee with a specified amount of money (however determined) shall not be deemed to create Indebtedness secured by a Lien hereunder.
provided
further
 
SECTION 6.08. . The Company will not at any time permit the ratio of Total Debt to Total Capital to exceed 0.60 to 1.
Total Debt to Total Capital Ratio
SECTION 6.09. . The Company will not at any time permit Consolidated Net Worth to be less than $9,000,000,000.
Minimum Consolidated Net Worth
If one or more of the following events (herein called "") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
(a) Any Borrower shall default in the payment when due of any principal of any Loan; or any Borrower shall default in the payment when due of any interest on any Loan or any other amount payable by it hereunder and such default shall continue unremedied for five or more Business Days; or
(b) Any event specified in any note, agreement, indenture or other document evidencing or relating to any Indebtedness (other than (i) Indebtedness hereunder, (ii) Project Indebtedness, or (iii) Indebtedness owed by any Material Subsidiary to the Company) of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries aggregating $200,000,000 or more shall occur if the effect of such event is to cause, or (with the giving of any notice or the lapse of time or both) to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders) to cause, such Indebtedness to become due, or to be prepaid in full (whether by redemption, purchase or otherwise), prior to its stated maturity; or
(c) Any representation, warranty or certification made or deemed made herein or in any Designation Letter (or in any modification or supplement hereto or thereto) by any Obligor, or any certificate furnished to any Lender or the Administrative Agent pursuant to the provisions hereof or of any Designation Letter (or thereof), shall prove to have been false or misleading in any material respect as of the time made or furnished; or
(d) The Company shall default in the performance of any of its obligations under any of Sections 6.06, 6.07, 6.08 or 6.09; or any Obligor shall default in the performance of any of its other obligations in this Agreement and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of thirty days after notice thereof to such Obligor (through notification to the Company) by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (through the Administrative Agent); or
(e) The Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall admit in writing its inability to, or be generally unable to, pay its debts as such debts become due; or
(f) The Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall (i) apply for or consent to the appointment of, or the taking of possession by, a receiver, custodian, trustee or liquidator of itself or of all or a substantial part of its property, (ii) make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (iii) commence a voluntary case under the Bankruptcy Code (as now or hereafter in effect), (iv) file a petition seeking to take advantage of any other law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, winding-up, or composition or readjustment of debts, (v) fail to controvert in a timely and appropriate manner, or acquiesce in writing to, any petition filed against it in an involuntary case under the Bankruptcy Code, or (vi) take any corporate action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; or
 
(g) A proceeding or case shall be commenced, without the application or consent of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, in any court of competent jurisdiction, seeking (i) its liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding-up, or the composition or readjustment of its debts, (ii) the appointment of a trustee, receiver, custodian, liquidator or the like of the Company or such Material Subsidiary or of all or any substantial part of its assets, or (iii) similar relief in respect of the Company or such Material Subsidiary under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, winding-up, or composition or adjustment of debts, and such proceeding or case shall continue undismissed, or an order, judgment or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered and continue unstayed and in effect, for a period of 90 or more days; or an order for relief against the Company or such Material Subsidiary shall be entered in an involuntary case under the Bankruptcy Code; or
(h) A final judgment or judgments for the payment of money in excess of $200,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered by a court or courts against the Company and/or any of its Material Subsidiaries and the same shall not be discharged (or provision shall not be made for such discharge), or a stay of execution thereof shall not be procured, within 30 days from the date of entry thereof and the Company or the relevant Material Subsidiary shall not, within said period of 30 days, or such longer period during which execution of the same shall have been stayed, appeal therefrom and cause the execution thereof to be stayed during such appeal; or
(i) An ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or
(j) Any person or group of persons (within the meaning of Section 13 or 14 of the Exchange Act it being agreed that an employee of the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary for whom shares are held under an employee stock ownership, employee retirement, employee savings or similar plan and whose shares are voted in accordance with the instructions of such employee shall not be a member of a group of persons within the meaning of said Section 13 or 14 solely because such employee's shares are held by a trustee under said plan) shall acquire, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission under said Act, as amended) of 35% or more of the outstanding shares of stock of the Company having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect (whether immediately or ultimately) a majority of the board of directors of the Company (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class or classes of stock of the Company shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency); or
(k) During any period of 24 consecutive calendar months, a majority of the board of directors of the Company shall no longer be composed of individuals (i) who were members of said board of directors on the first day of such period or (ii) whose election or nomination to said board of directors was approved by individuals referred to in clause (j) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of said board of directors; or
(l) Any "Change of Control Triggering Event" (as defined in the Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 4, 2008 between the Company and the Bank of the New York, as trustee, as, such Supplemental Indenture is in effect on such date) shall occur; or
(m) Article IV of this Agreement shall at any time and for any reason be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be null and void, or the Company shall repudiate or deny any portion of its liability or obligation for the obligations of any Approved Borrower hereunder or any of the Guaranteed Obligations;
 
THEREUPON: (1) in the case of an Event of Default other than one referred to in clause (f) or (g) of this Article VII with respect to any Obligor, (a) the Administrative Agent may and, upon request of Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time, shall, by notice to the Company, cancel the Commitments and they shall thereupon terminate, and (b) the Administrative Agent may and, upon request of Lenders holding more than 50% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Loans (including Competitive Loans) shall, by notice to the Company, declare the principal amount then outstanding of, and the accrued interest on, the Loans and all other amounts payable by the Obligors hereunder (including any amounts payable under Section 2.14) to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon such amounts shall be immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other formalities of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Obligor; and (2) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default referred to in clause (f) or (g) of this Article VII with respect to any Obligor, the Commitments shall automatically be canceled and the principal amount then outstanding of, and the accrued interest on, the Loans and all other amounts payable by the Obligors hereunder (including any amounts payable under Section 2.14) shall automatically become immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other formalities of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Obligor.
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Company or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein); that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its judgment or the judgment of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable Requirements of Law, and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent
provided
 
shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Company or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article V or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Company. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor, subject to the consent of the Company (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), provided that the Company's consent shall not be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent shall, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, subject to the consent of the Company (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), provided that the Company's consent shall not be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. If the Administrative Agent notifies the Company that no Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and (2) the Required Lenders shall perform the duties of the Administrative Agent (and all payments and communications provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly) until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor agent as provided for above in this paragraph. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph). The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article VIII and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
 
In the event that the Administrative Agent shall become a Defaulting Lender it shall cooperate in good faith with efforts initiated by the Company, if any, to replace it with a successor Administrative Agent that is satisfactory to the Required Lenders and the Company (including resigning in connection with such replacement).
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
SECTION 9.01. .
Notices
(a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
(i) if to the Company or to any Borrower at Office of the Treasurer, International Paper Company, 6400 Poplar Avenue, Memphis, TN 38197 (Telecopy No. (901) 419-4539; Telephone No. (901) 419-4740); with a copy to the Office of the General Counsel, 6400 Poplar Avenue, Memphis, TN 38197 (Telecopy No. (901) 214-0647; Telephone No. (901) 419-3817);
(ii) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMCB, Loan and Agency Services  Texas, 1111 Fannin 10th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Leslie Hill (Telecopy No. (713) 427-6307 and Telephone No. (713) 750-2318) and Nina Guinchard (Telecopy No. (713) 427-6307 and Telephone No. (713) 750-2367); that, in the case of any notice that relates to a Loan denominated in a Foreign Currency, a copy thereof shall be delivered to J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, 125 London Wall, London EC2Y-5AJ, Attention: James Beard (Telecopy No. 011-44-207-777-2360/2085; Telephone No. 011-44-207-777-2355); and
provided
(iii) if to a Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto (or, in the case of any such change by a Lender, by notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent). All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt. Each Approved Borrower hereby agrees that any notice or other communication provided for herein to be given by or to such Approved Borrower may be given by or to the Company on behalf of such Approved Borrower in the manner specified above and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender shall be required to accept as effective any notice or other communication purporting to have been issued directly by an Approved Borrower (and not by the Company on behalf of such Approved Borrower).
 
(b) . Each Obligor further agrees that Administrative Agent may make all information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders pursuant to this Agreement , including all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials (collectively, the "") available to the Lenders by posting the Communications on IntraLinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the ""). The Platform is provided "as is" and "as available." The Administrative Agent does not warrant the accuracy or completeness of the Communications, or the adequacy of the Platform and expressly disclaim liability for errors or omissions in the communications. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Administrative Agent in connection with the Communications or the Platform. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties have any liability to the Obligors, any Lender or any other Person for damages of any kind, including direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, losses or expenses (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of any Obligor's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of communications through the Internet, except to the extent the liability of such Person is found in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Platform
Communications
Platform
Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a "") specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement; that if requested by any Lender the Administrative Agent shall deliver a copy of the Communications to such Lender by email or telecopier. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent in writing of such Lender's e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
Notice
provided
(c) . Each Obligor hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to distribute (i) to Private Siders all Communications and (ii) to Public Siders such Communications and only such Communications that the Company clearly identifies in writing as being available for communication to Public Siders (""). The Company represents and warrants that no Public Sider Communication contains or will contain any MNPI. "" means Lenders' employees and representatives who have declared that they are authorized to receive MNPI. "" means Lenders' employees and representatives who have not declared that they are authorized to receive MNPI; it being understood that Public Siders may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to the Company or its Affiliates' securities or loans. "" means material non-public information (within the meaning of United States federal securities laws) with respect to the Company, its Affiliates and any of their respective securities.
Public/Private
Public Sider Communications
Private Siders
Public Siders
MNPI
Each Lender acknowledges that United States federal and state securities laws prohibit any Person from purchasing or selling securities on the basis of material, non-public information concerning the issuer of such securities or, subject to certain limited exceptions, from communicating such information to any other Person. Each Lender confirms that it has developed procedures to ensure compliance with these securities laws.
Each Lender acknowledges that circumstances may arise that require it to refer to Communications that may contain MNPI. Accordingly, each Lender agrees that it will designate at least one individual to receive Private Sider Communications on its behalf in compliance with its procedures
 
and applicable law and identify such designee (including such designee's contact information) on such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire. Each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time of such Lender's designee's e-mail address to which notice of the availability of Private Sider Communications may be sent by electronic transmission.
Each Lender that elects not to be given access to Private Sider Communications does so voluntarily and, by such election, acknowledges and agrees that the Administrative Agent and other Lenders may have access to Private Sider Communications that such electing Lender does not have, and takes sole responsibility for the consequences of, and waives any and all claims based on or arising out of, not having access to Private Sider Communications.
SECTION 9.02. .
Waivers; Amendments
(a) . No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by any Obligor therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
No Deemed Waivers; Remedies Cumulative
(b) . Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by (x) each Borrower and (y) the Required Lenders or the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall
Amendments
provided
(i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender,
(ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby,
(iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby,
(iv) alter the manner in which payments or prepayments of principal, interest or other amounts hereunder, or reductions of Commitments, shall be applied as among the Lenders or Types or Classes of Loans, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, or
(v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the percentage in the definition of the term "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder or release or limit the Company's obligations (including, without limitation, those obligations under hereof) in respect of any Approved Borrower, without the written consent of each Lender;
Article IV
 
and that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent.
provided
further
SECTION 9.03. .
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(a) . The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arrangers and their respective Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one primary counsel (in addition to one local counsel per jurisdiction) for the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any proposed or effective amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arrangers or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arrangers or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including in connection with any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect thereof.
Costs and Expenses
(b) . The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arrangers and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and to hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or Release of Hazardous Materials on, at, under or from any property or facility owned or operated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or any liability arising under any Environmental Law related in any way to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee. This Section 9.03(b) shall not apply with respect to Taxes other than any Taxes that represent losses or damages arising from any non-Tax claim.
Indemnification by the Company
Indemnitee
provided
(c) . To the extent that the Company fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers, as applicable, in their respective capacities as such.
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
 
(d) . To the extent permitted by applicable law, no Obligor shall assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
(e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
Payments
SECTION 9.04. .
Successors and Assigns
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that (i) no Obligor may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by any Obligor without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, the Lead Arrangers, Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arrangers and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors Generally
(b) .
Assignments by Lenders
(i) . Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent of:
Assignments Generally
(A) the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld; provided that the Company shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within five (5) Business Days after having received notice thereof), that no consent of the Company shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default referred to in clause (a), (e), (f) or (g) of Article VII has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee; and
provided
(B) the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld).
(ii) . Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
Certain Conditions to Assignments
(A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate (or Approved Fund) of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Loans of any Class, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000, unless each of the Company and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, that no such consent of the Company shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing,
provided
 
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, that this clause shall not be construed to prohibit the assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations in respect of one Class of Commitments or Loans,
provided
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, and
(D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
(iii) . Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement in addition to any rights and obligations theretofore held by it as a Lender, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of and subject to the obligations of Sections 2.13, 2.14, 2.15, 2.16, 9.03 and 9.12). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph (b) shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
Effectiveness of Assignments
(iv) . The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Obligors, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Obligors, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Obligors and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Maintenance of Register
Register
(v) . Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b)(ii)(C) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b)(i) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
Acceptance of Assignments by Administrative Agent
 
(c) .
Participations
(i) . Any Lender may, without the consent of the Company or the Administrative Agent sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Obligors, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b), that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Company agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of and subject to the obligations under Sections 2.13, 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph to the contrary, any bank that is a member of the Farm Credit System that (a) has purchased a participation from CoBank in the minimum amount of $5,000,000 on or after the Effective Date, (b) is, by written notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent (""), designated by CoBank as being entitled to be accorded the rights of a voting participant hereunder (any bank that is a member of the Farm Credit System so designated being called a "") and (c) receives prior written consent of the Company and the Administrative Agent to become a Voting Participant, shall be entitled to vote (and the voting rights of CoBank shall be correspondingly reduced), on a dollar-for-dollar basis, as if such participant were a Lender, on any matter requiring or allowing a Lender to provide or withhold its consent, or to otherwise vote on any proposed action. To be effective, each Voting Participant Notification shall, with respect to any Voting Participant, (i) state the full name, as well as all contact information required of assignee as set forth in Exhibit A hereto and (ii) state the Dollar amount of the participation purchased. The Company and the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to conclusively rely on information contained in notices delivered pursuant to this paragraph. Each Lender, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Company, shall maintain a register for recordation of the names and addresses of its Participants and the amounts of their participations, the entries in which participant register shall be conclusive.
Participations Generally
Participant
provided
provided
Voting Participant Notification
Voting Participant
(ii) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.13, 2.15 or 2.16 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.15 unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Obligors, to comply with Section 2.15(e) as though it were a Lender (it being understood that the documentation required under Section 2.15 shall be delivered to the participating Lender). Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as a non-fiduciary agent of the Company, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Loans or other obligations under this Agreement (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the
Limitations on Rights of Participants
Participant Register
provided
 
Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Commitments, Loans or its other obligations under any this Agreement) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Commitment, Loan or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.
(d) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
SECTION 9.05. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by any Obligor herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.13, 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract between and among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 5.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
SECTION 9.07. . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
 
SECTION 9.08. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of any Obligor against any of and all the obligations of such Obligor now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
SECTION 9.09. .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
(a) . This Agreement and each Designation Letter shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
(b) . Each Obligor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against any Obligor or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
Submission to Jurisdiction
(c) . Each Obligor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
Waiver of Venue
(d) . Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01(a) (and for such purpose, each Approved Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints the Company as its authorized agent to accept such service of process in New York with respect to this Agreement and its Designation Letter). Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
Service of Process
SECTION 9.10. .
Waiver Of Jury Trial
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN
INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
 
SECTION 9.11. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
SECTION 9.12. .
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
(a) . Each Obligor acknowledges that from time to time financial advisory, investment banking and other services may be offered or provided to the Company or one or more of its Subsidiaries (in connection with this Agreement or otherwise) by any Lender or by one or more subsidiaries or affiliates of such Lender and each Obligor hereby authorizes each Lender to share any information delivered to such Lender by the Company and its Subsidiaries pursuant to this Agreement, or in connection with the decision of such Lender to enter into this Agreement, to any such subsidiary or affiliate, it being understood that any such subsidiary or affiliate receiving such information shall be bound by the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section as if it were a Lender hereunder. Such authorization shall survive the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Treatment of Certain Information
(b) . Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (i) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (ii) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority or self-regulatory body, (iii) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (iv) to any other party to this Agreement, (v) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (vi) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this paragraph, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (vii) with the consent of the Company or (viii) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this paragraph or (B) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company. For the purposes of this paragraph, "" means all information received from any Obligor relating to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (or their business) or obtained by the Administrative Agent or any Lender from a review of the books and records of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by such Obligor; that, in the case of information received from an Obligor after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Confidentiality
Information
provided
 
SECTION 9.13. .
European Monetary Union
(a) . As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
"" means economic and monetary union as contemplated in the Treaty on European Union.
EMU
"" means legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency (whether known as the euro or otherwise), being in part the implementation of the third stage of EMU.
EMU Legislation
"" means the single currency of Participating Member States of the European Union, which shall be a Foreign Currency under this Agreement.
Euros
"" means the Currency, other than the Euro, of a Participating Member State.
National Currency
"" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
"" means any day that is not (i) a Saturday or Sunday, (ii) Christmas Day or New Year's Day or (iii) any other day on which the Trans-European Real-time Gross Settlement Operating System (or any successor settlement system) is not operating (as determined by the Administrative Agent).
Target Operating Day
"" means the Treaty of Rome of March 25, 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1986 and the Maastricht Treaty (which was signed at Maastricht on February 7, 1992, and came into force on November 1, 1993), as amended from time to time.
Treaty on European Union
(b) . The provisions of paragraphs (c) through (h) of this Section shall be effective on the date hereof, that, if and to the extent that any such provision relates to any state (or the Currency of such state) that is not a Participating Member State on the date hereof, such provision shall become effective in relation to such state (and such Currency) at and from the date on which such state becomes a Participating Member State.
Effectiveness of Provisions
provided
(c) . Each obligation under this Agreement of a party to this Agreement which has been denominated in the National Currency of a state that is not a Participating Member State on the date hereof shall, effective upon the date on which such state becomes a Participating Member State, be redenominated in Euros in accordance with EMU Legislation; that, if and to the extent that any EMU Legislation provides that an amount denominated either in Euros or in the National Currency of a Participating Member State and payable within the Participating Member State by crediting an account of the creditor can be paid by the debtor either in Euros or in such National Currency, any party to this Agreement shall be entitled to pay or repay any such amount either in Euros or in such National Currency.
Redenomination and Alternative Currencies
provided
(d) . With respect to the payment of any amount denominated in Euros or in a National Currency, the Administrative Agent shall not be liable to any Borrower or any of the Lenders in any way whatsoever for any delay, or the consequences of any delay, in the crediting to any account of any amount required by this Agreement to be paid by the Administrative Agent if the Administrative Agent shall have taken all relevant steps to achieve, on the date required by this Agreement, the payment of such amount in immediately available, freely transferable, cleared funds (in Euros or in such National Currency, as the case may be) to the account of any Lender in the Principal Financial Center in the Participating Member State which such Borrower or such Lender, as the case may be, shall have specified for such purpose. For the purposes of this paragraph, "all relevant steps" means all such steps as may be prescribed from time to time by the regulations or operating procedures of such clearing or settlement system as the Administrative Agent may from time to time determine for the purpose of clearing or settling payments in Euros or such National Currency.
Payments by the Administrative Agent Generally
 
(e) . For the purposes of determining the date on which the Eurocurrency Rate is determined under this Agreement for the Interest Period for any Borrowing denominated in Euros (or in any National Currency), references in this Agreement to Business Days shall be deemed to be references to Target Operating Days. In addition, if the Administrative Agent determines, with respect to the Interest Period for any Borrowing denominated in a National Currency, that there is no IBOR displayed on the Screen for deposits denominated in such National Currency, the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period shall be based upon IBOR displayed on the Screen for the offering of deposits denominated in Euros.
Certain Rate Determinations
(f) . If the basis of accrual of interest or fees expressed in this Agreement with respect to the Currency of any state that becomes a Participating Member State shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest or fees in respect of the Euro, such convention or practice shall replace such expressed basis effective as of and from the date on which such state becomes a Participating Member State; that, with respect to any Borrowing denominated in such Currency that is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect at the end of the Interest Period therefor.
Basis of Accrual
provided
(g) . Without prejudice and in addition to any method of conversion or rounding prescribed by the EMU Legislation, each reference in this Agreement to a minimum amount, or to a multiple of a specified amount, in a National Currency to be paid to or by the Administrative Agent shall be replaced by a reference to such reasonably comparable and convenient amount, or to a multiple of such reasonably comparable and convenient amount, in Euros as the Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably specify.
Rounding
(h) . Without prejudice to the respective liabilities of any Borrower to the Lenders and the Lenders to any Borrower under or pursuant to this Agreement, except as expressly provided in this Section, each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably specify to be necessary or appropriate to reflect the introduction of or changeover to the Euro in Participating Member States.
Other Consequential Changes
SECTION 9.14. . This is an international loan transaction in which the specification of Dollars or any Foreign Currency, as the case may be (the ""), and payment in New York City or the country of the Specified Currency, as the case may be (the ""), is of the essence, and the Specified Currency shall be the currency of account in all events relating to Loans denominated in the Specified Currency. The payment obligations of the Obligors under this Agreement shall not be discharged or satisfied by an amount paid in another currency or in another place, whether pursuant to a judgment or otherwise, to the extent that the amount so paid on conversion to the Specified Currency and transfer to the Specified Place under normal banking procedures does not yield the amount of the Specified Currency at the Specified Place due hereunder. If for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in the Specified Currency into another currency (the ""), the rate of exchange that shall be applied shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the Specified Currency with the Second Currency on the Business Day next preceding the day on which such judgment is rendered. The obligation of any Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder (in this Section called an "") shall, notwithstanding the rate of exchange actually applied in rendering such judgment, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Entitled Person of any sum
Judgment Currency
Specified Currency
Specified Place
Second Currency
Entitled Person
 
adjudged to be due hereunder in the Second Currency such Entitled Person may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase and transfer to the Specified Place the Specified Currency with the amount of the Second Currency so adjudged to be due; and such Obligor hereby, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, agrees to indemnify such Entitled Person against, and to pay such Entitled Person on demand, in the Specified Currency, the amount (if any) by which the sum originally due to such Entitled Person in the Specified Currency hereunder exceeds the amount of the Specified Currency so purchased and transferred.
SECTION 9.15. . Each Lender that is subject to the Patriot Act and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notify each Obligor that pursuant to the "know your customer" regulations and the requirements of the Patriot Act, they are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Obligor, which information includes the name, address and tax identification number (and other identifying information in the event this information is insufficient to complete verification) that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to verify the identity of each Obligor. This information must be delivered to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent no later than five days prior to the Effective Date and thereafter promptly upon request. This notice is given in accordance with the requirements of the Patriot Act and is effective as to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent.
USA PATRIOT Act
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
SCHEDULE I
 
SCHEDULE II
 
SCHEDULE III
SCHEDULE IV
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Lender shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent of any change to the information provided by it pursuant to this paragraph.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE V
 
EXHIBIT A
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and ] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
[Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
5-Year Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the 5-Year Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the 5-Year Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the facility identified below and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the 5-Year Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
 
Effective Date (herein, the ""): _____________ ___, 20___ [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
Effective Date
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1
1. Representations and Warranties.
1.1 . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the 5-Year Credit Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the 5-Year Credit Agreement, (iii) the financial condition of each Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the 5-Year Credit Agreement or (iv) the performance or observance by each Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the 5-Year Credit Agreement.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the 5-Year Credit Agreement, (ii) it satisfies the requirements, if any, specified in the 5-Year Credit Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the 5-Year Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the 5-Year Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to this Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the 5-Year Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
 
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT B-1
August 26, 2011
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent
    under the Credit Agreement referred to below
1111 Fannin, 10th Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Each of the Lenders named in Schedule I
    attached hereto that are parties
    to the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special New York counsel to International Paper Company, a New York corporation (the "Borrower"), in connection with the 5-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions party thereto (collectively, the "Lenders") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (the "Administrative Agent").
The opinions expressed below are furnished to you pursuant to Section 5.01(b)(i) of the Credit Agreement. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in or defined by reference in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Credit Agreement. As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings: The term "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on the business, operations, property or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
In arriving at the opinions expressed below,
(a) we have examined and relied on the original, or a copy certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the Credit Agreement,
(b) we have examined and relied on such corporate documents and records of the Borrower and such other instruments and certificates of public officials, officers and representatives of the Borrower and other Persons as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion,
 
(c) we have examined and relied as to factual matters upon, and have assumed the accuracy of, the statements made in the certificates of public officials, officers and representatives of the Borrower and other Persons delivered to us and the representations and warranties contained in or made pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and
(d) we have made such investigations of law as we have deemed appropriate as a basis for this opinion.
In rendering the opinions expressed below, we have assumed, with your permission, without independent investigation or inquiry, () the authenticity and completeness of all documents submitted to us as originals, () the genuineness of all signatures on all documents that we examined, () the conformity to authentic originals and completeness of documents submitted to us as certified, conformed or photostatic copies, () the due authorization of the Credit Agreement by all parties thereto, () the due execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement by all parties thereto, () the enforceability of the Credit Agreement against each party thereto (other than the Borrower), () the corporate power and authority of the Borrower to enter into and perform its obligations under the Credit Agreement and () the accuracy of the opinion, dated today and addressed to you, by Marla F. Adair, Chief Counsel Global Corporate Governance, Tax and Treasury.
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and the assumptions, qualifications and limitations hereinafter set forth, we are of the opinion that:
1. The Borrower is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of New York.
2. The Credit Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
3. Except for () any consents, authorizations, approvals, notices and filings that have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect and () those consents, authorizations, approvals, notices and filings that, individually or in the aggregate, if not obtained or made, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, no consent or authorization of, approval by, notice to, or filing with, any United States federal or New York State court or governmental authority is required under United States federal or New York State law to be obtained or made on or prior to the date hereof by the Borrower in connection with its execution and delivery of, or performance of its payment obligations under, the Credit Agreement, or in connection with the validity or enforceability against it of the Credit Agreement.
a
b
4. The execution and delivery by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement () will not violate any existing United States federal or New York State law, rule or regulation applicable to the Borrower, except for such violations that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and () will not result in, or require, the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of its properties or revenues by operation of any law, rule or regulation referred to in the preceding clause ().
x
y
x
5. The Borrower is not required to be registered as an "investment company" (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended).
 
 
Our opinions set forth above are subject to the effects of () bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer, reorganization and moratorium laws and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights or remedies generally, () general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), () concepts of good faith, reasonableness and fair dealing, and standards of materiality, () limitations on the validity or enforceability of indemnification, contribution or exculpation under applicable laws, rules or regulations (including court decisions) or public policy and () possible judicial action giving effect to foreign laws or foreign governmental or judicial action affecting or relating to the rights or remedies of creditors. In addition, applicable laws and interpretations may affect the validity or enforceability of certain provisions of the Credit Agreement, but such limitations do not, in our opinion, make the remedies provided for therein inadequate for the practical realization of the principal benefits intended to be provided thereby (subject to the other qualifications expressed herein).
i
ii
iii
iv
v
Without limiting the foregoing, we express no opinion as to the validity, binding effect or enforceability of any provision of the Credit Agreement that purports to () waive, release or vary any defense, right or privilege of, or any duties owing to, the Borrower to the extent that such waiver, release or variation may be limited by provisions of applicable law, () grant a right to collect any amount that a court determines to constitute unearned interest or post judgment interest, () grant any right of set-off with respect to any contingent or unmatured obligation, or to permit any Person purchasing a participation from a Lender to exercise set-off rights with respect to such participation, () maintain or impose any obligation to pay any amount in U.S. dollars, or specify any rate or method of exchange, where a final judgment concerning such obligation is rendered in another currency, or maintain or impose any obligation to pay any amount in a foreign currency, or specify any rate or method of exchange, where a final judgment concerning such obligation is rendered in U.S. Dollars, () constitute a waiver of inconvenient forum or improper venue or () relate to the subject matter jurisdiction of a court to adjudicate any controversy. In addition, the enforceability of any provision in the Credit Agreement to the effect that () the terms thereof may not be waived or modified except in writing, () the express terms thereof supersede any inconsistent course of dealing, performance or usage of trade or () certain determinations made by one party shall have conclusive effect, may be limited under certain circumstances. Our opinion in paragraph 3 above with respect to the choice of law and choice of forum provision of the Credit Agreement is given in reliance on, and is limited in scope to, Sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the General Obligations Law of the State of New York, and we express no opinion with respect to any such provision insofar as it exceeds such scope.
i
ii
iii
iv
v
viii
i
ii
iii
We express no opinion as to the effect of, or compliance with, any federal or state laws regarding fraudulent transfers or fraudulent conveyances or laws governing preferential transfers, or laws restricting dividends, loans or other distributions by a corporation or other entity to or for the benefit of its stockholders or other equityholders, or any securities laws, rules or regulations, including without limitation as to the effect thereof on the validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Credit Agreement.
We express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States of America, as currently in effect, in each case that in our experience are generally applicable to transactions of this type. In particular (and without limiting the generality of the foregoing) we express no opinion as to () the laws of any
a
 
 
country (other than the federal laws of the United States of America) or () the effect of such laws (whether limiting, prohibitive or otherwise) on any of the rights or obligations of the Borrower or of any other party to or beneficiary of the Credit Agreement or () whether the choice of the law of the State of New York as the governing law in the Credit Agreement would be given effect by any court or other governmental authority other than a New York State court. We have assumed, with your permission, that the execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement by each of the parties thereto and the performance of their respective obligations thereunder will not be illegal or unenforceable or violate any fundamental public policy under applicable law (other than the laws of the State of New York and federal laws of the United States of America), and that no such party has entered therein with the intent of avoiding or a view to violating applicable law. In giving the foregoing opinion, we express no opinion as to the effect (if any) of any law of any jurisdiction (except the State of New York) in which any Lender is located that limits the rate of interest that such Lender may charge or collect.
b
c
The opinions expressed herein are solely for your benefit and, without our prior written consent, neither our opinions nor this opinion letter may be relied upon by any other person (other than the persons who become Lenders within 14 days of the date of this opinion letter) or publicly disclosed to any other person, it being understood that you may disclose a copy of this opinion letter (in whole but not in part) () to bank examiners and other regulatory authorities should they so request in connection with their normal examinations, () to your and their independent auditors and attorneys, () pursuant to orders or legal process of any court or governmental agency or () in connection with any legal action to which any Lender is a party arising out of the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement.
i
ii
iii
iv
This opinion letter is limited to and no opinion is implied or may be inferred beyond, the matters expressly stated herein. The opinions expressed herein are rendered only as of the date hereof, and we assume no responsibility to advise you of facts, circumstances, changes in law, or other events or developments which hereafter may occur or be brought to our attention and which may alter, affect or modify the opinions expressed herein.
            Very truly yours,
 
Name of Lender
JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.
Citibank, N.A.
UBS Loan Finance LLC
CoBank, ACB
Bank of America, N.A.
BNP Paribas
Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch
HSBC Bank USA, National Association
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A., New York Branch
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd.
Regions Bank
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation
DnB NOR Bank ASA
Nordea Bank Finland Plc
PNC Bank, National Association
State Street Bank and Trust Company
The Bank of New York Mellon
U.S. Bank National Association
 
EXHIBIT B-2
August 26, 2011
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement
as referred to below
1111 Fannin, 10th Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Each of the Lenders named in Schedule I
    attached hereto that are parties
    to the Credit Agreement referred to below
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am the Chief Counsel - Global Corporate Governance, Treasury & Tax of International Paper Company, a New York corporation (""), and as such have assisted with the legal and corporate proceedings in connection with the execution and delivery by IP of a Credit Agreement, dated as of the date hereof (the ""), among IP, the several banks and other financial institutions parties thereto (collectively, the "") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (the "").
IP
Credit Agreement
Lenders
Administrative Agent
The opinions expressed below are furnished to you pursuant to Section 5.01(b)(ii) of the Credit Agreement. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in or defined by reference in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Credit Agreement.
In rendering the opinions expressed below, I have examined the original, or a copy certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of the Credit Agreement. In addition, I have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of the International Paper Company Board of Directors' Resolutions, approved December 13, 2005, and amended May 7, 2007, the Approval under Delegation of Authority by John V. Faraci dated August 22, 2011, and such other documents, corporate records, certificates of public authorities, and other documents and instruments as I have deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of rendering the opinions hereinafter expressed. In such examination, I have assumed () the genuineness of all signatures not witnessed (other than signatures of IP), () the authenticity of all documents submitted as originals and the conformity to originals of documents submitted as copies, and () the legal capacity of all natural persons executing the Credit Agreement. As to various questions of fact material to the opinions hereafter expressed, I have, when such facts were not independently established by me or IP's legal staff, relied upon the representations and certificates of officers of IP, its subsidiaries and of public officials.
i
ii
iii
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and subject also to the comments and qualifications set forth below, and having considered such questions of law as I have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below, I am of the opinion that:
1. IP has the corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
 
2. IP has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize its execution and delivery of and performance of its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
3. The Credit Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of IP.
4. The execution and delivery by IP of and the performance by IP of its obligations in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement will not violate (a) the certificate of incorporation and by-laws of IP or (b) any contract listed in Schedule II hereto to which IP is a party, except in the case of this clause (b) for such violations that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
5. I do not know of any litigation or any governmental proceeding pending or threatened against IP or any of its subsidiaries that would prohibit IP from executing, delivering or performing its obligations under the Credit Agreement, or that could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
I am a member of the bar of the State of Tennessee and I express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of Tennessee and the federal laws of the United States of America, as currently in effect, in each case that in my experience are generally applicable to transactions of this type. Insofar as the foregoing opinions depend on matters governed by the laws of any other jurisdiction, I have assumed, with your permission and without investigation, that the laws of such other jurisdiction are the same as those of the State of Tennessee.
The opinions expressed in this letter () are limited to the matters expressly stated herein and no opinion is implied or may be inferred beyond the matters expressly stated, and () are rendered as of the date hereof and are based on existing law (which is subject to change), and I make no undertaking to supplement this opinion if, after the date hereof, facts or circumstances come to my attention or changes in law occur that could affect the matters expressed herein.
i
ii
The opinions expressed herein are solely for your benefit and, without my prior written consent, neither my opinions nor this opinion letter may be relied upon by any other person (other than the persons who become Lenders within 14 days of the date of this opinion letter) or publicly disclosed to any other person, it being understood that you may disclose a copy of this opinion letter (in whole but not in part) (i) to bank examiners and other regulatory authorities should they so request in connection with their normal examinations, (ii) to your and their independent auditors and attorneys, (iii) pursuant to orders or legal process of any court or governmental agency or (iv) in connection with any legal action to which any Lender is a party arising out of the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement.
 
 
Name of Lender
JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.
Citibank, N.A.
UBS Loan Finance LLC
CoBank, ACB
Bank of America, N.A.
BNP Paribas
Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch
HSBC Bank USA, National Association
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A., New York Branch
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd.
Regions Bank
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation
DnB NOR Bank ASA
Nordea Bank Finland Plc
PNC Bank, National Association
State Street Bank and Trust Company
The Bank of New York Mellon
U.S. Bank National Association
 
Indentures and Related Notes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bank Facilities
 
(i) Second Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of March 13, 2008 (as amended, most recently by the Fourth Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of January 12, 2011), among Red Bird Receivables, LLC, as Borrower, International Paper Company, as Servicer, the Conduits and Liquidity Banks from time to time a party thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., New York Branch, as Gotham Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as PARCO Agent, BNP Paribas, acting through its New York Branch, as Starbird Agent, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, as Atlantic Agent, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd, as WCM Agent and Citicorp North America, Inc., as CAFCO Agent and as Administrative Agent.
(ii) Receivables Sale and Contribution Agreement, dated as of March 13, 2008 (as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Receivables Sale and Contribution Agreement, dated as of August 29, 2008), between International Paper Company and Red Bird Receivables, LLC.
Monetization Debt Securities
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
I, [], [senior financial officer] of International Paper Company, a New York corporation (the ""), pursuant to Section 5.01(d) of the Credit Agreement (the "") dated as of August 26, 2011 among the Company, the Lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Agreement), DO HEREBY CERTIFY, in such capacity on behalf of the Company, as follows:
                
Company
Agreement
(a) the representations and warranties of the Company in Part A of Article III of the Agreement [and the representations and warranties of [], as an Approved Borrower, in Part B of Article III of the Agreement, in each case]
                    
5
are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except in the case of any such representation or warranty that expressly relates to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty is true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date; and
(b) no Default has occurred and is continuing.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be executed on its behalf by the undersigned on and as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
EXHIBIT D-1
[__________, ____]
To JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent party to the 5-Year Credit Agreement
referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We make reference to the 5-Year Credit Agreement (the "") dated as of August 26, 2011 between International Paper Company (the ""), the lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Terms defined in the 5-Year Credit Agreement are used herein as defined therein.
5-Year Credit Agreement
Company
Subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Applicable Lenders (to be evidenced by signing at the place below indicated and returning to the Company the enclosed copy of this letter) the Company hereby designates _________________ (the ""), a Wholly Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of the Company, a [corporation duly incorporated] under the laws of [State/Country], as an Approved Borrower in accordance with Section 2.01(b) of the 5-Year Credit Agreement until such designation is terminated in accordance with said Section 2.01(b).
Approved Borrower
The Approved Borrower hereby accepts the above-designation and hereby expressly and unconditionally accepts the obligations of a Borrower under the 5-Year Credit Agreement, adheres to the 5-Year Credit Agreement and agrees and confirms that, upon your execution and return to the Company of the enclosed copy of this letter, it shall be a Borrower for purposes of the 5-Year Credit Agreement and agrees to be bound by and to perform and comply with the terms and provision of the 5-Year Credit Agreement applicable to it as if it had originally executed the 5-Year Credit Agreement. The Approved Borrower hereby authorizes and empowers the Company to act as its representative and attorney-in-fact for the purposes of signing documents and giving and receiving notices (including notices of borrowing under Article II of the 5-Year Credit Agreement) and other communications in connection with the 5-Year Credit Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby and further agrees that the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may conclusively rely on the foregoing authorization.
The Approved Borrower hereby submits with this Designation Letter, the statements of earnings, cash flow and common shareholders' equity (if any) of the Approved Borrower for each of the most recently completed fiscal quarter and the most recently completed fiscal year of the Approved Borrower and the related balance sheets as at the end of such quarter and such year, respectively; and the Company and the Approved Borrower each hereby certifies that the said financial statements fairly present the financial condition and results of the operations of such Approved Borrower in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, as at the end of, and for, such quarter and such year, respectively.
The Company hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that, before and after giving effect to this Designation Letter, (i) the representations and warranties set forth in Part A of Article III of the 5-Year Credit Agreement (other than the last sentence of Section 3.02) are true and correct on the date hereof as if made on and as of the date hereof and (ii) no Default has occurred and is continuing.
 
The Approved Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that, after giving effect to this Designation Letter, the representations and warranties set forth in Part B of Article III of the 5-Year Credit Agreement are true and correct on the date hereof.
The Approved Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Designation Letter or the 5-Year Credit Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. The Approved Borrower agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. The Approved Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Designation Letter or the 5-Year Credit Agreement in any court referred to above. The Approved Borrower hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. The Approved Borrower irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01(a) of the 5-Year Credit Agreement (and for such purpose, the Approved Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints the Company as its authorized agent to accept such service of process in New York with respect to this Designation Letter and the 5-Year Credit Agreement).
The Approved Borrower hereby instructs its counsel to deliver to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent the opinion referred to in Section 5.02(b) of the 5-Year Credit Agreement.
THE APPROVED BORROWER HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS DESIGNATION LETTER OR THE 5-Year CREDIT AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). THE APPROVED BORROWER (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY TO THE 5-Year CREDIT AGREEMENT HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND SUCH OTHER PARTIES HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS DESIGNATION LETTER AND THE 5-Year CREDIT AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS PARAGRAPH.
This Designation Letter may be consented to and agreed in any number of counterparts and by the Administrative Agent and each Applicable Lender on separate counterparts, each of which, when executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed signature page by facsimile or electronic mail shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.
 
 
EXHIBIT D-2
[__________, ____]
To JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent party to the 5-Year Credit Agreement
referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We make reference to the 5-Year Credit Agreement (the "") dated as of August 26, 2011 between International Paper Company (the ""), the lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Terms defined in the 5-Year Credit Agreement are used herein as defined therein.
5-Year Credit Agreement
Company
The Company hereby terminates the status as an Approved Borrower of __________, a [corporation incorporated] under the laws of [State/Country], in accordance with Section 2.01(b) of the 5-Year Credit Agreement, effective as of the date of receipt of this notice by the Administrative Agent. The undersigned hereby represent and warrant that all principal of and interest on all Loans of the above-referenced Approved Borrower and all other amounts payable by such Approved Borrower pursuant to the 5-Year Credit Agreement have been paid in full on or prior to the date hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Termination Letter shall not affect any obligation which by the terms of the 5-Year Credit Agreement survives termination hereof.
 
 
EXHIBIT E
INCREASING LENDER SUPPLEMENT, dated __________, 20___ (this ""), by and among each of the signatories hereto, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of August 26, 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among International Paper Company (the ""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "").
Supplement
Credit Agreement
Company
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the Company has the right, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to effectuate from time to time an increase in the Commitments under the Credit Agreement by requesting one or more Lenders to increase the amount of its Commitment;
Section 2.19
WHEREAS, the Company has given notice to the Administrative Agent of its intention to increase the Commitments under the Credit Agreement pursuant to such ; and
Section 2.19
WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned Increasing Lender now desires to increase the amount of its Commitment under the Credit Agreement by executing and delivering to the Company and the Administrative Agent this Supplement;
Section 2.19
NOW, THEREFORE, each of the parties hereto hereby agrees as follows:
1. The undersigned Increasing Lender agrees, subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, that on the date of this Supplement it shall have its Commitment increased by $[], thereby making the aggregate amount of its total Commitments equal to $[].
            
            
2. The Company hereby represents and warrants that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on and as of the date hereof.
3. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement shall have their defined meanings when used herein.
4. This Supplement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
5. This Supplement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same document. Delivery of an executed signature page to this Supplement by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Supplement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this Supplement to be executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer on the date first above written.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT F
AUGMENTING LENDER SUPPLEMENT, dated __________, 20___ (this ""), to the Credit Agreement, dated as of August 26, 2011 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among International Paper Company (the ""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "").
Supplement
Credit Agreement
Company
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS, the Credit Agreement provides in thereof that any bank, financial institution or other entity may extend Commitments under the Credit Agreement subject to the approval of the Company and the Administrative Agent, by executing and delivering to the Company and the Administrative Agent a supplement to the Credit Agreement in substantially the form of this Supplement; and
Section 2.19
WHEREAS, the undersigned Augmenting Lender was not an original party to the Credit Agreement but now desires to become a party thereto;
NOW, THEREFORE, each of the parties hereto hereby agrees as follows:
1. The undersigned Augmenting Lender agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and agrees that it shall, on the date of this Supplement, become a Lender for all purposes of the Credit Agreement to the same extent as if originally a party thereto, with a Commitment with respect to Syndicated Loans of $[].
            
2. The undersigned Augmenting Lender (a) represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into this Supplement; (b) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to thereof, as applicable, and has reviewed such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Supplement; (c) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto; (d) appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are incidental thereto; and (e) agrees that it will be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and will perform in accordance with its terms all the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Section 6.01
3. The undersigned's address for notices for the purposes of the Credit Agreement is as follows:
[]
            
4. The Company hereby represents and warrants that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on and as of the date hereof.
 
5. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement shall have their defined meanings when used herein.
6. This Supplement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
7. This Supplement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same document. Delivery of an executed signature page to this Supplement by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Supplement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this Supplement to be executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer on the date first above written.
 
 
 


