FILE:IP/IP-8K-20111027172835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2011, International Paper Company ("International Paper") hosted certain conference calls to discuss its third quarter earnings release and other matters, including its pending acquisition of Temple-Inland Inc ("Temple-Inland") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated September 6, 2011, among International Paper, Metal Acquisition Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of International Paper, and Temple-Inland.
A copy of the presentation materials and transcripts of the conference calls, in each case excerpted to include only the portions related to the pending acquisition of Temple Inland, are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
In connection with the proposed merger, Temple-Inland has filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). When completed, a definitive proxy statement and a form of proxy will be mailed to shareholders of Temple-Inland. Investors and security holders are advised to read the definitive proxy statement because it will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the definitive proxy statement (when available) and other relevant documents filed by Temple-Inland at the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov. The definitive proxy statement and other relevant documents also may be obtained (after it has been filed with the SEC) for free from International Paper by directing such request to International Paper, Investor Relations, telephone (800) 678-8715.
CERTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING PARTICIPANTS
International Paper and certain of its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of International Paper's directors and executive officers in International Paper's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 which was filed with the SEC on February 25, 2011, and its proxy statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on April 8, 2011. Additional information regarding the interests of participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the merger will be included in the definitive proxy statement that Temple-Inland intends to file with the SEC. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this communication other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's current views and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ relate to: (i) the receipt of Temple-Inland shareholder and regulatory approvals for the transaction and the successful fulfillment or waiver of all other closing conditions without unexpected delays or conditions; (ii) the failure to realize synergies and cost-savings from the transaction or delay in realization thereof; (iii) increases in interest rates; (iv) industry conditions, including but not limited to changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation costs, competition we face, cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences, demand and pricing for our products; (v) global economic conditions and political changes, including but not limited to the impairment of financial institutions, changes in currency exchange rates, credit ratings issued by recognized credit rating
 
organizations, the amount of our future pension funding obligation, changes in tax laws and pension and health care costs; (vi) unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with existing and new environmental and other governmental regulations and to actual or potential litigation; and (vii) whether we experience a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities and risks inherent in conducting business through a joint venture. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any statements or information relating to this release or the offer described above, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's SEC filings.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 


Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
The following is an excerpt from the transcript of International Paper Company's conference call with officers held on October 27, 2011:
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
In connection with the proposed merger, Temple-Inland has filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). When completed, a definitive proxy statement and a form of proxy will be mailed to shareholders of Temple-Inland. Investors and security holders are advised to read the definitive proxy statement because it will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the definitive proxy statement (when available) and other relevant documents filed by Temple-Inland at the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov. The definitive proxy statement and other relevant documents also may be obtained (after it has been filed with the SEC) for free from International Paper by directing such request to International Paper, Investor Relations, telephone (800) 678-8715.
CERTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING PARTICIPANTS
International Paper and certain of its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of International Paper's directors and executive officers in International Paper's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 which was filed with the SEC on February 25, 2011, and its proxy statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on April 8, 2011. Additional information regarding the interests of participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the merger will be included in the definitive proxy statement that Temple-Inland intends to file with the SEC. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above.
[John V. Faraci, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer]: In terms of Temple, we still need the same things to get the transaction to the finish line. DOJ approval, which we think we'll get, and the satisfactory shareowners vote by Temple shareowners which we also think we'll get. Temple has filed a response to the SEC on the proxy we sent and will be setting a date for the shareowner vote in the next couple of weeks. We've complied with the second request the Justice Department had. We did that last Friday and we think the process is going to start to move a little faster now that we've done that but it's still going to take a little bit of time. I think the integration process has gone well. Being led by John Balboni, he's handling  or leading  the corporate side of this, and John Sims the business side. I've met with Doyle Simons twice. Both have been good meetings. There was a joint meeting between IP and Temple on October 12 here and we've had several integration teams going to Austin over the last several weeks. There's a limit to what we can do because we don't have DOJ approval but on the people side and some of the IT planning we can get going and we are going. We're still targeting day 1 for later this year or early January. Just depends on shareowner vote and DOJ approval but we're getting closer.


