FILE:IP/IP-8K-20111108082225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
In connection with the pending acquisition of Temple-Inland Inc. ("Temple") by International Paper Company, the following financial statements are provided:
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements of International Paper Company are provided:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 8, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the reference to our firm under the caption "Experts" and to the use of our report dated February 22, 2011, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Temple-Inland Inc. and subsidiaries included in this Registration Statement No. 333-157573 on Form S-3 and Registration Statements No. 333-61335, 333-01667, 333-75235, 333-37390, 333-85830, 333-85828, 333-85826, 333-85824, 333-85822, 333-85818, 333-85820, 333-108046, 333-120293, 333-145459, 333-154522, 333-154523, 333-159336, and 333-164230 on Form S-8, the Form 8-K of International Paper Company dated November 8, 2011 and related Prospectus of International Paper Company for the registration of notes.
 
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
 
ERNST & YOUNG LLP
 Austin, Texas
 November 8, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Temple-Inland Inc., its subsidiaries and special purpose and variable interest entities of which we are the primary beneficiary. We account for our investment in other ventures under the equity method.
We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events. Actual results can, and probably will, differ from those we currently estimate. We eliminate all material intercompany accounts and transactions.
Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31, which from time to time means that a fiscal year will include 53 weeks instead of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2010 had 52 weeks, and ended January 1, 2011.
We translate the balance sheets of our international operations where the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. We include adjustments resulting from financial statement translation in other comprehensive income.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
We estimate future probable losses of our current trade receivables and establish an allowance for doubtful accounts based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified during our evaluation.
Activity in our allowance for doubtful accounts is as follows:
 
Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations
We recognize legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets when the obligation is incurred. We record the estimated present value of the retirement obligation and increase the carrying value of the long-lived asset by a like amount. Over time, we accrete or increase the liability to its settlement value and we depreciate or decrease the asset to zero. When we settle the obligation we recognize a gain or loss for any difference between the settlement amount and the then recorded obligation.
Our asset retirement obligations consist principally of costs to remediate landfills we operate.
Many of our manufacturing facilities contain asbestos and lead paint. We are currently not required to remove any of these materials, but we could be required to do so in the future if we were to demolish or undertake major renovations of these facilities. At this time we have no such plan, which makes it impractical to estimate the fair value of any related asset retirement obligations. Accordingly, a liability has not been recognized for these asset retirement obligations.
 
 
In addition, we record environmental remediation liabilities on an undiscounted basis when environmental assessments or remediation are probable and we can reasonably estimate the cost.
We review our estimates when new information is obtained or circumstances change and make appropriate adjustments to our obligations, when necessary.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and other short-term instruments with original maturities of three months or less.
Derivatives
We use, from time to time and then only to a limited degree, derivative instruments to mitigate our exposure to risks associated with changes in interest rates, product pricing and manufacturing costs. We do not enter into derivatives for trading purposes. We have no significant derivative instruments outstanding at year-end 2010.
Derivative financial instruments are designated and documented as hedges at the inception of the contract and on an ongoing basis. We assess and measure the effectiveness of derivative instruments, using correlation ratios, at inception and on an ongoing basis. If a derivative instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge or if the derivative instrument is terminated or settled prior to the expected maturity or realization of the underlying item, we stop using hedge accounting.
Fair Value Measurements
Financial instruments for which we did not elect the fair value option include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, other current assets, accounts payable, other current liabilities, long-term debt, and financial assets and nonrecourse financial liabilities of special purpose entities. With the exception of long-term debt, the carrying amounts of these financial instruments approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature or variable interest rates.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
We do not amortize goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. Instead, we measure these assets for impairment based on estimated fair values annually as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of each year and at other times if events or circumstances indicate that impairment might exist. Since the annual impairment testing for 2010, there were no changes in the composition of our reporting units or in our operations to indicate that it was likely that there had been any significant deterioration in the estimated fair value of our reporting units. Therefore, we did not test goodwill for impairment at year-end 2010.
We measure goodwill for impairment at the segment level for corrugated packaging and at the reporting unit level for building products. To estimate fair value we use discounted cash flow models, which require us to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows. Other key assumptions include product pricing, raw material costs and discount rate, which are based on a weighted average cost of capital adjusted for market risk premiums.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated lives. We capitalize purchased software costs as well as the direct internal and external costs associated with software we develop for our own use. We amortize these capitalized costs using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from three to seven years.
 
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We review long-lived assets held for use for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment exists if the carrying amount of the long-lived asset is not recoverable from the undiscounted cash flows expected from its use and eventual disposition. We determine the amount of the impairment loss by comparing the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. In the absence of quoted market prices, we determine estimated fair value generally based on the present value of future probability weighted cash flows expected from the use and eventual disposition of the long-lived asset. We carry assets held for sale at the lower of carrying value or estimated fair value less costs to sell.
Income Taxes
We provide deferred income taxes using current tax rates for temporary differences between the financial accounting carrying value of assets and liabilities and their tax accounting carrying values. We recognize and value income tax exposures for the various taxing jurisdictions where we operate based on tax laws, tax elections, commonly accepted tax positions, and management estimates. We include tax penalties and interest in income tax expense.
Inventories
We carry inventories at the lower of cost or market. We determine cost using the average cost method, which approximates the first-in, first-out method.
We value non-monetary exchanges of similar inventory at carrying value of the inventory given up instead of the fair value of the inventory received. Our corrugated packaging segment enters into these agreements that generally represent the exchange of linerboard we manufacture for corrugating medium manufactured by others. We include these exchanges in cost of sales.
Pension and Postretirement Plans
We recognize the funded status of our pension plans as assets or liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. The funded status is the difference between our projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets.
 
 
Property and Equipment
We carry property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. We capitalize the cost of significant additions and improvements, and we expense the cost of repairs and maintenance, including planned major maintenance. We capitalize interest costs incurred on major construction projects. We depreciate these assets using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives as follows:
 
We include in property and equipment $36 million of assets subject to capital leases. We depreciate these assets and any improvements to leased assets using the straight-line method over the shorter of their lease term or their estimated useful lives. We expense operating leases ratably over the lease term.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize product revenue upon passage of title, which occurs at the time the product is delivered to the customer, the price is fixed and determinable, and we are reasonably sure of collection. Other revenue, which is not significant, is recognized when the service has been performed, the value is determinable, and we are reasonably sure of collection.
We include the amounts billed to customers for shipping in net revenues and the related costs in cost of sales.
We exclude from revenue, amounts we collect from customers that represent sales tax or other taxes that are based on the sale. These amounts are included in other accrued expenses until paid.
Share-Based and Long-term Incentive Compensation
We account for share-based compensation using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model for stock options and the grant date or period-end fair value of our common stock for all other awards. We generally expense these share-based and long-term incentive awards over the vesting period or earlier based on retirement eligibility criteria.
Special Purpose and Variable Interest Entities
We consolidate special purpose and variable interest entities if we determine that we are the primary beneficiary.
New Accounting Standards Adopted in 2010
Beginning January 2010, we adopted certain amendments to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 810, , that revised how the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity is determined and the frequency of assessing the need to consolidate a variable interest entity. Adoption did not have a significant effect on our earnings or financial position.
Consolidation
 
 
Note 2  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Carrying value of goodwill and capitalized software, our other intangible asset, follows:
 
Amortization expense related to capitalized software included in cost of sales and general and administrative expense was $9 million in 2010.
Amortization expense related to existing capitalized software for each of the next five years is expected to be:
 
Note 3  Joint Ventures
Our only significant joint venture investment is Del-Tin Fiber LLC (Del-Tin), a 50 percent owned venture that produces medium density fiberboard in El Dorado, Arkansas. Our joint venture partner is a publicly-held company unrelated to us.
Combined summarized financial information of this joint venture follows:
 
We and our joint venture partner contribute to and receive distributions from this venture equally. In 2010, we contributed $2 million and received $7 million.
 
 
Our investment in joint ventures is included in other assets, and our equity in earnings is included in other operating income (expense).
We provide marketing services to Del-Tin. Fees for these services were $2 million in 2010.
Note 4  Long-Term Debt
Long-term debt consists of:
 
At year-end 2010, we had $710 million in committed credit agreements. In June 2010 we replaced our existing $750 million revolving credit facility, which would have matured in July 2011, with a new credit facility that matures in June 2014. The new credit facility provides for a $600 million unsecured revolving line of credit, which includes a $100 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The remaining $110 million of our committed credit agreements are bilateral agreements that mature in 2011, of which $85 million have term out provisions that extend the final maturities to 2013. At year-end 2010, our long-term debt included $25 million of borrowings under these committed credit facilities, which must be repaid in August 2011. We have classified these borrowings as long-term debt because of our intent and ability to refinance them on a long-term basis under our existing facilities. At year-end 2010, we had $16 million of letters of credit issued under our new $600 million credit facility. Our unused capacity under these facilities was $669 million at year-end 2010.
At year-end 2010, we had a $250 million accounts receivable securitization facility that expires in 2013. Under this facility, a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary purchases, on an on-going basis, substantially all our trade receivables. As we need funds, the subsidiary draws under its revolving credit arrangement, pledges the trade receivables as collateral, and remits the proceeds to us. In the event of liquidation of the subsidiary, its creditors would be entitled to satisfy their claims from the subsidiary's pledged receivables prior to distributions back to us. We include this subsidiary in our consolidated financial statements. At year-end 2010, the subsidiary owned $365 million in net trade receivables against which it had borrowed $153 million. At year-end 2010, the unused capacity under this facility was $97 million. The borrowing base, which is determined by the level of our trade receivables, may be below the maximum committed amount of the facility in periods when the balance of our trade receivables is low. At year-end 2010, the borrowing base was $250 million, the maximum committed amount of the facility.
In 2010, we recognized a loss of $1 million associated with the purchase and retirement of $16 million of our 7.875% Senior Notes due in 2012.
 
 
Maturities of our debt during the next five years are:
 
We capitalize and deduct from interest expense interest incurred on major construction and information technology projects. There was no capitalized interest on major projects in 2010. Interest paid on long-term debt was $49 million in 2010.
Note 5  Financial Assets and Nonrecourse Financial Liabilities of Special Purpose Entities
In October 2007, we sold 1.55 million acres of timberland for $2.38 billion. The total consideration consisted almost entirely of notes due in 2027 issued by the buyer of the timberland, which we contributed to two wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote special purpose entities formed by us. The notes are secured by $2.38 billion of irrevocable letters of credit issued by four banks, which are required to maintain minimum credit ratings on their long-term debt. The letters of credit are secured by the buyer's long-term deposit with the banks of $2.38 billion of cash and cash equivalents. The notes require quarterly interest payments based on variable interest rates that reset quarterly (0.33 percent at year-end 2010). Average interest rate on these notes receivable was 0.38 percent for 2010. We recognized interest income of $9 million on these notes receivable in 2010. We received interest payments of $9 million on these notes receivable in 2010.
In December 2007, our two wholly-owned special purpose entities borrowed $2.14 billion. The loans are repayable in 2027 and are secured only by the $2.38 billion of notes and the irrevocable letters of credit securing the notes and are nonrecourse to us. The loan agreements provide that if a credit rating of any of the banks issuing the letters of credit is downgraded below the required minimum, the letters of credit issued by that bank must be replaced within 30 days with letters of credit from another qualifying financial institution. The borrowings require quarterly interest payments based on variable interest rates that reset daily (0.92 percent at year-end 2010). Average interest rate on these notes payable was 0.91 percent for 2010. We recognized $20 million of interest expense on these nonrecourse loans in 2010. We paid $20 million of interest on these nonrecourse loans in 2010.
The buyer of the timberland issued the $2.38 billion in notes from its wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote special purpose entities. The buyer's special purpose entities held the timberland from the transaction date until November 2008, at which time the timberland was transferred out of the buyer's special purpose entities. Due to the transfer of the timberland, we evaluated the buyer's special purpose entities and determined that they were variable interest entities and that we were the primary beneficiary. As a result, in 2008 we began consolidating the buyer's special purpose entities.
In 2010, we entered into two separate three-year agreements, one with JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association and one with Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank whereby each of these banks agrees to issue up to $1.4 billion in irrevocable letters of credit in substitution for letters of credit issued by a bank whose credit ratings get reduced below the required minimums. For each agreement, we paid an upfront fee, which is being amortized over the three-year term of the agreement, and also agreed to pay a quarterly fee on the unused commitment. The aggregate expense related to the amortization of the upfront fees and the quarterly fees for both agreements totaled about $4 million for 2010. Since these agreements protect the value of the $2.38 billion in notes, we recognize their costs as a reduction to Interest income on financial assets of special purpose entities in our consolidated statements of income.
We include the assets and liabilities of these special purpose entities in our consolidated balance sheets under the captions, Financial Assets of Special Purpose Entities and Nonrecourse Financial Liabilities of Special
 
 
Purpose Entities. We include the results of operations of these special purpose entities in our consolidated statements of income under the captions, Interest income on financial assets of special purpose entities and Interest expense on nonrecourse financial liabilities of special purpose entities.
Note 6  Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations
Our asset retirement and environmental obligations are:
 
All of our asset retirement and environmental obligations are classified as other long-term liabilities.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending aggregate carrying amount of asset retirement obligations follows:
 
Note 7  Capital Stock
In 2006 and 2007, our Board of Directors approved repurchase programs aggregating 11.0 million shares. As of year-end 2010, we had purchased 4.4 million shares under these programs resulting in 6.6 million shares remaining to be purchased. We did not purchase any shares under these programs in 2010.
Note 8  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The components of and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were:
 
 
 
Note 9  Pension and Postretirement Plans
Pension and postretirement plans expense consists of:
 
Our 401(k) plans cover substantially all employees and are fully funded.
Our defined benefit plan covers substantially all employees. Salaried and nonunion hourly employee benefits are based on compensation and years of service, while union hourly plans are based on negotiated benefits and years of service. Our policy is to fund our qualified defined benefit plan on an actuarial basis to accumulate assets sufficient to meet the benefits to be paid in accordance with ERISA requirements. However, from time to time we have made voluntary, discretionary contributions. Our supplemental defined benefit plan is unfunded.
Our postretirement medical plan provides medical benefits to eligible salaried and hourly employees who begin drawing retirement benefits immediately after termination of employment. Our postretirement plan provides for medical coverage, including a prescription drug subsidy, for certain participants. We fund postretirement plan benefits as paid. The estimated future postretirement plan liability is unfunded.
Additional information about our defined benefit and postretirement medical plans follows.
Obligations and Funded Status
A summary of the changes in the benefit obligation, plan assets, and funded status follows:
 
 
 
Assets and (liabilities) included in the consolidated balance sheet and reconciliation to funded status follows:
 
Plan Assets
Our defined benefit investment strategies have been developed as part of a comprehensive asset/liability management process that considers the interaction between assets and liabilities of the plan. These strategies consider not only the expected risk and returns on plan assets, but also the detailed actuarial projections of liabilities as well as plan-level objectives such as projected contributions, expense, and funded status.
Our asset allocation strategy matches the duration of about 80 percent of our pension assets to our pension liabilities and also matches the overall credit quality of the pension assets to the implied credit quality of the yield curve used to discount our liabilities. This matched approach reduces the volatility of our defined benefit expense and our funding requirements. The remaining plan assets are targeted to be invested in assets that provide market exposure to mitigate the effects of inflation, mortality and actuarial risks. The defined benefit plan weighted-average asset allocations and the range of target allocations follow:
 
Equity securities include 591,896 shares of Temple-Inland common stock totaling $13 million or 1.0 percent of total plan assets at year-end 2010.
 
 
The fair value of our qualified defined benefit plan assets for each valuation hierarchy (See ) is as follows:
Note 16
 
Level 3 defined benefit plan assets principally consists of real estate partnership and private equity investments, which are not readily marketable and are valued by the general partners. A summary of changes in the fair value of our Level 3 assets follows:
 
Accumulated Benefit Obligation
The accumulated benefit obligation of our defined benefit plan represents the present value of benefits earned without regard to projected future compensation increases. Our defined benefit plans have an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets as follows:
 
 
 
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Expense and Other Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income
 
In addition, we recognized expense of $4 million in 2010 related to payments of lump-sum benefits from our supplemental defined benefit plan.
Assumptions
The assumptions we used to determine our defined benefit and postretirement obligations were:
 
The assumptions we used to determine our annual net periodic benefit expense were:
 
The discount rate we use to determine the present value of the benefit obligation is the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. We believe the use of the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve reasonably reflects changes in the present value of our defined benefit plan obligation because each year's cash flow is discretely discounted at a rate at which it could effectively be settled.
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is an assumption we make reflecting the anticipated weighted average rate of earnings on the plan assets over the long-term. In selecting that rate particular consideration is given to our asset allocation. For the plan assets invested in debt securities, we used the AA credit risk profile of the discount rate plus a 25 basis point yield premium to reflect the single A credit risk profile of our debt securities. For the remaining plan assets, we used target-weighted returns generated from current asset models. We add a ten basis point active management premium to the total rate of return because the real estate and matched portfolios are actively managed. Our actual return on plan assets was 12.5 percent in 2010.
 
 
We use the 1994 Group Annuity Mortality Tables to determine our benefit obligation and annual defined benefit expense.
The assumed health care cost trend rates we used to determine the expense of the postretirement benefit plan were:
 
These assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement benefit plans. For example, a one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effect:
 
Cash Flows
Due to credit balances we have accumulated from our voluntary, discretionary contributions in prior years, we anticipate having no funding requirements under ERISA in 2011. Benefits earned under the supplemental defined benefit plan are paid upon retirement or when the employee terminates. Our supplemental defined benefit plan payments to retirees totaled $10 million in 2010.
The postretirement benefit plan is not subject to minimum regulatory funding requirements. Since the postretirement benefit plans are unfunded, the expected $10 million contribution in 2011 represents the estimated health claims to be paid for plan participants, net of retiree contributions and Medicare subsidies.
At year-end 2010, the plans are expected to make benefit payments and receive Medicare subsidies over the next ten years as follows:
 
Note 10  Share-Based and Long-Term Incentive Compensation
We have shareholder approved share-based compensation plans that permit awards to key employees and non-employee directors in the form of cash-settled restricted or performance stock units, stock-settled restricted stock units, or options to purchase shares of our common stock. We also have long-term incentives for key employees in the form of fixed value awards that vest over multiple years.
 
 
We generally grant awards annually in February, and we use treasury stock to fulfill awards settled in common stock and stock option exercises. A summary of these plans follows:
Cash-settled Restricted or Performance Units
Cash-settled restricted or performance units generally have a three-year term; vest after three years from the date of grant or the attainment of stated ROI based performance goals, generally measured over a three-year period; and are settled in cash as determined on the date of grant. The restricted and performance units provide for accelerated or continued vesting upon retirement, death, disability, or if there is a change in control.
A summary of activity for 2010 follows:
 
Unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to non-vested cash-settled restricted and performance units was $18 million at year-end 2010 share price of $21 per share. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of two years. The fair value of units vested and to be settled in cash, including accrued dividends of $2 million, was $40 million at year-end 2010, of which $14 million is included in other current liabilities and $26 million in long-term liabilities. The fair value of awards settled in cash was $18 million in 2010.
Stock-settled Restricted Stock Units
Stock-settled restricted stock units generally vest after three years from the date of the grant upon attainment of stated ROI-based performance goals. There is no accelerated vesting upon retirement for these awards and cumulative dividends on these awards will be paid at the time of vesting if the stated ROI-based performance goals are met.
 
 
A summary of activity for 2010 follows:
 
Unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock-settled restricted units was $5 million at year-end 2010. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of two years.
Stock Options
Stock options have a ten-year term, generally become exercisable ratably over four years and provide for accelerated or continued vesting upon retirement, death, disability, or if there is a change in control. Options are granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of our common stock on the date of grant.
A summary of activity for 2010 follows:
 
The intrinsic value of options exercised was $5 million in 2010. Unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock option awards was $5 million at year-end 2010. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of three years.
We estimated the fair value of the options granted using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model and the following assumptions:
 
The expected dividend yield is calculated based on our historical annual dividend payments. The expected stock price volatility is based on historical prices of our common stock for a period corresponding to the expected life of
 
 
the options with appropriate consideration given to current conditions and events. The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury securities in effect at the date of the grant of the stock options. The expected life of options is based on historical experience. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting forfeitures stratified into two groups based on job level.
Fixed Value Cash Awards
Long-term incentive compensation expense is related to $18 million of fixed value cash awards that were granted to employees in February and August 2009. These awards are not tied to our stock price. The fixed value cash awards generally vest over periods from three to six years and provide for accelerated or continued vesting upon retirement, death, disability, or if there is a change in control.
Unrecognized long-term incentive compensation expense related to fixed value cash awards was $8 million at year-end 2010. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of three years. At year-end 2010, accrued long-term incentive compensation included in other long-term liabilities was $10 million.
Share-Based and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Expense
Share-based and long-term incentive compensation expense (income) consists of:
 
Share-based and long-term incentive compensation expense is included in:
 
The fair value of awards granted to retirement-eligible employees and expensed at the date of grant was $3 million in 2010.
Unrecognized share-based and long-term incentive compensation for all awards not vested was $36 million at year-end 2010. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted-average period of two years.
 
 
Note 11  Other Operating Income (Expense)
 
The Internal Revenue Code allowed for an excise tax credit for alternative fuel mixtures produced for sale or for use in a trade or business, which expired on December 31, 2009. In 2009, we generated and claimed alternative fuel mixture tax credits of $228 million, of which we recognized $218 million and provided a $10 million reserve due to an uncertainty in the tax law regarding whether a portion of the alternative fuel we used would qualify for the tax credit. In 2010, the Internal Revenue Service clarified this uncertainty allowing us to recognize the $10 million previously reserved.
We continue our efforts to enhance return on investment by lowering costs, improving operating efficiencies, and increasing asset utilization. As a result, we continue to review operations that are unable to meet return objectives and determine appropriate courses of action, including possibly consolidating and closing facilities. In connection with the second phase of our box plant transformation, in 2010, we closed our Santa Fe Springs, California sheet plant and our Phoenix, Arizona; Evansville, Indiana; and Scranton, Pennsylvania box plants. In addition, we announced the closure of our Carol Stream, Illinois box plant, which is expected to close in second quarter 2011. In connection with box plant transformation activities, we recognized asset impairment charges of $14 million, severance and other employee costs of $2 million, and other transformation related costs of $9 million.
Activity within our accruals for exit costs was:
 
 
 
Note 12  Income Taxes
Income tax benefit (expense) on income before taxes consists of:
 
Income before taxes consists of:
 
A reconciliation of income taxes at the federal statutory rate and income tax benefit (expense) on income before taxes follows:
 
In 2010, the IRS provided clarification to the effect that black liquor, a by-product of the paper making process, produced and used as a fuel in 2009 by a registered producer qualifies for the $1.01 per gallon taxable, non-refundable cellulosic biofuel producer credit. This credit may be used to offset federal income taxes payable, subject to certain limitations. Our registration as a producer of cellulosic biofuel was approved on August 16, 2010. The IRS also clarified that cellulosic biofuel produced before registration may be claimed and that a producer may not claim both the cellulosic biofuel producer credit and the alternative fuel mixture tax credit for the same volume of black liquor. However, both alternative fuel mixture tax credits and cellulosic biofuel producer credits can be claimed in the same taxable year for different volumes of black liquor. As a result, in 2010 we recognized an income tax benefit of $83 million related to cellulosic biofuel producer credits that we earned on black liquor produced and used in 2009 prior to our producing an alternative fuel mixture.
In 2010, we also recorded a one-time tax expense of $3 million due to the elimination of the tax deduction for drug expenses reimbursed under the Medicare Part D subsidy program.
 
 
Significant components of deferred taxes are:
 
The net deferred tax liability is classified on our balance sheet as follows:
 
Our deferred taxes on timberlands and our alternative minimum tax credits primarily relate to the gain on the sale of our strategic timberland, which was deferred for income tax purposes. Our alternative minimum tax credits can be carried forward indefinitely. Our cellulosic biofuel producer credits will expire in 2015. Our foreign and state net operating loss carry-forwards and credits will expire from 2011 through 2028. A valuation allowance is provided for certain of these foreign and state net operating loss carry-forwards and credits. The decrease in the valuation allowance in 2010 was primarily due to the release of allowance on state net operating loss carry-forwards, which we now expect to utilize.
We file U.S. federal income tax returns and income tax returns in various states and foreign jurisdictions. In 2009, the Internal Revenue Service opened an examination of our 2006 through 2008 income tax returns. This examination is proceeding. We are no longer subject to examination by state or foreign tax authorities for years before 2000. We have various income tax audits in process at year-end 2010, and we do not expect that the resolution of these matters will have a significant effect on our earnings or financial position.
A reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits follows:
 
 
 
Of the $107 million of unrecognized tax benefits at year-end 2010, $95 million would affect our effective tax rate if recognized. Interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits is included in income tax expense. Unrecognized tax benefits include approximately $3 million of accrued interest and no penalties. We do not expect material changes to our tax reserve during the next 12 months.
Note 13  Litigation
We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of doing business and believe that adequate reserves have been established for any probable losses. Expenses related to litigation are included in operating income.
On September 9, 2010, we were one of eight containerboard producers named as defendants in a class action complaint that alleged a civil violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The suit is captioned . The complaint alleges that the defendants, beginning in August 2005, conspired to limit the supply and thereby increase prices of containerboard products. The alleged class is all persons who purchased containerboard products directly from any defendant for use or delivery in the United States during the period August 2005 to the present. The complaint seeks to recover an unspecified amount of treble actual damages and attorney's fees on behalf of the purported class. Four similar complaints were filed and have been consolidated in the Northern District of Illinois. We strongly dispute the allegations made against us and intend to defend vigorously against this litigation. However, because this action is in its preliminary stages, we are unable to predict an outcome or estimate a range of reasonably possible loss.
Kleen Products LLC v. Packaging Corp. of America (N.D. Ill.)
In addition, in 2010 we closed our Phoenix, Arizona box plant. Certain of the plant's employees participated in a multi-employer pension plan. We may incur a claim for additional contributions due to the plan's unfunded pension obligations. At this time we are unable to predict if such a claim will be made and if so, the amount that might be claimed.
We do not believe that the outcome of any of these proceedings should have a significant adverse effect on our financial position, long-term results of operations, or cash flows. It is possible however that charges related to these matters could be significant to our results or cash flows in any one accounting period.
Note 14  Commitments and Other Contingencies
We lease manufacturing and other facilities and equipment under operating lease agreements. Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases having a remaining term in excess of one year are:
 
Total rent expense was $48 million in 2010. In 2007, we recorded an impairment charge related to a long-term operating lease. This charge did not affect our continuing obligations under the lease, including paying rent and maintaining the equipment. The present value of the future payments is included on our balance sheet, of which $7 million is included in current liabilities and $41 million in other long-term liabilities at year-end 2010.
We also lease two production facilities under sale-lease back transactions with two municipalities. The municipalities purchased the production facilities from us in 1992 and 1995 for $188 million, our carrying value, and we leased the facilities back from the municipalities under capital lease agreements, which expire in 2022 and
 
 
2025. Concurrently, we purchased $188 million of interest-bearing bonds issued by these municipalities. The bonds have terms that are identical to the lease terms, are secured by payments under the capital lease obligations, and the municipalities are obligated only to the extent the underlying lease payments are made by us. The interest rates implicit in the leases are the same as the interest rates on the bonds. As a result, the present value of the capital lease obligations is $188 million, the same as the principal amount of the bonds. Because there is no legal right of offset, the bonds are included in other assets at their cost of $188 million and the $188 million present value of the capital lease obligations are included in other long-term liabilities. The implicit interest expense on the leases and the interest income on the bonds are included in other non-operating income (expense). There is no net effect from these transactions as we are in substance both the obligor on, and the holder of, the bonds.
At year-end 2010, we had unconditional purchase obligations, principally for sawtimber, pulpwood, gypsum, and to a lesser extent major capital expenditures, aggregating $1.5 billion that will be paid over the next twenty-two years. This includes $1.1 billion related to fiber supply agreements for pulpwood and sawtimber. These purchase obligations are valued using minimum required purchase commitments at year-end 2010 market prices. However, our actual purchases may exceed our minimum commitments and will be at the then current market prices. Through year-end 2010, our purchases under these contracts have exceeded the minimum requirements. As a result, we have no liability for unfulfilled commitments.
In connection with our Del-Tin joint venture operation, we have guaranteed debt of $15 million at year-end 2010. Generally we would fund this guarantee for lack of specific performance by the joint venture, such as non-payment of debt.
Note 15  Derivative Instruments and Variable Interest Entities
From time to time we use commodity derivative instruments to mitigate our exposure to changes in product pricing and manufacturing costs. These instruments cover a small portion of our volume. At year-end 2010, we did not have any significant commodity derivative instruments.
In 1999, we entered into an agreement to lease particleboard and medium density fiberboard facilities in Mt. Jewett, Pennsylvania. The lease is for 20 years and includes fixed price purchase options in 2014 and at the end of the lease. The option prices were intended to approximate the estimated fair values of the facilities at those dates and do not represent a guarantee of the facilities' residual values. After exhaustive efforts, we were unable to determine whether the lease is with a variable interest entity or if there is a primary beneficiary because the unrelated third-party lessor will not provide the necessary financial information. We account for the lease as an operating lease, and at year-end 2010 our financial interest was limited to our obligation to make the remaining $109 million of contractual lease payments, approximately $12 million per year. In 2007, we recorded an impairment charge for the portion of the long-term operating lease related to the particleboard facility. As a result, $48 million of our future operating lease payments are included on our balance sheet at year-end 2010.
Note 16  Fair Values and Fair Value Measurements of Financial Instruments
Fair value measures are classified into a three-tiered fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair values as follows:
 
 
 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are based on one or more of the following valuation techniques:
 
We elected not to use the fair value option for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, other current assets, accounts payable, other current liabilities, long-term debt, and financial assets and nonrecourse financial liabilities of special purpose entities. With the exception of long-term debt, the carrying amounts of these financial instruments approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature or variable interest rates.
Information about our fixed rate long-term debt that is not measured at fair value follows:
 
Differences between carrying value and fair value of our long-term debt are primarily due to instruments that provide fixed interest rates or contain fixed interest rate elements. Inherently, such instruments are subject to fluctuations in fair value due to subsequent movements in interest rates. At year-end 2010, we had guaranteed joint venture obligations principally related to fixed-rate debt instruments and letters of credit totaling $15 million. The estimated fair value of these guarantees is not significant.
Note 17  Earnings per Share
We compute earnings per share by dividing income by weighted average shares outstanding using the following:
 
Participating securities include unvested cash-settled restricted stock units issued to employees that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends. These units are scheduled to vest in first quarter 2011.
At year-end 2010, 1,347,308 stock options outstanding held by our employees and 279,112 stock options outstanding held by employees of spun-off entities were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive.
 
 
Certain employees of our spun-off entities participated in our employee stock option program. Following the spin-offs, these employees retained stock option rights associated with our stock. These stock options will remain a consideration in our dilutive effect of stock options until they are exercised, cancelled or expire. Information regarding options held by employees of spun-off entities follows:
 
Note 18  Segment Information
We have two business segments: corrugated packaging and building products. Corrugated packaging manufactures linerboard, corrugating medium, and white-top linerboard (collectively referred to as containerboard), that we convert into corrugated packaging and light-weight gypsum facing paper. Building products manufactures a variety of building products.
We evaluate segment performance based on operating income before items not included in segments and income taxes. Items not included in segments represent items managed on a company-wide basis and include corporate general and administrative expense, share-based and long-term incentive compensation, other operating and non-operating income (expense), and interest expense. Other operating income (expense) includes gain or loss on sale of assets, asset impairments, and unusual income or expense. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the accounting policy notes to the financial statements. Intersegment sales are recorded at market prices. Intersegment sales and business support expense allocations are netted in costs and expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
Revenues and property and equipment based on geographic location were:
 
Note 19  Summary of Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)
Selected quarterly financial results for 2010 follows:
 
 
 
Note 20  Subsequent Events
On February 4, 2011, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share payable on March 15, 2011.
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Temple-Inland Inc.:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Temple-Inland Inc. and subsidiaries as of January 1, 2011 and the related consolidated statement of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for the year ended January 1, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Temple-Inland Inc. and subsidiaries at January 1, 2011, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the year ended January 1, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Austin, Texas
February 22, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Presentation
Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Temple-Inland Inc. and its subsidiaries and special purpose and variable interest entities of which it is the primary beneficiary. We account for our investment in other ventures under the equity method.
We prepare our unaudited interim financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and Securities and Exchange Commission requirements for interim financial statements. As a result, they do not include all of the information and disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. However, in our opinion, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. These adjustments are normal recurring accruals, except as noted. These interim operating results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year. For further information, please read the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 2010.
Note 2  Accounting Pronouncements
We have evaluated all recently issued accounting pronouncements through the filing date of these financial statements and believe that none of these accounting pronouncements will have a material effect on our earnings or financial position.
Note 3  Merger Agreement
On September 6, 2011, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) with International Paper Company (IP), under which IP will acquire all of our outstanding common stock for $32.00 per share in cash. The Merger Agreement was unanimously approved by both our and IP's Board of Directors.
In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, IP terminated its existing tender offer to acquire all our outstanding common stock for $30.60 per share, and we amended our Rights Plan dated June 7, 2011, rendering the Rights Plan inapplicable to the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby.
Closing of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals and approval by our stockholders. IP has stated that the merger is currently expected to close late in the fourth quarter of 2011 or early in the first quarter of 2012, although closing may take place either earlier or later than such time period.
In connection with these matters, in first nine months 2011, we expensed $10 million of professional fees and other costs, and we committed to minimum financial advisor fees of $20 million, which we anticipate expensing upon completion of the merger. Also in connection with the closing of the merger, we expect to incur significant additional costs, principally related to share-based compensation and change in control agreements.
 
 
Note 4  Employee Benefit Plans
Defined benefit and postretirement benefit expense consists of:
 
In addition, we recognized expense of $3 million in first nine months 2011 and $4 million in first nine months 2010 related to payments to retiring employees of lump-sum benefits from our supplemental defined benefit plan. We made $30 million in voluntary, discretionary contributions to our qualified defined benefit plan in first nine months 2010.
Note 5  Share-Based and Long-Term Incentive Compensation
We have shareholder approved share-based compensation plans that permit awards to key employees and non-employee directors in the form of cash-settled restricted or performance stock units, stock-settled restricted stock units, or options to purchase shares of our common stock. We also have long-term incentives for key employees in the form of fixed value awards that vest over multiple years. We generally grant awards annually in February, and we use treasury stock to fulfill awards settled in common stock and stock option exercises.
Share-based and long-term incentive compensation expense consists of:
 
 
 
Share-based and long-term incentive compensation expense is included in:
 
The fair value of awards granted to retirement-eligible employees and expensed at the date of grant was $4 million in first nine months 2011 and $3 million in first nine months 2010.
Unrecognized share-based and long-term incentive compensation for all awards not vested was $37 million at third quarter-end 2011. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of two years or upon completion of the merger.
The fair value of all share-based and long-term incentive awards vested and to be settled in cash, including accrued dividends of $2 million, was $90 million at third quarter-end 2011, of which $52 million is included in other current liabilities and $38 million in long-term liabilities, and $64 million at year-end 2010, of which $14 million is included in other current liabilities and $50 million in long-term liabilities.
Cash-settled restricted or performance stock units
Cash-settled restricted or performance stock units generally have a three-year term and vest after three years from the date of grant or the attainment of stated ROI-based performance goals, generally measured over a three-year period, or if there is a change of control, such as the merger. Changes in our estimate of the attainment of stated performance goals could have a significant impact on our share-based compensation expense in any one accounting period.
A summary of activity for first nine months 2011 follows:
 
Unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to non-vested cash-settled restricted or performance stock units was $18 million at third quarter-end 2011 share price of $31 per share. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of two years or upon completion of the merger. The fair value of awards settled in cash was $17 million in first nine months 2011 and $17 million in first nine months 2010. The fair value of units vested and to be settled in cash, including accrued dividends of $2 million in 2011 and $1 million in 2010, was $57 million at third quarter-end 2011, of which $41 million is included in other current liabilities and $16 million in long-term liabilities; and $40 million at year-end 2010, of which $14 million was included in other current liabilities and $26 million in long-term liabilities. In addition, approximately one-half of our annual director compensation is paid in the form of cash-settled restricted stock units that are deferred until retirement. The fair value of these units vested and to be settled in cash included in long-term liabilities was $20 million at third quarter-end 2011 and $14 million at year-end 2010.
 
 
Stock-settled restricted stock units
Stock-settled restricted stock units vest after three years from the date of grant upon attainment of stated ROI-based performance goals or if there is a change of control, such as the merger. There is no accelerated vesting upon retirement for these awards.
A summary of activity for first nine months 2011 follows:
 
Unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock-settled restricted stock units was $8 million at third quarter-end 2011. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of two years or upon completion of the merger.
Stock options
Stock options have a ten-year term, generally become exercisable ratably over four years and provide for accelerated vesting upon retirement, death, disability, or if there is a change in control, such as the merger. Options are granted with an option price equal to the market value of common stock on the date of grant.
A summary of activity for first nine months 2011 follows:
 
 
 
We estimated the fair value of our options using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model and the following assumptions:
 
Unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options awards was $6 million at third quarter-end 2011. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of three years or upon completion of the merger.
Fixed Value Cash Awards
Long-term incentive compensation expense is related to $18 million of fixed value cash awards that were granted to employees in February and August 2009. These awards are not tied to our stock price. The fixed value cash awards generally vest over periods from three to six years and provide for accelerated or continued vesting upon retirement, death, disability, or if there is a change of control, such as the merger.
Unrecognized long-term incentive compensation expense related to fixed value cash awards was $5 million at third quarter-end 2011. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of three years or upon completion of the merger. Accrued long-term incentive compensation at third quarter-end 2011 was $13 million, of which $11 million is included in other current liabilities and $2 million in long-term liabilities. At year-end 2010, accrued long-term incentive compensation included in long-term liabilities was $10 million.
Note 6  Other Operating Income (Expense)
 
In connection with the second phase of our box plant transformation initiative, in first nine months 2011, we closed our box plants in Tampa, Florida, and Carol Stream and Northlake, Illinois, and began production at our new box plant in Aurora, Illinois. Costs related to box plant transformation in first nine months 2011, included a multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liability of $4 million associated with our 2010 closure of our Phoenix, Arizona box plant, asset impairment charges of $6 million, severance costs of $2 million, and other transformation related costs of $16 million, primarily related to duplicate and incremental costs associated with production affected by box plant transformation. We also recognized a $2 million gain from the sale of closed facilities. In first nine months 2010, costs related to box plant transformation included asset impairment charges of $9 million, severance and other employee costs of $2 million, and other closure costs of $6 million.
 
 
Activity within our accruals for box plant transformation activities follows:
 
In first quarter 2010, the Internal Revenue Service clarified an uncertainty regarding whether a portion of the alternative fuel we claimed in 2009 would qualify for the alternative fuel mixture tax credit. As a result, in first nine months 2010 we reversed a related reserve of $10 million.
Note 7  Non-operating Income (Expense)
Other non-operating income (expense) in first nine months 2011 consisted of a $4 million loss resulting from the purchase and retirement of $50 million of our 7.875% Senior Notes due 2012, and an expense of $1 million associated with the voluntary substitution of Rabobank replacing Royal Bank of Scotland PLC as a letter of credit issuer to secure the notes related to the 2007 sale of our timberland. Please read for additional information.
Note 10
Note 8  Earnings per Share
We computed earnings per share by dividing net income by weighted average shares outstanding using the following:
 
Participating securities include unvested cash-settled restricted stock units issued to employees that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends. These units vested in first quarter 2011. There are no participating securities outstanding at third quarter-end 2011.
 
 
Certain employees of entities spun off in 2007 participated in our employee stock option program. Following the spin-offs, these employees retained stock option rights associated with our stock. These stock options will remain a consideration in our dilutive effect of stock options until they are exercised, cancelled or expire. Information regarding options held by employees of spun-off entities follows:
 
Stock options outstanding that were not included in the computation of diluted common shares outstanding because their exercise price exceeded the average market price of our common stock were as follows:
 
Note 9  Long-Term Debt
At third quarter-end 2011, our long-term debt was $657 million, which included $130 million of 7.875% Senior Notes that are due May 2012. We have classified these borrowings as long-term debt because of our intent and ability to refinance them on a long-term basis under our existing facilities.
In September 2011, we entered into amendments of our committed credit agreements so that entering into the Merger Agreement did not result in a default.
Note 10  Financial Assets and Nonrecourse Financial Liabilities of Special Purpose Entities
In 2009, we arranged for the substitution of two banks issuing letters of credit securing the notes we received in connection with the 2007 sale of our timberland. In each case, the credit ratings of the letter of credit bank had been reduced below the required minimums. In first six months 2010, we entered into two separate three-year agreements, one with JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association and one with Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank (Crdit Agricole), whereby each of these banks agrees to issue up to $1.4 billion in irrevocable letters of credit in substitution for letters of credit issued by a bank(s) whose credit ratings get reduced below the required minimums. For each agreement, we paid an upfront fee, which is being amortized over the three-year term of the agreement, and also agreed to pay a quarterly fee on the unused commitment.
On May 20, 2011, the credit ratings of Crdit Agricole were downgraded below the required minimum to issue letters of credit to secure the notes related to the sale of our timberland. As a result, we terminated our three-year agreement with Crdit Agricole and were refunded a pro-rata portion of the unamortized upfront commitment fee and quarterly fee on the unused commitment.
On August 11, 2011, the buyer of the timberland and we agreed to have Rabobank Nederland (Rabobank), one of the existing letter of credit banks, issue letters of credit in a voluntary substitution for Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) as a letter of credit issuer in the transaction. Accordingly, the letters of credit issuers are now Rabobank, which has issued letters of credit totaling about $1.4 billion, and Barclays Bank plc and Socit General, each of which has issued letters of credit totaling about $500 million.
 
 
In connection with this voluntary substitution of Rabobank replacing RBS, we paid fees of $1 million to RBS and received an upfront fee of $7 million from Rabobank. If Rabobank's long-term unsecured senior debt were no longer rated A+ by Standard & Poor's and A1 by Moody's, we have agreed to refund to Rabobank on the date of the downgrade the unamortized upfront fees less about $2 million. We will amortize the upfront fee that we received, net of legal expenses incurred on this voluntary substitution, over the term of the letter of credit agreement. The amortization credit will be included in "Interest income on financial assets of special purpose entities."
Note 11  Shareholders' Equity
A summary of changes in total shareholders' equity follows:
 
Comprehensive income (loss) was $(3) million for third quarter 2011 and $132 million for third quarter 2010. We issued 1,683,982 and 436,092 shares of common stock in first nine months 2011 and 2010 to employees exercising options and for vesting of share-settled units.
On June 7, 2011, our Board of Directors adopted the Rights Plan and declared a dividend of one Right for each outstanding share of Temple-Inland common stock. On September 6, 2011, our Board of Directors amended our Rights Plan, rendering it inapplicable to the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. Read for additional information.
Note 3
Note 12  Segment Information
We have two business segments: corrugated packaging and building products. Corrugated packaging manufactures linerboard and corrugating medium (collectively referred to as containerboard), which we convert into corrugated packaging, and lightweight gypsum facing paper. Building products manufactures a variety of building products.
We evaluate performance based on operating income before items not included in segments and income taxes. Items not included in segments represent items managed on a company-wide basis and include corporate general and administrative expense, share-based and long-term incentive compensation, other operating and non-operating income (expense), and interest income and expense. Other operating income (expense) includes gain or loss on sale of assets, asset impairments, closure related severance costs, and unusual income and expense items. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the accounting policy notes to the financial statements. Intersegment sales are recorded at market prices. Intersegment sales and shared service expense allocations are netted in costs and expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
Note 13  Fair Values and Fair Value Measurements of Financial Instruments
Information about our fixed-rate, long-term debt that is not measured at fair value follows:
 
Differences between carrying value and fair value are primarily due to instruments that provide fixed interest rates or contain fixed interest rate elements. Inherently, such instruments are subject to fluctuations in fair value due to subsequent movements in interest rates. We excluded financial instruments from the table that are either carried at fair value or have fair values that approximate their carrying amount due to their short-term nature or variable interest rates.
Note 14  Contingencies and Other
We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of doing business and believe that adequate reserves have been established for any probable losses. Expenses related to litigation are included in operating income.
On September 9, 2010, we were one of eight containerboard producers named as defendants in a class action complaint that alleged a civil violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The suit is captioned . The complaint alleges that the defendants, beginning in August 2005, conspired to limit the supply and thereby increase prices of containerboard products. The alleged class is all persons who purchased containerboard products directly from any defendant for use or delivery in the United States during the period August 2005 to November 2010. The complaint seeks to recover an unspecified amount of treble actual damages and attorney's fees on behalf of the purported class. Four similar complaints were filed and have been consolidated in the Northern District of Illinois. We dispute the allegations made against us and intend to defend vigorously against this litigation. However, because this action is in its preliminary stages, we are unable to predict an outcome or estimate a range of reasonably possible loss. There were no significant changes to the status of this litigation in first nine months 2011.
Kleen Products LLC v. Packaging Corp. of America (N.D. Ill.)
Three putative class action lawsuits have been commenced by purported Temple-Inland stockholders against Temple-Inland and the members of the Temple-Inland Board. Two of these lawsuits, captioned , Case No. 6690 (filed July 22, 2011) (the "Raul Action"), and , et al., Case No. 6702 (filed July 25,
Raul v. Doyle R. Simons, et al.
Kahn v. Temple-Inland, Inc.
 
 
2011) (the "Kahn Action"), are pending in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Pursuant to an order dated August 5, 2011, the Raul Action and the Kahn Action were consolidated, with the consolidated action captioned as , Consolidated Case No. 6702-VCP. The third putative class action lawsuit, captioned , Case No. D-1-GN-11-2456 (filed August 16, 2011) (the "Washtenaw Action"), is pending in the District Court of Travis County, Texas.
In re Temple-Inland, Inc. Shareholders Litigation
Washtenaw County Employees' Retirement System v. Doyle R. Simons, et al.
These lawsuits allege, among other things, that the members of the Temple-Inland Board have breached their fiduciary duties by refusing to negotiate with IP regarding its proposed acquisition of Temple-Inland, failing to solicit alternative offers and adopting the Rights Plan. The Raul Action and the Washtenaw Action also purport to assert claims derivatively on behalf of Temple-Inland. The complaints variously seek an order declaring that the Temple-Inland Board breached its fiduciary duties; enjoining the company from initiating defensive measures; and awarding costs and attorneys' fees and, in the Kahn Action, compensatory damages. These lawsuits were commenced prior to the entering into of the Merger Agreement.
A fourth putative class action lawsuit, (filed September 14, 2011), has been filed in the consolidated action cited above. This lawsuit alleges, among other things, that the members of the Temple-Inland Board have breached their fiduciary duties by agreeing to a transaction with IP at an unfair and grossly inadequate price and that the proxy statement filed in connection with the transaction with IP is inadequate in certain respects.
Buxton v. Temple-Inland Inc.
We believe all the claims in these putative shareholder class actions are without merit, and we intend to defend them vigorously. Please read for additional information.
Note 3
As we recently disclosed, the Company was named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas captioned , Case 3:11-cv-02088-D (filed August 22, 2011). This lawsuit alleges, among other things, that the Company and certain of its affiliates, officers, and directors caused the failure of Guaranty Financial Group and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Guaranty Bank, and asserts various claims related to the failure. We previously disclosed that the liquidating trustee may file such a claim against us. We believe the claims made in this lawsuit are without merit, and we intend to defend them vigorously.
Tepper v. Temple-Inland Inc.
On Saturday, August 13, 2011, we received predictive test results at our Bogalusa, Louisiana paper mill indicating that Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) limits for permitted discharge from the wastewater treatment pond into the Pearl River would be exceeded after an upset condition in an evaporator at the mill and confirmed reports of a fish kill on the Pearl River (the "Bogalusa Incident"). We promptly initiated a full mill shut down, notified the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) of the situation and took corrective actions to restore the water quality of the river. On September 2, 2011, we restarted our Bogalusa mill operations upon receiving approval from the LDEQ. We incurred $5 million in costs related to these clean-up activities and it is likely that we will incur additional costs related to this incident. The LDEQ and the Mississippi DEQ have each given a notice of intent to levy penalties. The U.S. Attorney's Office in New Orleans has issued a grand jury subpoena and EPA and various state agencies have initiated investigations into the Bogalusa Incident. At this early stage in these proceedings, we are not able to estimate any potential fines or penalties that may be levied against us in connection with the Bogalusa Incident. We do not expect that any such fines or penalties will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, long-term results of operations, or cash flows, but they may be significant to our results or cash flows in any one accounting period.
We have been named as a defendant in the following civil lawsuits related to the Bogalusa Incident:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other than the case brought by the State of Louisiana and the case brought in Mississippi, these civil cases have been removed and consolidated in an action pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana along with a case originally filed in that court styled (filed September 20, 2011). Additional lawsuits may be filed in connection with the Bogalusa Incident following the date of this report. At this early stage, we are not able to estimate any potential loss from these proceedings. However, we believe most of the claims have no merit, and we do not expect that any losses in these cases will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, long-term results of operations, or cash flows.
McGehee v. TIN Inc.
In first nine months 2011, we reversed $3 million in litigation reserves related to alleged violations of the California on duty meal break laws. This reversal was based on the settlement of existing cases, a review of our operational practices, and an examination of the statute of limitations.
We do not believe that the outcome of any of these matters should have a significant adverse effect on our financial position, long-term results of operations, or cash flows. It is possible however that charges related to these matters could be significant to our results or cash flows in any one accounting period.
Note 15  Subsequent Event
On November 4, 2011, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share payable on December 15, 2011.
 

Exhibit 99.3
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presents the combined historical consolidated statements of operations and consolidated balance sheet of International Paper Company ("International Paper") and the historical statements of operations and combined balance sheet of TempleInland Inc. ("Temple") to reflect the pending acquisition of Temple by International Paper (the "Acquisition"). Those historical financial statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented in accordance with the rules specified by Article 11 of Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC, and has been prepared using the assumptions described in the notes thereto. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet gives effect to the Acquisition as if it had occurred as of the respective balance sheet date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations give effect to the Acquisition as if it had occurred as of the beginning of the period presented.
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of Temple, including the notes thereto, which are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K, as well as in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations of the combined company. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not give effect to any potential cost savings or other operational efficiencies that could result from the Acquisition. In addition, the preliminary estimated allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired was based on Temple's publicly reported financial statements and International Paper's estimates since the Acquisition has not progressed to a stage where there is sufficient information to make a definitive allocation. Accordingly, the purchase price allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been presented solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information in this Current Report on Form 8-K. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any impact of any divestiture or other conditions that may be imposed by regulatory authorities in connection with their approval of the Acquisition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Basis of Presentation
On September 6, 2011, International Paper and Temple entered into a definitive merger agreement under which International Paper will acquire all of the outstanding common stock of Temple for $32.00 per share in cash, plus the assumption of approximately $600 million in Temple's outstanding debt. The total transaction is valued at approximately $4.3 billion, subject to certain post-closing adjustments, and is expected to close no later than the first quarter of 2012. International Paper expects to finance the Acquisition with debt financing and available cash. Upon completion of the Acquisition, International Paper will account for the Acquisition as a purchase in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Under the purchase method, International Paper will record the assets and liabilities of Temple at their respective fair values as of the Acquisition date. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired reflected in Note 2 below was based on Temple's publicly-reported financial statements and International Paper's estimates since the Acquisition has not progressed to a stage where there is sufficient information to make a definitive allocation. Accordingly, these purchase price allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary.
2. Pro Forma Adjustments
The following notes relate to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following notes relate to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


