FILE:IP/IP-8K-20120710101824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5.  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT.
 
On July 9, 2012, the Board of Directors of International Paper Company (the "Company") elected Christopher E. Kubasik as a director and assigned him to its Audit and Finance, and Governance Committees, effective July 10, 2012. Mr. Kubasik's term as a director will expire at the annual meeting of the Company's stockholders in May 2013, at which time his continued Board service will be subject to renomination and stockholder approval. With the election of Mr. Kubasik and the previously disclosed election of Ilene S. Gordon (effective October 1, 2012), the size of the Board has been increased to 11 members.
(d) Election of New Director:
Mr. Kubasik, age 51, is Vice Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer of Lockheed Martin Corporation, a publicly traded global security and aerospace company. In April 2012, he was elected as Chief Executive Officer of Lockheed Martin, effective January 2013, and was elected as Vice Chairman and a director of Lockheed Martin in June 2012. He has been Lockheed Martin's President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2010. He previously served as Lockheed Martin's Executive Vice President  Electronic Systems from September 2007 to December 2009, and as Lockheed Martin's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from February 2001 to August 2007. He received an executive engineering certificate from Carnegie Mellon University in 2008 and completed the Systems Acquisition Management Course for Flag Officers at the Defense Acquisition University in 2004. He holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Maryland.
The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Kubasik is independent and meets the applicable independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the Board's more rigorous standards for determining director independence. There have been no transactions since January 1, 2011, and there are no currently proposed transactions, in which the Company was or is to be a participant and in which he or any member of his immediate family had or will have any interest, that are required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
The selection of Mr. Kubasik was not pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between him and any other person. The Governance Committee of the Board of Directors recommended him to the full Board as a nominee for election. A third-party business leadership recruiting firm engaged by the Governance Committee provided assistance in identifying him as a potential Board candidate.
Mr. Kubasik will be compensated in accordance with previously disclosed compensation programs for the Company's non-management (outside) directors.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


