FILE:IP/IP-8K-20120509160426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT.
Item 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
(a)    International Paper Company (the "Company") held its annual meeting of shareowners on May 7, 2012.
(b)    Of the 437,084,397 shares outstanding on the record date and entitled to vote at the meeting, 391,782,418 shares were present at the meeting in person or by proxy, constituting a quorum of 90 percent. The shareowners of the Company's common stock considered and voted upon three Company proposals and one shareowner proposal at the meeting.
Item 1  Company Proposal to Elect Nine Directors
The holders of the common stock of the Company elected each of the following nominees as directors, to serve a term of one year ending the earlier of (i) the Company's 2013 annual meeting of shareowners and the date a qualified successor has been elected, or (ii) death, resignation or retirement. The directors were elected by the following count:
 
Item 2  Company Proposal to Ratify Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for 2012
The holders of the Company's common stock ratified the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012 by the following count:
 
 
Item 3  Company Proposal to Vote on a Non-Binding Resolution to Approve the Compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers
The holders of the Company's common stock supported the non-binding resolution to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers by the following count:
 
Item 4  Shareowner Proposal Concerning Shareowner Action by Written Consent in Lieu of a Meeting
The holders of the Company's common stock approved the non-binding shareowner proposal concerning shareowner action by written consent by the following count:
 
(c)    Not applicable.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


