FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20030923110601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) September 23, 2003 Cooper Industries, Ltd. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Bermuda (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-31330 98-0355628 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 600 Travis, Suite 5800, Houston, Texas 77002 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) 713/209-8400 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) ------------------------------------------------------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. Exhibits 99.1 Cooper Industries, Ltd. (the "Company") "Sales Trends" to be posted on the Company's website. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. Posting of Sales Trends Information On September 23, 2003, the Company will post on its website the "Sales Trends" information attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. (Registrant) Date: September 23, 2003 /s/ Terrance V. Helz -------------------------------- Terrance V. Helz Associate General Counsel and Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. ----------- 99.1 Company "Sales Trends" to be posted on the Company's website.

EXHIBIT 99.1 SALES TRENDS Sales comparisons are presented to help investors understand the general tone of Cooper's business. These include the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures, currency movements, etc. and are not necessarily indicative of business trends. Specific questions regarding sales trends should be directed to Richard Bajenski, Vice President, Investor Relations, bajenski@cooperindustries.com, (713) 209-8610. Sales for the three months ended on the date shown, compared to the same period in the prior year: OBSERVATIONS ON RECENT SALES TRENDS, FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED AUGUST 31, 2003. COOPER INDUSTRIES Sales for the three months ended August 31, 2003, increased 0-2% compared with last year. o Translation effects continue to benefit the revenue comparisons. ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS Sales for the three months ended August 31, 2003, were relatively unchanged compared with last year. o Worldwide, industrial market demand remains erratic, impacting sales of hazardous duty electrical construction materials and circuit protection products. o Commercial construction markets remained weak, resulting in lower overall demand for light fixtures, wiring devices and electrical support structures. o Electronic and telecom market demand continued to be soft, leading to reduced sales of electronic components, circuit protection products and enclosures. o Sales of power equipment products were weak, reflecting domestic utilities' unwillingness to invest heavily in distribution system improvements due to ongoing weakness in end markets and their financial condition. o European sales of lighting fixtures and security products increased, primarily reflecting currency translation gains. Real demand for these products was down modestly for the period. o Retail channel sales of lighting fixtures and wiring devices remain at or near previous levels. TOOLS AND HARDWARE Sales for the three months ended August 31, 2003, improved 8-10% compared with last year. o North American industrial, automotive and commercial aircraft end-markets remained weak, impacting sales of power tools and automated assembly equipment. Despite this, overall power tool sales were up significantly, reflecting strong international power tool and automated assembly equipment shipments. o Sales of hand tools improved slightly compared to the prior period, reflecting stabilized markets, though at low levels. Note: Includes impacts of acquisitions and divestitures, when applicable.


