FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20030424105905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) April 24, 2003 ------------------------------- Cooper Industries, Ltd. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Bermuda - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-31330 98-0355628 - ------------------------ ------------------------------------- (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 600 Travis, Suite 5800, Houston, Texas 77002 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) 713/209-8400 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. Exhibits 99.1 Cooper Industries, Ltd. (the "Company") press release dated April 24, 2003 titled "Cooper Industries Reports First-Quarter Earnings of 61 Cents Per Share." 99.2 Company "Sales Trends" to be posted on the Company's website. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. Posting of Sales Trends Information On April 24, 2003, the Company will post on its website the "Sales Trends" information attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. First Quarter Results of Operations On April 24, 2003, the Company issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 setting forth the Company's results of operations for the first quarter of 2003.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. (Registrant) Date: April 24, 2003 /s/ Terry A. Klebe ------------------------- Terry A. Klebe Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 24, 2003 Contact: John Breed Director, Media and Government Relations (713) 209-8835 COOPER INDUSTRIES REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER EARNINGS OF 61 CENTS PER SHARE MARGINS IMPROVE DESPITE CONTINUED WEAK MARKET ENVIRONMENT HOUSTON, TX, April 24, 2003 - Cooper Industries, Ltd. (NYSE:CBE) today reported first-quarter earnings of $.61 per share (diluted), compared with $.52 per share for the first quarter of 2002. Revenues for the first quarter 2003 were $957.8 million, compared with $975.0 million for the same period last year. Operating earnings for the first quarter 2003 were $90.8 million, compared with $88.4 million for the first quarter 2002. Net income for the 2003 first quarter was $56.6 million, compared with $48.8 million in the 2002 first quarter. The tax rate for the 2003 first quarter was 20 percent, compared to 32 percent in the first quarter of 2002. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2003, Cooper concluded that no income would be recognized from an agreement related to the 1993 initial public offering of a subsidiary. In the 2002 first quarter, pretax income from this agreement was approximately $3 million. "We are off to a very solid start for 2003," said H. John Riley, Jr., chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Our first-quarter earnings were consistent with our previously stated projections, and we are on track to meet our cash flow objective for the year. Even more important, we achieved positive margin improvement compared with last year's first quarter. Despite having to battle a continued weak market environment, we are making very real progress in our programs to control costs and heighten productivity."
COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. PAGE 2 SEGMENT RESULTS First-quarter 2003 revenues for Cooper's ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS segment were $804.2 million, compared with $819.5 million for the same period in 2002. Segment operating earnings in the 2003 first quarter improved over 9 percent to $100.3 million, compared with $91.8 million in the 2002 first quarter. Segment operating margins improved to 12.5 percent in the 2003 first quarter, compared to 11.2 percent in the same period in 2002. Revenues in the Company's Electrical Products segment declined 2 percent in the first quarter of 2003 compared with the prior year's first quarter, reflecting continued weakness in several of Cooper's key markets. Revenues in Cooper's North American lighting fixtures, wiring devices and support systems businesses were down slightly when compared to the first quarter of 2002, due to continued soft commercial construction markets and somewhat weaker retail channel sales. Further, the Company's power transmission and distribution equipment sales were negatively impacted as many utilities continued to delay major capital commitments, choosing instead to focus on improving their balance sheets. On a more positive note, modest improvements in selected industrial markets offered some signs of encouragement during the quarter as evidenced by revenue gains in the Company's hazardous duty and circuit protection businesses when compared to the prior year's first quarter. First-quarter 2003 revenues in Cooper's TOOLS & HARDWARE segment were $153.6 million, buoyed somewhat by improved sales of tools used in electronic markets and the favorable impact of currency translation. Tools & Hardware sales in the first quarter 2002 were $155.5 million. Segment operating earnings increased to $6.5 million in the 2003 first quarter, compared with $5.3 million in the 2002 first quarter. As a result, operating margins increased to 4.2 percent in the 2003 first quarter, compared with 3.4 percent in the same period last year. While overall demand remains weak, cost control and manufacturing rationalization programs are positively impacting operating results in these businesses. "During the quarter, we advanced several important initiatives that we believe are key to securing Cooper's future growth and profitability," said Riley. "We finalized a new management structure for our Cooper Connection program, allowing us to offer additional marketplace services and broaden our overall customer base. We also made good progress toward implementing a new Company-wide Enterprise Business System. Ultimately, this new system will provide important data transparency across all of our businesses, allowing us to further reduce overhead and manufacturing and logistics costs.
COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. PAGE 3 "We are continuing to execute disciplined cost management throughout all of our businesses, and we are right on plan in executing our previously announced program to close ten plants to appropriately size manufacturing capacity to future marketplace demand. In addition, we are allocating significant resources towards global market share gain initiatives and critical process improvements. "We remain convinced that investing in these programs will provide sustainable competitive advantages. Our ongoing focus on these important programs to enhance our product offerings, take advantage of global manufacturing and sourcing opportunities and maximize our marketplace strengths will enhance our capabilities in the eyes of our customers and ultimately reward all of our constituencies. OUTLOOK "Clearly, the economy remains the biggest challenge for Cooper and other manufacturing companies like us," said Riley. "Since it is doubtful that we will see any significant near-term improvement in our key markets, we are conservatively estimating that second-quarter 2003 earnings will be in the range of $.65 to $.70 per share. In light of current market conditions, we also now expect our earnings for the year will be at or near the low end of our previously stated $2.85 to $3.05 earnings per share range. Consistent with the approach taken in the first quarter, these projections do not include any income from the agreement related to the 1993 initial public offering of one of the Company's subsidiaries. In 2002, this agreement resulted in approximately $3 million of pretax income per quarter and an aggregate of $.08 earnings per share for the year. "While we can't control the economy and its impact on the markets we serve, we can control our costs, and we are maintaining our course of prudent financial management," Riley concluded. Cooper Industries, Ltd., with 2002 revenues of $4.0 billion, is a global manufacturer of electrical products and tools and hardware. Incorporated in Bermuda, the Company's administrative headquarters are in Houston, Texas. Cooper has more than 28,000 employees serving more than 100 locations around the world, and sells products to customers in more than 50 countries. For more information, visit www.cooperindustries.com. Comparisons of 2003 and 2002 first-quarter results appear on the following pages. Statements in this news release are forward-looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's earnings outlook. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the Company, and actual results
COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. PAGE 4 may differ materially from anticipated results. Important factors which may affect the actual results include, but are not limited to: 1) competitive pressures and future global economic conditions, including the level of market demand for the Company's products; 2) the rate at which benefits are realized from cost-reduction programs recently completed, currently under way or to be initiated in the near future; 3) changes in the tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations; 4) the timing and amount of share repurchases by the Company; 5) the resolution of potential liability exposure resulting from Federal-Mogul Corporation's bankruptcy filing; and 6) the timing and amount of income, if any, to be recognized from the agreement related to the 1993 initial public offering of a subsidiary. Further information regarding these and other risk factors is set forth in Cooper's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Cooper's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Cooper also will hold a conference call at 12:00 p.m. (Eastern) today to provide shareholders and other interested parties an overview of the Company's first quarter financial performance. Those interested in hearing the conference call may listen via telephone by dialing (800) 706-6239, or over the Internet through the Investor Center section of the Company's Internet site. International callers should dial (706) 679-0660. No confirmation or pass code will be needed for the live briefing by telephone. Cooper suggests that listeners using the Internet option should access the Company's Internet site well in advance of the webcast to download and install any necessary audio software. A replay briefing will be available by telephone until 11:00 p.m. (Eastern) on April 30, 2003, and over the Internet through May 7, 2003. The telephone number to access the replay is (800) 642-1687 and the access code number is 9398339. International callers should dial (706) 645-9291. The call may include non-GAAP financial measures. Cooper will post a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the Investor Center section of the Company's Internet site under the heading "Management Presentations."
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PERCENTAGE OF REVENUES - more - 5
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR THE QUARTER ENDED MARCH 31 SEGMENT INFORMATION - more - 6
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (PRELIMINARY) -more- 7
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (PRELIMINARY) (1) Net of the effects of translation. 8 # # #

EXHIBIT 99.2 Sales comparisons are presented to help investors understand the general tone of Cooper's business. These include the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures, currency movements, etc. and are not necessarily indicative of business trends. Specific questions regarding sales trends should be directed to Richard Bajenski, Vice President, Investor Relations, bajenski@cooperindustries.com, (713) 209-8610. Sales for the three months ended on the date shown, compared to the same period in the prior year: OBSERVATIONS ON RECENT SALES TRENDS, FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2003. COOPER INDUSTRIES Sales for the three months ended March 31, 2003, declined 2% compared with last year. o Revenue trends benefit from approximately 2% favorable currency translation effect. ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS Sales for the three months ended March 31, 2003, declined 2% compared with last year. o Commercial construction markets remain soft, resulting in lower demand for lighting fixtures, wiring devices and support structures. o Modest improvements in selected industrial markets contributed to gains for hazardous duty electrical construction materials and electrical circuit protection products. o While retail market demand remains relatively stable, sales for lighting fixtures and wiring devices were down slightly as a result of channel inventory adjustments. o Electronics and telecom markets remain sluggish, resulting in weak demand for enclosures. Despite these conditions, sales for circuit protection devices to serve these markets have increased due to successful new products and market penetration. o Market uncertainty in the power delivery portion of utility markets persists, delaying investment in distribution system products. o Demand for European lighting fixtures and security products weakened as a result of declining European construction markets. o Competitive pressures continue to impact pricing in most markets compared to a year ago. o Revenue trends for the segment benefit from approximately 2% favorable currency translation effect. TOOLS AND HARDWARE Sales for the three months ended March 31, 2003, declined 1% compared with last year. o Automotive assembly equipment shipments are currently below prior year levels due to shipment schedules. o Weak but stable industrial activity in North America has led to flat demand for hand and power tools. o European power tool shipments are up due to increased local production line investments. o Revenue trends for the segment benefit from approximately 3% favorable currency translation effect. Note: Includes impacts of acquisitions and divestitures, when applicable.


