FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20040422113235.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) April 22, 2004 Cooper Industries, Ltd. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Bermuda - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-31330 98-0355628 - --------------------------------------- --------------------------------- (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 600 Travis, Suite 5800, Houston, Texas 77002 - --------------------------------------- --------------------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) 713/209-8400 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. Exhibits 99.1 Cooper Industries, Ltd. (the "Company") press release dated April 22, 2004 titled "Cooper Industries Reports a 33 Percent Increase in First-Quarter Per-Share Earnings." 99.2 Company "Sales Trends" to be posted on the Company's website. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. Posting of Sales Trends Information On April 22, 2004, the Company will post on its website the "Sales Trends" information attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. First-Quarter Results of Operations On April 22, 2004, the Company issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 setting forth the Company's results of operations for the first quarter of 2004. The press release includes a reference to free cash flow and the Company's net debt-to-total capitalization ratio. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are set forth in the press release. Company management believes that the presentation of free cash flow provides investors an efficient means by which they can evaluate the Company's capacity in the period to reduce debt, repurchase shares and make acquisitions or other investments. Management also uses free cash flow to assess the Company's operating performance and includes free cash flow as a criteria for determining incentive compensation for key employees. Company management believes that the net debt-to-total capitalization ratio provides investors with a supplemental ratio that reflects the Company's debt leverage if the Company were to use its cash balances to pay down debt.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. COOPER INDUSTRIES, LTD. (Registrant) Date: April 22, 2004 /s/ Terry A. Klebe ------------------------------ Terry A. Klebe Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. 99.1 Cooper Industries, Ltd. (the "Company") press release dated April 22, 2004 titled "Cooper Industries Reports a 33 Percent Increase in First-Quarter Per-Share Earnings." 99.2 Company "Sales Trends" to be posted on the Company's website.

EXHIBIT 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 22, 2004 Contact: John Breed Director, Media and Government Relations (713) 209-8835 COOPER INDUSTRIES REPORTS A 33 PERCENT INCREASE IN FIRST-QUARTER PER-SHARE EARNINGS Company Raises Earnings Outlook for the Year HOUSTON, TX, April 22, 2004 - Cooper Industries, Ltd. (NYSE:CBE) today reported first-quarter earnings of $.81 per share (diluted), a 33 percent increase compared with $.61 per share for last year's first quarter. Revenues rose 11 percent in the 2004 first quarter to $1.06 billion, compared with $957.8 million for the same period last year. Operating earnings for the first quarter 2004 were $114.2 million, a 26 percent increase over the first quarter of 2003. Net income for the 2004 first quarter was $77.7 million compared with $56.6 million in the 2003 first quarter. "We are very pleased with our results for the first quarter, which exceeded even our most recent projections for the period," said H. John Riley, Jr., chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Some of this performance was due to improved conditions in several of the markets we serve. However, improved markets are not the sole answer for our strong first-quarter results; our performance clearly reflects a continuing improvement in the Company's fundamental operational strengths. "During the quarter, we achieved gains in all of our key performance improvement metrics: sales, margins, earnings and cash flow. We also repurchased approximately two million shares of common stock for roughly $110 million, and completed the acquisition of a complementary lighting product line for approximately $10 million, Cooper's first acquisition since late 2000. Even considering these actions, the Company's balance sheet and financial flexibility remained very strong, with a debt-to-total-capitalization ratio net of cash at March 31, 2004, of 31.6 percent, -more-
significantly better than 37.5 percent at the same time last year. Free cash flow for the first quarter 2004 was $49.4 million, an improvement of $75.2 million over last year's first quarter. "We are off to a very good start for 2004, and we are progressing nicely with the execution of our key initiatives to improve productivity, reduce costs, generate excess cash and grow our businesses globally," continued Riley. "We are confident that our strategy and disciplined management style will continue to deliver solid results over the balance of the year." SEGMENT RESULTS Cooper's ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS segment reported first-quarter 2004 revenues of $890.7 million, an 11 percent increase from the $804.2 million reported for last year's first quarter. Excluding the impact of favorable currency translation, revenues grew 8 percent in the first quarter. Segment operating earnings were $120.8 million, up 20 percent compared with $100.3 million for the same period last year. Segment operating margins improved to 13.6 percent in the 2004 first quarter compared with 12.5 percent for the first quarter of 2003. All of Cooper's Electrical Products businesses experienced real revenue growth during the quarter. Retail channel sales were very strong during the period, accounting for about one-third of the quarter's incremental revenue growth and positively impacting sales in both the Company's lighting and wiring devices businesses. Continued strong residential construction and improving industrial and electronic markets as well as new product introductions and the Company's key market penetration programs bolstered sales of Cooper's hazardous-duty, circuit protection and support systems products. Increased maintenance spending by utilities resulted in revenue gains in Cooper's power transmission and distribution equipment business. Cooper's European lighting and security businesses benefited from new product introductions and improved penetration of European industrial markets. First-quarter 2004 revenues in the TOOLS AND HARDWARE segment grew 13 percent to $173.9 million compared with $153.6 million in the same period last year. Excluding the impact of favorable currency translation, core revenues increased over 7 percent. Segment operating earnings for the 2004 first quarter rose to $11.8 million from $6.5 million in the prior year's first quarter. Return on sales for the segment in the quarter was 6.8 percent, up from 4.2 percent in the 2003 first quarter. -more-
Here again, gains in Tools and Hardware segment revenues were driven by improved industrial markets, strong retail channel sales and new product introductions. These gains were partially offset by lower shipments of assembly equipment to the worldwide automotive industry. OUTLOOK "As we enter the second quarter, we are encouraged by what we see as signs of an improving economy both here in North America and on a global basis," said Riley. "It remains to be seen, however, if this momentum does indeed foretell a broad-based recovery that will continue throughout the balance of the year. We are mindful of the increasing pressure of rising commodity prices as well as the threat of possible increases in interest rates, and the potential impact these measures may have on our performance going forward. "Despite this, we are seeing positive commercial dynamics both inside and outside our businesses," said Riley. "As a result, we expect second-quarter 2004 earnings to be in the range of $.82 to $.87 per share, and we are increasing our earnings outlook for all of 2004 to a range of $3.25 to $3.40 per share." Cooper Industries, Ltd., with 2003 revenues of $4.1 billion, is a global manufacturer of electrical products and tools and hardware. Incorporated in Bermuda, the Company's administrative headquarters are in Houston, Texas. Cooper has more than 27,000 employees serving more than 100 locations around the world, and sells products to customers in more than 50 countries. For more information, visit the Company's Internet site, www.cooperindustries.com. Comparisons of 2004 and 2003 first-quarter results appear on the following pages. Statements in this news release are forward-looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's earnings outlook and revenue growth. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the Company, and actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Important factors which may affect the actual results include, but are not limited to: 1) competitive pressures and future global economic conditions, including the level of market demand for the Company's products; 2) the rate at which benefits are realized from cost-reduction programs recently completed, currently under way or to -more-
be initiated in the near future; 3) the successful implementation of the Company's strategic initiatives; 4) changes in the tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations; 5) the timing and amount of share repurchases by the Company; and 6) the resolution of potential liability exposure resulting from Federal-Mogul Corporation's bankruptcy filing. Cooper will hold a conference call at 12:00 p.m. (Eastern) today to provide shareholders and other interested parties an overview of the Company's first-quarter 2004 performance. Those interested in hearing the conference call may listen via telephone by dialing (800) 706-6239, or over the Internet through the Investor Center section of the Company's Internet site, using the "Management Presentations" link. International callers should dial (706) 679-0660. No confirmation or pass code will be needed for the live briefing by telephone. Cooper suggests that listeners using the Internet option should access the Company's Internet site well in advance of the webcast to download and install any necessary audio software. A replay briefing will be available by telephone until 11:00 p.m. (Eastern) on April 28, 2004, and over the Internet through May 5, 2004. The telephone number to access the replay is (800) 642-1687, and the access code number is 6601153. International callers should dial (706) 645-9291 and use the same access code to hear the replay. The call may include non-GAAP financial measures. Cooper will post a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the Investor Center section of the Company's Internet site under the heading "Management Presentations." -more-
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PERCENTAGE OF REVENUES - more - 5
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR THE QUARTER ENDED MARCH 31 SEGMENT INFORMATION - more - 6
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (PRELIMINARY) - more - 7
RATIOS OF DEBT TO TOTAL CAPITALIZATION AND NET DEBT TO TOTAL CAPITALIZATION (PRELIMINARY) - more - 8
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (PRELIMINARY) (1) Net of the effects of translation FREE CASH FLOW RECONCILIATION # # # 9

EXHIBIT 99.2 Sales comparisons are presented to help investors understand the general tone of Cooper's business. These include the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures, currency movements, etc. and are not necessarily indicative of business trends. Specific questions regarding sales trends should be directed to Richard Bajenski, Vice President, Investor Relations, bajenski@cooperindustries.com, (713) 209-8610. Sales for the three months ended on the dates shown, compared to the same period in the prior year: OBSERVATIONS ON RECENT SALES TRENDS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2004. COOPER INDUSTRIES Sales for the three months ended March 31, 2004 increased 11% compared with last year. Translation positively impacted revenues by 3%. ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS Sales for the three months ended March 31, 2004 increased 11% compared with last year. - Continued strength in residential construction activity and strengthening industrial markets have led to increased sales of hazardous duty electrical construction materials, circuit protection and support system products. - A growing recovery in electronics markets has led to increased sales of circuit protection components. - Increased maintenance spending by utilities resulted in revenue gains for power transmission and distribution equipment products. - European lighting and security sales increased as a result of new product introductions and new market penetration of European industrial markets. - Retail channel sales were strong, particularly for lighting fixtures and wiring devices. - Translation benefited revenues by 3%. TOOLS AND HARDWARE Sales for the three months ended March 31, 2004 improved 13% compared with last year. - Overall power tool sales were up, reflecting higher shipments of industrial power tools, partially offset by lower shipments of assembly equipment. - Sales of hand tools improved, reflecting new product introductions, better retail channel sales and recovering electronic markets. - Translation positively impacted revenues by 6%. NOTE: INCLUDES IMPACTS OF ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES, WHEN APPLICABLE.


