FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20051219112423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 15, 2005, Cooper Industries and other parties involved in the resolution of the Federal-Mogul Corporation bankruptcy proceeding reached an agreement regarding Coopers participation in Federal-Moguls 524(g) asbestos claimants trust. By participating in this trust, Cooper will resolve its liability for asbestos claims arising from Coopers former Abex products business. The proposed settlement agreement is subject to court approval, approval of 75% of the current Abex asbestos claimants and certain other approvals. The settlement will resolve more than 38,000 pending Abex claims. Future claims will be resolved through the bankruptcy trust, and Cooper will be protected against future claims by an injunction to be issued by the bankruptcy court upon plan confirmation. Key terms and conditions of the settlement, including the identity of the parties to the agreement, are described in the Companys press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits 99.1 Company press release dated December 19, 2005 titled "Cooper Industries Reaches Agreement To Resolve Abex Asbestos Liabilities Through Federal-Mogul Bankruptcy Trust."
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

COOPER INDUSTRIES REACHES AGREEMENT TO RESOLVE ABEX ASBESTOS
LIABILITIES THROUGH FEDERAL-MOGUL BANKRUPTCY TRUST
HOUSTON, TX December 19  Cooper Industries, Ltd. (CBE: NYSE) announced today that the Company and other parties involved in the resolution of the Federal-Mogul Corporation ("FMC") bankruptcy proceeding have reached an agreement regarding Cooper's participation in Federal-Mogul's 524 (g) asbestos claimants' trust. By participating in this trust, Cooper will resolve its liability for asbestos claims arising from Cooper's former Abex Friction Products business. The proposed settlement agreement is subject to court approval, approval of 75 percent of the current Abex asbestos claimants and certain other approvals. The settlement will resolve more than 38,000 pending Abex claims. Future claims will be resolved through the bankruptcy trust, and Cooper will be protected against future claims by an injunction to be issued by the district court upon plan confirmation.
"Since Federal-Mogul's bankruptcy process began in October 2001, we have worked tirelessly to bring this matter to a constructive conclusion," said Kirk Hachigian, chief executive officer and president, Cooper Industries. "At the same time, we have strengthened the Company's financial position and improved our strategic flexibility. Given the costs of continued litigation, the uncertainty of legislative reforms and the risks inherent in remaining in the tort system, we believe resolving the Abex liabilities through the trust is the preferable option for our shareholders. With this settlement in place, we will have certainty and finality on the Abex liability and can focus management resources on executing our strategic plan."
The claims to be resolved through the bankruptcy trust relate to the Abex Friction Products business of Cooper's former Automotive Products segment. Cooper sold its Automotive Products business to FMC in October 1998. Cooper began defending against these claims pursuant to its guaranty obligations to the prior owner of Abex when Federal-Mogul filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition and indicated that it may not honor its indemnity obligations to Cooper.
Key terms and aspects of the Proposed Settlement Agreement
Although the payments related to the settlement could extend to 25 years and the collection of insurance proceeds could extend beyond 25 years, the liability and insurance will be undiscounted on Cooper's balance sheet as the amount of the actual annual payments is not reasonably predictable. Cooper is in the process of finalizing the amount of insurance recoveries that will be included in the charge to discontinued operations. Cooper anticipates taking an after-tax charge to "loss from discontinued operations" of between $150 million and $225 million in the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005. The range of the charge to discontinued operations primarily related to insurance recoveries, which in any scenario when finalized will be on the lower end of the range of potential insurance recovery estimates.
In addition to the Company, parties to the agreement include FMC; Federal-Mogul Products, Inc. ("FMP"); the Future Claimants' Representative for FMC and FMP appointed in the Chapter 11 cases known as No. 01-10578, pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware; the Official Committee of Asbestos Claimants for FMC and FMP appointed in the Reorganization Cases; Pneumo-Abex LLC; and PCT International Holdings Inc. These parties have agreed to the terms of the proposed settlement agreement.
In re Federal-Mogul Global Inc., T&N Limited, et al.,
Teleconference and Webcast
Cooper will hold a conference call on December 19, 2005, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern, to discuss this announcement. Shareholders and other interested parties may listen to the teleconference by calling (866) 825-1692 within the U.S. or (617) 213-8059 for international calls. Please reference pass code 58952187 to access the call. A replay will be available by telephone through December 28, 2005 by dialing (888) 286-8010 within the U.S. or (617) 801-6888 for international calls. Please reference pass code 82647307 to hear the replay.
The teleconference also will be webcast at www.cooperindustries.com in the Investor Center section under "Management Presentations." An audio replay also will be available on the Internet site through December 28, 2005.
Cooper Industries, Ltd., with 2004 revenues of $4.5 billion, is a global manufacturer of electrical products and tools and hardware. Headquartered in Houston, TX, Cooper has approximately 29,000 employees serving more than 90 locations around the world, and sells products to customers in more than 50 countries. For more information, visit www.cooperindustries.com.


