FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20051109144940.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
.
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
Item 2.03
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
     On November 8, 2005, Cooper US, Inc. ("Cooper US"), a subsidiary of Cooper Industries, Ltd. ("Company"), issued $325 million of 5.25% senior notes that mature on November 15, 2012 (the "Notes"). Payment of the Notes is guaranteed by the Company and certain of our subsidiaries (the "Guarantors").
     Proceeds of the Notes will be swapped to 272.6 million, effectively converting the seven-year U.S. Notes to seven-year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55%. The proceeds of 272.6 million will partially fund repayment of a 300 million issue of 6.25% five-year notes, all of which matured on October 25, 2005.
Indenture
     The Notes are governed by the terms of an Indenture among Cooper US, the Guarantors and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Trustee. The following summary of certain provisions of the Indenture is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
     The Notes have a fixed annual interest rate of 5.25%, which will be paid semiannually on November 15 and May 15, commencing May 15, 2006 (the first interest payment includes accrued interest on the Notes from November 8, 2005). At any time during the term of the Notes, Cooper US may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
Cooper US will also pay the accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to the redemption date.
     Events of default under the Indenture that may accelerate the payment obligations under the Notes include failure to make payments under the Notes when due, certain insolvency and bankruptcy events and failure to observe and perform covenants under the Indenture. Covenants under the Indenture include, among other things, covenants that restrict the ability of the Company and certain subsidiaries to create liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions.
Table of Contents
Registration Rights Agreement
     The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and were initially sold in the United States to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on an exemption from registration under Rule 144A. In connection with the offering of the Notes, on November 8, 2005 (the "Closing Date"), Cooper US and the Guarantors entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as representatives of the initial purchasers. The following summary of certain provisions of the Registration Rights Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete Registration Rights Agreement filed as Exhibit 4.2 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
  The Registration Rights Agreement requires Cooper US and the Guarantors to, among other things:
     If Cooper US and the Guarantors fail to meet their obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement, then Cooper US will pay additional interest to each holder of the Notes that are subject to transfer restrictions, in an amount equal to .25% per annum for the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of such failure. The interest rate will increase by an additional .25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all registration defaults have been cured, up to a maximum additional interest rate of .50% per annum.
     Some of the initial purchasers and their affiliates have provided the Company with certain financial advisory, investment banking and commercial banking services.
Purchase Agreement
     In connection with the offering of the Notes, on November 3, 2005, Cooper US and the Guarantors entered into a Purchase Agreement with Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as representatives of the initial purchasers. The following summary of certain provisions of the Purchase Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete Purchase Agreement filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Cooper US agreed to sell and the initial purchasers agreed to purchase, in the aggregate, the entire principal amount of the Notes at a price equal to 98.974% of the principal amount thereof.
Table of Contents
Item 8.01
Other Events
     On November 8, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of its $325 million debt offering. A copy of the release is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     THIS INDENTURE, dated as of November 8, 2005, from , a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "Company"); ., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda (hereinafter called "Cooper Parent"); and the following subsidiaries of Cooper Parent: ., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware; ., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware; , a limited liability company duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware; ., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware; ., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware; and . a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York to N.A., a national banking association existing under the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (hereinafter called the "Trustee"),
Cooper US, Inc.
Cooper Industries, Ltd
Cooper B-Line, Inc
Cooper Bussmann, Inc
Cooper Crouse-Hinds LLC
Cooper Lighting, Inc
Cooper Power Systems, Inc
Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc
JPMorgan Chase Bank,
     WHEREAS, the Company is empowered to borrow money for its corporate purposes and to issue its debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Debentures");
     WHEREAS, the Company deems it necessary to issue from time to time for its lawful purposes Debentures, unlimited as to principal amount, and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of the Debentures in one or more series, bearing such rates of interest, if any, maturing at such time or times and having such other provisions as shall be fixed as hereinafter provided;
     WHEREAS, Cooper Parent and the subsidiaries named above (hereinafter collectively called the "Guarantors") have determined that it is in their respective best interests to guarantee the Company's obligations under the Debentures and this Indenture; and
     WHEREAS, the Company and each of the Guarantors by due corporate action has determined to execute and deliver an indenture in the form of this Indenture, and all things necessary to make this Indenture a legal, valid, binding and enforceable agreement, have been done and performed;
     NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH that in consideration of the premises and of the acceptance and purchase of the Debentures by the holders thereof, the Company and the Guarantors covenant and agree with the Trustee, for the benefit of all the present and future holders of the Debentures or series thereof, as follows:
 
     SECTION 1.01. . The terms defined in this Section 1.01 (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section 1.01. All other terms used in this Indenture which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 or which are by reference therein defined in the Securities Act of 1933 (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise required) shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in said Trust Indenture Act and in said Securities Act as in force at the date this Indenture is originally executed. All accounting terms used herein and not expressly defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America at the time of determination of such terms.
Definitions
:
Additional Amounts
     The term "Additional Amounts" shall have the meaning specified in Section 5.09.
:
Agent Member
     The term "Agent Member" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.11.
:
Applicable Debentures
     The term "Applicable Debentures" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7.01.
:
Attributable Debt
     The term "Attributable Debt" shall mean the present value (discounted in accordance with a method of discounting which for financial reporting purposes is consistent with generally accepted accounting principles) of the rental payments during the remaining terms of any Sale and Leaseback Transaction for which the lessee is obligated (including any period for which such lease has been extended), such rental payments not to include amounts payable by the lessee for maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments and similar charges and for contingent rents (such as those based on sales). In case of any Sale and Leaseback Transaction which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such rental payments shall also include such penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated.
:
Board of Directors
     The term "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company or a Guarantor, as applicable, or any committee of such Board or any committee of officers of such corporation duly authorized to take any action hereunder.
:
Certified Resolutions or Board Resolutions
     The terms "Certified Resolutions" or "Board Resolutions" shall mean a copy delivered to the Trustee of a resolution of the Board of Directors certified by the Secretary or Assistant
 
Secretary of the applicable corporation, to have been duly adopted and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.
:
Change in the Tax Law
     The term "Change in the Tax Law" shall have the meaning specified in Section 4.04.
:
Company
     The term "Company" shall mean Cooper US, Inc. a Delaware corporation, and, subject to the provisions of Article Twelve, shall mean its successors and assigns.
:
Consolidated Tangible Assets
     The term "Consolidated Tangible Assets" means, as of any date, the total amount of assets of Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis at the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding that date, as determined under generally accepted accounting principles, less: (a) Intangible Assets and (b) appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other persons holding equity investments in Subsidiaries, in the case of each of clauses (a) and (b) above as reflected on the consolidated balance sheet of Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding that date.
:
Cooper Parent
     The term "Cooper Parent" means Cooper Industries, Ltd. a Bermuda company, and, subject to the provisions of Article Twelve, shall mean its successors and assigns.
:
Debenture or Debentures; Outstanding
     The term "Debenture" or "Debentures" shall mean any note or notes, bond or bonds, debenture or debentures, or any other evidences of indebtedness, as the case may be, of any series authenticated and delivered from time to time under this Indenture.
     The term "outstanding or "Outstanding," when used with reference to Debentures, shall, subject to the provisions of Section 9.04, mean all Debentures theretofore authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except:
 
:
Debentureholder or Holder
     The terms "Debentureholder," "Holder," "holder of Debentures," or other similar terms shall mean any Person in whose name at the time a particular Debenture is registered on the register kept for that purpose in accordance with the terms hereof.
:
Depositary
     The term "Depositary" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.11.
:
Eligible Obligations
     The term "Eligible Obligations" shall mean obligations as a result of the deposit of which (along with the simultaneous deposit, if any, of money and/or U.S. Government Obligations) the relevant series of Debentures are rated in the highest generic long-term debt rating category assigned to legally defeased debt by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies.
:
Event of Default
     The term "Event of Default" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7.01.
:
Funded Debt
     The term "Funded Debt" shall mean (a) any Indebtedness maturing by its terms more than one year from the date of the issuance thereof, including any Indebtedness renewable or extendible at the option of the obliger to a date later than one year from the date of the original issuance thereof, excluding any portion of Indebtedness which is included in current liabilities and (b) any Indebtedness which may be payable from the proceeds of Funded Debt as defined in clause (a) of this definition pursuant to the terms of such Funded Debt.
:
Global Debenture
     The term "Global Debenture" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.11.
:
Guarantee
     The term "Guarantee" means any of the joint and several and unconditional and unsubordinated guarantees by the respective Guarantors of the due and punctual payment of principal of and premium, if any, on the Debentures and certain other obligations of the Company pursuant to this Indenture when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise in accordance with the terms of the Debentures and this Indenture.
:
Guarantor or Guarantors
     The term "Guarantor" means each of Cooper Parent and the following Subsidiaries and the term "Guarantors" means all such companies collectively: Cooper B-Line, Inc., Cooper Bussmann, Inc., Cooper Crouse-Hinds LLC, Cooper Lighting, Inc., Cooper Power Systems, Inc. and Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc., and, subject to the provisions of Article Twelve shall mean their respective successors and assigns.
 
:
Indebtedness
     The term "Indebtedness" of any corporation shall mean all indebtedness for money borrowed which is created, assumed, incurred or guaranteed in any manner by such corporation or for which such corporation is otherwise responsible or liable.
:
Indenture
     The term "Indenture" shall mean this instrument as originally executed or, if amended or supplemented as herein provided, as so amended or supplemented.
:
Intangible Assets
     The term "Intangible Assets" means all goodwill, patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, and all other items that would be treated as intangibles on the consolidated balance sheet of Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries prepared under generally accepted accounting principles.
:
Judgment Currency
     The term "Judgment Currency" shall have the meaning specified in Section 15.11.
:
Lien
     The term "Lien" shall mean any mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien, charge or other encumbrance.
:
Officers' Certificate
     The term "Officers' Certificate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, a certificate signed by two officers of such Person, one of whom shall be the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President or the Chief Financial Officer, and the other of whom shall be the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of such Person, and delivered to the Trustee. Wherever this Indenture requires that an Officers' Certificate be signed also by an accountant or other expert, such accountant or other expert (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Indenture) may be in the employ of the Company or the respective Guarantor. Each such certificate issued by the Company or a Guarantor, as the case may be, shall include the statements provided for in Section 15.05 if and to the extent required by the provisions of such Section. One of the officers executing an officers' certificate in accordance with Section 5.08 hereof shall be the (i) President or Chief Executive Officer, (ii) the Chief Financial Officer, or (iii) the chief accounting officer or Controller, of the Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable.
:
Opinion of Counsel
     The term "Opinion of Counsel" shall mean a written opinion of counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or a Guarantor, as applicable. Each such opinion issued by the Company shall include the statements provided for in Section 15.05 if and to the extent required by the provisions of such Section.
:
Payor
     The term "Payor" shall have the meaning specified in Section 5.09.
 
:
Person
     The term "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
:
Principal Office of the Trustee
     The term "principal office of the Trustee," or other similar term, shall mean the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered.
:
Principal Property
     The term "Principal Property" shall mean (A) any manufacturing plant located in the continental United States, or manufacturing equipment located in any such manufacturing plant (together with the land on which such plant is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof), owned or leased on the first date on which a Debenture is authenticated by the Trustee or thereafter acquired or leased by Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary, other than (i) any property which the Board of Directors of Cooper Parent determines is not of material importance to the total business conducted, or assets owned, by Cooper Parent and its Subsidiaries, as an entirety, or (ii) any portion of any such property which the Board of Directors of Cooper Parent determines not to be of material importance to the use or operation of such property; and (B) any Shares or Indebtedness issued by any Restricted Subsidiary. "Manufacturing plant" does not include any plant owned or leased jointly or in common with one or more Persons other than Cooper Parent and its Restricted Subsidiaries in which the aggregate interest of Cooper Parent and its Restricted Subsidiaries does not exceed fifty percent (50%). "Manufacturing equipment" means manufacturing equipment in such manufacturing plants used directly in the production of Cooper Parent's or any Restricted Subsidiary's products and does not include office equipment, computer equipment, rolling stock and other equipment not directly used in the production of Cooper Parent's or any Restricted Subsidiary's products.
:
Relevant Tax Jurisdiction
     The term "Relevant Tax Jurisdiction" shall have the meaning specified in Section 5.09.
:
Required Currency
     The term "Required Currency" shall have the meaning specified in Section 15.11.
:
Responsible Officer
     The term "Responsible Officer," when used with respect to the Trustee, shall mean any officer of the Trustee having direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture, or to whom corporate trust matters are referred because of that officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
:
Restricted Subsidiary
     The term "Restricted Subsidiary" shall mean the Company and any other Subsidiary substantially all the property of which is located within the continental United States, other than (i) a Subsidiary primarily engaged in financing, including, without limitation, lending on the security of, purchasing or discounting (with or without recourse) receivables, leases, obligations or
 
other claims arising from or in connection with the purchase or sale of products or services, (ii) a Subsidiary primarily engaged in leasing or insurance, (iii) a Subsidiary primarily engaged in financing Cooper Parent's or any Restricted Subsidiary's operations outside the continental United States, or (iv) a Subsidiary included in the Tools and Hardware segment of Cooper Parent's consolidated operations which for purposes of this Indenture includes Cooper Industries, LLC and any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof.
:
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
     The term "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" shall mean any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property of Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary whether such Principal Property is now owned or hereafter acquired (except for leases for a term of not more than three years and except for leases between Cooper Parent and a Restricted Subsidiary or between Restricted Subsidiaries and except for leases of property executed prior to, at the time of, or within one year after the later of, the acquisition, the completion of construction, including any improvements or alterations on real property, or the commencement of commercial operation of such property), which Principal Property has been or is to be sold or transferred by Cooper Parent or such Restricted Subsidiary to such Person.
:
Secured Indebtedness
     The term "Secured Indebtedness" of any corporation shall mean Indebtedness secured by any Lien upon property (including Shares or Indebtedness issued by any Restricted Subsidiary) owned by Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary.
:
Shares
     The term "Shares" shall mean as to any corporation all the issued and outstanding equity shares (except for directors' qualifying shares) of such corporation.
:
Subsidiary
     The term "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation a majority of the Voting Shares of which are at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by Cooper Parent or by one or more Subsidiaries, and which is consolidated in Cooper Parent's latest consolidated financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or provided generally to Cooper Parent's shareholders.
:
Trustee
     The term "Trustee" shall mean JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association, and, subject to the provisions of Article Eight hereof, shall mean its successors and assigns as Trustee hereunder.
:
Trust Indenture Act of 1939
     The term "Trust Indenture Act of 1939" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as it was in force at the date of execution of this Indenture, provided however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as amended.
 
:
U.S. Government Obligations
     The term "U.S. Government Obligations" shall mean securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the timely payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case under clause (i) or (ii) are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
:
Voting Shares
     The term "Voting Shares" shall mean, as to Shares of a particular corporation, outstanding Shares of any class of such corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors, excluding Shares entitled so to vote only upon the happening of some contingency.
     SECTION 2.01. The aggregate principal amount of Debentures that may be issued by the Company and authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Debentures may, at the election of and as authorized by the Board of Directors to be evidenced by a Board Resolution, be issued in one or more series, and shall be designated generally as debentures, notes, bonds and other evidences of indebtedness, as the case may be, with such further particular designations added or incorporated in such title for the Debentures of any particular series as the Board of Directors may determine as provided in Section 2.02. Each Debenture shall bear upon the face thereof the designation so selected for the series to which it belongs and shall be dated the date of its authentication. All Debentures of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in the Certified Resolution or in an indenture supplemental hereto provided in the Certified Resolution or in an indenture supplemental hereto provided to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.02(A).
Issuable in Series; Unlimited Aggregate Principal Amount.
     SECTION 2.02. At any time, and from time to time, after the execution of this Indenture, Debentures of each of the series created pursuant to the provisions hereof may be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee and shall be authenticated by the Trustee and delivered to, or upon the order of, the Company upon receipt by the Trustee of:
Documents Required for Issuance of Each Series of Debentures.
 
 
 
     If all the Debentures of a series are not to be issued at one time and if the Certified Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto establishing such series shall so permit, an Officers' Certificate may set forth procedures acceptable to the Trustee for the issuance of such Debentures and determining the terms of particular Debentures of such series, such as interest rate, maturity date, date of issuance and date from which interest shall accrue.
     If all Debentures of a series are not to be issued at any one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Certified Resolution, Officers' Certificates and Opinions of Counsel provided for in this Section 2.02 at the time of issuance of each Debenture of such series if instead such documents are delivered at or prior to the time of issuance of the first Debenture of such series.
     The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Debentures under this Section if the Trustee determines that such actions as provided under this Section to be taken by the Company may not lawfully be taken by the Company or if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or board of trustees, executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees or Responsible Officers shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders.
     SECTION 2.03. . The Debentures shall be issuable only as registered securities without coupons (subject to Section 11.01(d)) in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 2.02, provided that in the absence of such specifications with regard to any series of the Debentures, the Debentures of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof.
Denominations; Certificate of Authentication
     The Trustee's certificate of authentication on all Debentures shall be in substantially the following form:
 
     This [note, bond, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness] is one of the series of Debentures referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
     SECTION 2.04. . The Debentures shall be signed manually or in facsimile in the name and on behalf of the Company by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer, and attested manually or in facsimile by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. Only such Debentures as shall bear a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided in Section 2.03, executed manually by the Trustee, shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. Such certificate by the Trustee upon any Debenture executed by the Company shall be conclusive evidence that the Debenture so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
Execution of Debentures
     In case any officer of the Company who shall have signed any of the Debentures shall cease to be such officer before the Debentures so signed shall have been authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, or disposed of by the Company, such Debentures nevertheless may be authenticated and delivered or disposed of as though the Person who signed such Debentures had not ceased to be such officer of the Company; and any Debenture may be signed on behalf of the Company by such Persons as, at the actual date of the execution of such Debenture, shall be the proper officers of the Company, although at the date of the execution of this Indenture any such Person was not such an officer.
     SECTION 2.05. . Debentures may be exchanged for an equal aggregate principal amount of Debentures of the same series and date of maturity of other authorized denominations. Debentures to be exchanged shall be surrendered at the office or agency to be maintained by the Company for such purpose in the City and State of New York, as provided in Section 5.02, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor, the Debenture or Debentures that the Debentureholder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive.
Exchange and Registration of Transfer of Debentures
     The Company or any Debenture registrar appointed by the Company shall keep, at said office or agency, a register in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company, or any Debenture registrar appointed by the Company, shall register Debentures and shall register the transfer of Debentures as in this Article Two provided. Such Debenture register shall be in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. If the Debenture register is not kept by the Trustee it shall at all reasonable times be open for inspection by the Trustee. Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of any Debenture at such office or agency, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees, a new Debenture or Debentures of the same series and date of maturity for an equal aggregate principal amount. The Company hereby
 
appoints the Trustee to be Debenture registrar, but reserves the right to change the Debenture registrar or to itself act as Debenture registrar.
     All Debentures presented for registration of transfer, exchange, redemption or payment shall (if so required by the Company or any Debenture registrar appointed by the Company) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer (in form satisfactory to the Company or any Debenture registrar appointed by the Company) duly executed, by the holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
     No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer of Debentures, but the Company, the Trustee or any Debenture registrar appointed by the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
     The Company or any Debenture registrar appointed by the Company shall not be required to exchange or register the transfer of (a) any Debentures for a period of fifteen days next preceding any selection of Debentures to be redeemed, or (b) any Debentures selected, called or being called for redemption.
     SECTION 2.06. In case any temporary or definitive Debenture shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company in its discretion may execute, and upon its request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, a new Debenture of the same series and date of maturity in the same principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Debenture, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Debenture so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case the applicant for a substituted Debenture shall furnish to the Company and to the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and to the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Debenture and of the ownership thereof.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Debentures.
     The Trustee shall authenticate any such substituted Debenture and deliver the same upon the written request or authorization of any officer of the Company. Upon the issuance of any substituted Debenture, the Company or the Trustee may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. In case any Debenture which has matured or is about to mature shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company may, instead of issuing a substituted Debenture, pay or authorize the payment of the same (upon surrender thereof in the case of a mutilated Debenture) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Company and to the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee of the destruction, loss or theft of such Debenture and of the ownership thereof.
     Every substituted Debenture of any series issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2.06 by virtue of the fact that any Debenture of such series is destroyed, lost or stolen shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Debenture of such series shall be found at any time, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Debentures of such series duly issued hereunder. All Debentures of any series shall be held and owned upon the express condition that, to the extent permitted by law, the foregoing provisions are exclusive with
 
respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Debentures of such series and shall preclude any and all other rights or remedies notwithstanding (to the extent permitted by applicable law) any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.
     SECTION 2.07. . Pending the preparation of definitive Debentures of any series, the Company may execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver temporary Debentures of such series (printed, lithographed or otherwise produced). Temporary Debentures shall be issuable in any authorized denomination and substantially in the form of the definitive Debentures, but with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Debentures, all as may be determined by the Company and the Trustee. Every such temporary Debenture shall be authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions, in substantially the same manner and with the same effect as the definitive Debentures. Without unreasonable delay the Company will cause to be prepared, and will execute and deliver to the Trustee definitive Debentures of such series, whereupon any or all temporary Debentures of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor at the office or agency of the Company, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange for such temporary Debentures an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Debentures of the same series and date of maturity. Such exchange shall be made by the Company at its own expense and without any charge therefor except that the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. Until so exchanged, the temporary Debentures of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Debentures of such series authenticated and delivered hereunder.
Temporary Debentures
     SECTION 2.08. . All Debentures surrendered for the purpose of payment, redemption, exchange or registration of transfer, shall, if surrendered to the Company or any paying agent or any Debenture registrar, be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation and promptly cancelled by it, in accordance with its then customary procedures or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be promptly cancelled by it in accordance with its then customary procedures, and no Debentures shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture. Upon the written request of the Company, the Trustee may destroy cancelled Debentures and deliver a certificate of such destruction to the Company. If the Company shall acquire any of the Debentures, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Debentures unless and until the same are surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
Cancellation of Debentures Paid, Etc
     SECTION 2.09. . All Debentures of each series issued under this Indenture shall in all respects be equally and ratably entitled to the benefits hereof with respect to such series without preference, priority or distinction on account of the actual time or times of the authentication and delivery or maturity of the Debentures of such series.
Debentures to be Treated Equally
     SECTION 2.10. Unless otherwise provided in the Certified Resolution or one or more indentures supplemental hereto setting forth the terms on any series of Debentures, interest on the Debentures of such series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest.
     SECTION 2.11. . For the purposes of this Indenture, the term "Agent Member" shall mean a member of, or participant in, a Depositary; the term "Depositary" shall mean, with respect to Debentures issuable or issued in whole or in part in the
Global Debentures; Depositary
 
form of one or more Global Debentures, the clearing agency registered under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 designated as Depositary in a Certified Resolution, or in an indenture supplemental hereto, pursuant to Section 2.02, and if at any time there is more than one such agency, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Debentures shall mean the respective Depositary with respect to a particular series of Debentures; and the term "Global Debenture" shall mean a global certificate evidencing all or part of the series of Debentures, executed by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and issued to the Depositary for the series or such portion of the series, and registered in the name of such Depositary or its nominee.
     If a particular series of Debentures are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Debentures, as specified in a Certified Resolution, or in an indenture supplemental hereto, pursuant to Section 2.02, then the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 2.03 with respect to such series, authenticate and deliver each such Global Debenture, which (i) shall represent and shall be denominated in a principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures of such series to be represented by such Global Debenture, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Global Debenture or its nominee, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Depositary or pursuant to such Depositary's instruction and (iv) unless otherwise specified in such Certified Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto, shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect: "Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for individual certificates evidencing the Debentures represented hereby, this Global Debenture may not be transferred except as a whole (i) by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or (ii) by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or (iii) by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary."
     Notwithstanding Section 2.05, except as otherwise specified in a Certified Resolution, or in an indenture supplemental hereto, as contemplated by Section 2.02, any Global Debenture shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. A Global Debenture shall be exchangeable pursuant to this Section if (x)(i) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Debenture or if at any time the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the Company is unable to arrange for a qualified successor, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that all Global Debentures of any series then outstanding shall be exchangeable for definitive Debentures of such series in registered form or (z) an Event of Default, or an event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default, with respect to the Debentures of the series represented by such Global Debenture has occurred and is continuing. Any Global Debenture of such series that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for definitive Debentures of such series in registered form, bearing interest (if any) at the same rate or pursuant to the same formula, having the same date of issuance, redemption provisions, if any, currency of payment, date of maturity and other terms and of differing denominations aggregating a like amount. Such definitive Debentures of such series shall be registered in the names of the owners of the beneficial interests in such Global Debentures of such series as such names are from time to time provided by the relevant participants in the Depositary holding such Global Debentures (as such participants are identified from time to time by such Depositary).
     No Global Debenture may be transferred except as a whole (i) by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or (ii) by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or (iii) by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. Except as provided above, owners solely
 
of beneficial interest in a Global Debenture shall not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Debentures of such series in definitive form and will not be considered the Holders thereof for any purpose under this Indenture.
     In the event that a Global Debenture is surrendered for redemption in part pursuant to Article Three or Four, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Depositary for such Global Debenture, without service charge, a new Global Debenture in a denomination and tenor equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal for the Global Debenture so surrendered.
     Neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of any beneficial ownership interest in any Global Debenture or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interest. The Agent Members shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Debenture held on their behalf by a Depositary, and such Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee, and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the owner of such Global Debenture for all purposes whatsoever.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, or any agent of the Company or Trustee, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by a Depositary or impair, as between a Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of a Debenture of any series, including without limitation the granting of proxies or other authorization of participants to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which a Holder is entitled to give or take under this Indenture.
     SECTION 2.12. The Company in issuing the Debentures may use one or more "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of repurchase as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Debentures or as contained in any notice of a repurchase and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such repurchase shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
CUSIP Numbers.
provided
     SECTION 3.01. The provisions of this Article Three shall be applicable to any sinking fund established in or pursuant to a Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 or one or more indentures supplemental hereto for the retirement of Debentures of any series, except as otherwise specified in such Certified Resolution or supplemental indenture.
Applicability of Article.
     The sinking fund payment required to be made under the terms of the Debentures of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any sinking fund payment that is not required to be made but is permitted by the terms of the Debentures of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". Unless otherwise provided for by the
 
terms of the Debentures of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 3.02. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of the Debenture of any series as provided for by the terms of the Debentures of such series.
     SECTION 3.02. . The Company may, at its option, as specified by it in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.03 reduce and satisfy the obligation to make a mandatory sinking fund payment in the amount of the redemption price, together with accrued interest to the redemption date on Debentures otherwise to be redeemed, of any Debentures (a) acquired by the Company and delivered by it to the Trustee for cancellation or (b) redeemed otherwise than through the operation of the mandatory sinking fund, and in each case under clauses (a) and (b) delivered or redeemed on or prior to the date of delivery of such Officers' Certificate and not theretofore made the basis for a reduction of a mandatory sinking fund payment.
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Debentures
     SECTION 3.03. Not less than sixty days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Debentures (or such later date as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next succeeding sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Debentures of that series pursuant to Section 3.02 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Debentures to be so credited which have not theretofore been delivered. Not less than thirty days before each such sinking fund payment date, the Trustee shall select the Debentures of such series to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Article Four and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Article Four. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Debentures shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Article Four. In the case of the failure of the Company to deliver such Officers' Certificate when due (or to deliver the Debentures specified in this Section 3.03) the sinking fund payment due on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date for that series shall be paid entirely in cash and shall be sufficient to redeem the principal amount of such Debentures subject to a mandatory sinking fund payment without the option to deliver or credit Debentures as provided in Section 3.02 and without the right to make any optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series.
Redemption of Debentures for Sinking Fund.
     Any sinking fund payment or payments (mandatory or optional) made in cash plus any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payments made in cash which shall equal or exceed $100,000 (or a lesser sum if the Company shall so request) with respect to the Debentures of any particular series shall be applied by the Trustee on the sinking fund payment date on which such payment is made (or, if such payment is made before a sinking fund payment date, on the sinking fund payment date next succeeding the date of such payment) to the redemption of such Debentures at the redemption price specified in such Debentures for operation of the sinking fund, together with accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption. Subject to the provisions of Section 13.05, any sinking fund payment not so applied or allocated by the Trustee to the redemption of Debentures shall be added to the next cash sinking fund payment received by the Trustee for such series and, together with such payment, shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3.03. Subject to the provisions of Section 13.05, any and all sinking fund payments with respect to the Debentures of any particular series held by the Trustee on the last sinking fund payment date with respect to Debentures of such series shall be applied by the
 
Trustee, together with other moneys, if necessary, to be deposited sufficient for the purpose, to the payment of the principal of the Debentures of such series at maturity.
     SECTION 4.01. The provisions of this Article Four shall be applicable to any redemption provisions established in or pursuant to a Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 or one or more indentures supplemental hereto with respect to any series of Debentures, except as otherwise provided in such Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 or supplemental indenture.
Applicability of Article.
     SECTION 4.02. In case the Company shall desire to exercise the right to redeem all, or, as the case may be, any part of the Debentures of any series, as evidenced by a Board Resolution, it shall fix a date for redemption and give notice of such redemption by first class mail postage prepaid at least thirty and not more than sixty days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the holders of Debentures so to be redeemed as a whole or in part at their last addresses as the same appear on the Debenture register. The notice if mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice. In any case, failure to give such notice by mail or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Debenture designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Debenture.
Notice of Redemption; Selection of Debentures.
     Each such notice of redemption shall specify the date fixed for redemption, the redemption price at which such Debentures are to be redeemed, whether the redemption is through operation of a sinking, purchase or analogous fund, the place of payment, that payment will be made upon presentation and surrender of such Debentures, the CUSIP number, that interest accrued (if any) to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in said notice, and that on and after said date interest thereon or on the portions thereof to be redeemed will cease to accrue. If fewer than all the Debentures of a series are to be redeemed, the notice of redemption shall specify the Debentures to be redeemed. In case any Debenture is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed and shall state that on and after the date fixed for redemption, upon surrender of such Debenture, a new Debenture or Debentures of the same series, of authorized denominations, in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued.
     On or prior to the redemption date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in this Section 4.02, the Company will deposit with the Trustee or with one or more paying agents (or, if the Company is acting as its own paying agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 5.04) an amount of money sufficient to redeem on the redemption date all the Debentures so called for redemption at the applicable redemption price, together with accrued interest (if any) to the date fixed for redemption.
     If fewer than all the Debentures of a series are to be redeemed the Company will give the Trustee notice not less than sixty days prior to the redemption date as to the aggregate principal amount of Debentures of such series to be redeemed and the Trustee shall select, in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair, the Debentures of such series or portions thereof to be redeemed.
 
     SECTION 4.03. If notice of redemption has been given as provided in Section 4.02, the Debentures or portions of Debentures so to be redeemed shall become due and payable on the date and at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued (if any) to the date fixed for redemption, and on and after said date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Debentures at the redemption price, together with interest accrued (if any) to said date) interest on such Debentures or such portions of Debentures shall cease to accrue. Upon presentation and surrender of such Debentures at the place of payment in said notice specified, the said Debentures or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and redeemed by the Company at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued thereon (if any) to the date fixed for redemption.
Payment of Debentures Called for Redemption.
     If any Debenture or portion thereof called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and premium, if any, shall, until paid, bear interest from the date fixed for redemption at the rate borne by such Debenture or such portion thereof, or at such other rate provided in the Certified Resolution relating to such Debenture or the supplemental indenture under which such Debenture is issued. Upon presentation and surrender of any Debenture redeemed in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Debenture or Debentures of the same series, of authorized denominations, in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Debenture so presented and surrendered.
     SECTION 4.04. The Company shall be entitled to redeem all, but not part, of the Debentures if as a result of any change in or amendment to the laws, regulations or rulings of the Relevant Tax Jurisdiction or any change in the official application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or rulings, or any change in the official application or interpretation of, or any execution of or amendment to, any treaty or treaties affecting taxation to which such Relevant Tax Jurisdiction is a party (a "Change in Tax Law"), the Payor is or would be required on the occasion of the next payment of principal or interest in respect of the Debentures to pay Additional Amounts pursuant to Section 5.09 and the payment of such Additional Amounts cannot be avoided by the use of any reasonable measures available to the Payor. The Change in Tax Law must become effective on or after the original issue date with respect to the Debentures. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Article IV, the Company must (i) deliver to the trustee at least 30 days before the redemption date an opinion of independent legal counsel of recognized standing to the effect that the Payor has or will become obligated to pay Additional Amounts as a result of such Change in Tax Law and (ii) provide the holders with notice of the intended redemption at least 30 days and no more than 60 days before the redemption date. The redemption price will equal the principal amount of the Debentures plus accrued interest to the redemption date.
Optional Redemption For Tax Reasons.
     SECTION 5.01. With respect to each series of Debentures, the Company covenants and agrees that it will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures of such
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
 
series at the place, at the respective times and in the manner provided in the Debentures of such series.
     SECTION 5.02. So long as any of the Debentures remains outstanding, the Company will maintain in the City and State of New York, an office or agency (which office or agency may differ for different series of Debentures), initially to be located at the principal office of the Trustee, where the Debentures may be presented and surrendered for registration of transfer and for exchange as in this Indenture provided, where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of Debentures or of this Indenture may be served and where Debentures may be presented and surrendered for payment, provided that the Company may maintain in such City a separate office or agency for one or more of the foregoing purposes. The Company will give to the Trustee prompt written notice of the change in the location of such office or agency. In case the Company shall fail to maintain any such office or agency or shall fail to give such notice of the location or of any change in the location thereof, presentations and surrenders may be made and notices and demands may be served at the principal office of the Trustee.
Office for Notices and Payments, Etc.
     SECTION 5.03. The Company, whenever necessary to avoid or fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee, will appoint, in the manner provided in Section 8.10, a Trustee, so that there shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder.
Appointments to Fill Vacancies in Trustee's Office.
     SECTION 5.04. (a) If the Company shall appoint a paying agent other than the Trustee with respect to any series of Debentures, it will cause such paying agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section 5.04, that
Provision as to Paying Agent.
     (1) it will hold all sums held by it as such agent for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Debentures of such series (whether such sums have been paid to it by the Company or by any other obligor on the Debentures of such series) in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Debentures of such series; and
     (2) it will give the Trustee prompt written notice of any failure by the Company (or by any other obligor on the Debentures of such series) to make any payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any of the Debentures of such series when the same shall be due and payable.
     (b) If the Company shall act as its own paying agent with respect to any series of Debentures, it will, on or before each due date for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any of the Debentures of a series, set aside, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of such holders of the Debentures of such series a sum sufficient to pay such principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, so becoming due and will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any failure to take such action and of any failure by the Company (or by any other obligor on such Debentures of such series) to make any payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any of the Debentures of such series when the same shall become due and payable.
     (c) Anything in this Section 5.04 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may, at any time, for the purpose of obtaining a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture in accordance with Sections 13.01 and 13.02, or for any other reason, pay or cause to be paid to
 
the Trustee all sums held in trust by it, or any paying agent hereunder, as required by this Section 5.04, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the trusts herein contained.
     (d) Anything in this Section 5.04 to the contrary notwithstanding, the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this Section 5.04 is subject to Sections 13.03 through 13.05.
     (e) The Company hereby appoints the Trustee to act as paying agent for all series of Debentures, but reserves the right to change the paying agent or to itself act as paying agent.
     SECTION 5.05. So long as any of the Debentures remains outstanding, Cooper Parent will not, and Cooper Parent will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, assume, guarantee or incur any Secured Indebtedness of Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary without in any such case effectively providing concurrently with the creation, assumption, guarantee or incurrence of any such Secured Indebtedness that the Debentures shall be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the option of Cooper Parent, prior to) such Secured Indebtedness but only for so long and during such time as (i) such Secured Indebtedness shall exist and be secured by a Lien and (ii) the aggregate of all Secured Indebtedness not secured solely by Liens described in clauses (a) through (h) of this Section 5.05 and all Attributable Debt outstanding pursuant to, and not excluded from this calculation by, Section 5.06, exceeds 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets; that the foregoing restrictions shall not apply to Secured Indebtedness secured by:
Secured Indebtedness of Cooper Parent and Restricted Subsidiaries.
provided, however,
     (a) Liens on property (including any Shares or Indebtedness) of any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Restricted Subsidiary or arising thereafter pursuant to contractual commitments entered into prior to and not in contemplation of such corporation's becoming a Restricted Subsidiary;
     (b) Liens on property (including any Shares or Indebtedness) existing at the time of acquisition of such property by Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary, or Liens to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price of such property created upon the acquisition of such property by Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary, or Liens to secure any Secured Indebtedness incurred by Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary prior to, at the time of, or within one year after the later of the acquisition, the completion of construction (including any improvements, alterations or repairs to existing property) or the commencement of commercial operation of such property, which Secured Indebtedness is incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or construction or improvements, alterations or repairs thereon; that in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement, alteration or repair the Lien shall not apply to any property theretofore owned by Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary, other than, in the case of any such construction or improvement, any theretofore unimproved real property or portion thereof on which the property so constructed, or the improvement, is located and any other property not then constituting a Principal Property;
provided, however,
     (c) Liens securing Secured Indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary owing to Cooper Parent or to another Restricted Subsidiary;
     (d) Liens on property of a corporation existing at the time such corporation is merged or consolidated with Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of a corporation as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary or arising thereafter pursuant to contractual
 
commitments entered into by such corporation prior to and not in contemplation of such merger, consolidation, sale, lease or other disposition;
     (e) Liens on property of Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary in favor of the United States of America or any State thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any State thereof, or in favor of any other country, or any political subdivision thereof, or in favor of any trustee or mortgagee acting on behalf, or for the benefit of, any of the foregoing, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of construction of the property subject to such Liens (including without limitation Liens incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financings) and any other Liens incurred or assumed in connection with the issuance of industrial revenue or private activity bonds the interest on which is exempt from Federal income taxation pursuant to Section 103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
     (f) Liens existing on the first date on which a Debenture is authenticated by the Trustee;
     (g) Liens on any property (including any Shares or Indebtedness) not constituting a Principal Property;
     (h) Any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) to (g), inclusive; that the principal amount of Secured Indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Secured Indebtedness secured thereby at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the property which secured the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements, alterations and repairs on or to such property) and any other property not then constituting a Principal Property.
provided, however,
     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, Cooper Parent and any one or more Restricted Subsidiaries may create, assume, guarantee or incur Secured Indebtedness which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions in an aggregate amount which, together with (i) all other Secured Indebtedness of Cooper Parent and its Restricted Subsidiaries which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions (not including Secured Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted under clauses (a) through (h) above); and (ii) all Attributable Debt outstanding pursuant to, and not excluded from this calculation by, Section 5.06, does not at the time exceed 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets.
     SECTION 5.06. So long as any of the Debentures remain outstanding, Cooper Parent will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction unless (A) the sum of (i) the Attributable Debt outstanding pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, (ii) all Attributable Debt outstanding pursuant to all other Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into by Cooper Parent and any Restricted Subsidiary after the date on which a Debenture is authenticated by the Trustee, and (iii) the aggregate of all Secured Indebtedness outstanding (excluding the Secured Indebtedness permitted by clauses (a) through (h) of Section 5.05 and further without regard to Secured Indebtedness of Cooper Parent or any Restricted Subsidiary if the Debentures are secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Secured Indebtedness) does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets or (B) an amount equal to the greater of (i) the amount of the net
Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
 
proceeds to Cooper Parent or the Restricted Subsidiary entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction or (ii) the fair market value of such property, as determined by Cooper Parent's Board of Directors (in the case of (i) or (ii), after repayment of, or otherwise taking into account, as the case may be, the amount of any Secured Indebtedness secured by a Lien encumbering such property which Secured Indebtedness existed immediately prior to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction) is applied to retirement of Funded Debt within one year after the consummation of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction; the covenant contained in this Section 5.06 shall not apply to, and there shall be excluded from Attributable Debt in any computation under Section 5.05 or this Section 5.06, Attributable Debt with respect to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction if:
provided, however,
     (1) the Sale and Leaseback Transaction is entered into in connection with the issuance of industrial revenue or private activity bonds the interest on which is exempt from Federal income taxation pursuant to Section 103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
     (2) Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary applies an amount equal to the net proceeds (after repayment of any Secured Indebtedness secured by a Lien encumbering such Principal Property which Secured Indebtedness existed immediately before such Sale and Leaseback Transaction) of the sale or transfer of the Principal Property leased pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction to investment (whether for acquisition, improvement, repair, alteration or construction costs) in another Principal Property within one year prior or subsequent to such sale or transfer;
     (3) such Sale and Leaseback Transaction was entered into by a corporation prior to the date on which such corporation became a Restricted Subsidiary or arises thereafter pursuant to contractual commitments entered into by such corporation prior to and not in contemplation of such corporation's becoming a Restricted Subsidiary; or
     (4) such Sale and Leaseback Transaction was entered into by a corporation prior to the time such corporation was merged or consolidated with Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary or prior to the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such corporation as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to Cooper Parent or a Restricted Subsidiary or arises thereafter pursuant to contractual commitments entered into by such corporation prior to and not in contemplation of such merger, consolidation, sale, lease or other disposition.
     SECTION 5.07. Cooper Parent and the Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in Section 5.05 or 5.06 hereof or provided in a respective Certified Resolution delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.02(A) hereof or in any indenture supplemental hereto with respect to the Debentures of any series, if before or after the time for such compliance the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures of such series at the time outstanding shall, by action of such Debentureholders as provided in Section 9.01, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of Cooper Parent and the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Waiver of Covenants.
 
     SECTION 5.08. So long as any of the Debentures remain outstanding, the Company and Cooper Parent will deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of Cooper Parent (which on the date hereof ends on December 31) ending after the date any series of Debentures is first issued hereunder, an Officers' Certificate (which need not contain the statements provided for in Section 15.05), stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the respective signer thereof (i) the Company is in default in the performance and observance of the terms, provisions and conditions of Section 5.01 or 5.02 and any other covenant of the Company; and (ii) Cooper Parent is in default in the performance and observance of the terms, provisions and conditions of Sections 5.05 or 5.06 and any other covenant of Cooper Parent; provided in a Certified Resolution delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.02(A) hereof or an indenture supplemental hereto, and if the Company or Cooper Parent shall be in default, respectively specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge; neither the Company nor Cooper Parent shall be obligated to make any such statement with respect to any term, provision or condition specified in this Section 5.08 if such term, provision or condition, as the case may be, is applicable only to a series of Debentures none of the Debentures of which are outstanding or with respect to which series the Company has been discharged pursuant to Article Thirteen.
Certificate to Trustee.
provided, however,
     SECTION 5.09. . If any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges are imposed by the jurisdiction, other than the United States, where Cooper Parent or a successor (a "Payor") is organized or otherwise considered to be a resident for tax purposes, any jurisdiction, other than the United States, from or through which the Payor makes a payment on the Debentures, or, in each case, any political organization or governmental authority thereof or therein having the power to tax (the "Relevant Tax Jurisdiction") in respect of any payments under the Debentures, the Payor shall pay to each holder of a Debenture, to the extent it may lawfully do so, such additional amounts ("Additional Amounts") as may be necessary in order that the net amounts paid to such holder will be not less than the amount specified in such Debenture to which such holder is entitled; the Payor shall not be required to make any payment of Additional Amounts for or on account of:
Payment of Additional Amounts
provided, however,
     (a) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge which would not have been imposed but for (i) the existence of any present or former connection between such holder (or between a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of, or possessor of a power over, such holder, if such holder is an estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company or corporation) and the Relevant Tax Jurisdiction including, without limitation, such holder (or such fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member, shareholder or possessor) being or having been a citizen or resident thereof or being or having been present or engaged in a trade or business therein or having or having had a permanent establishment therein or (ii) the presentation of a Debenture (where presentation is required) for payment on a date more than 30 days after (x) the date on which such payment became due and payable or (y) the date on which payment thereof is duly provided for, whichever occurs later;
     (b) any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, transfer, personal property or similar tax, assessment or other governmental charge;
     (c) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge which is payable otherwise than by withholding from payment of (or in respect of) principal of, premium, if any, or any interest on, the Debentures;
 
     (d) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is imposed or withheld by reason of the failure by the holder or the beneficial owner of the Debenture to comply with a request of the Payor addressed to the holder to provide information, documents or other evidence concerning the nationality, residence or identity of the holder or such beneficial owner which is required by a statute, treaty, regulation or administrative practice of the taxing jurisdiction as a precondition to exemption from all or part of such tax, assessment or other governmental charge; or
     (e) any combination of the above;
nor will Additional Amounts be paid with respect to any payment of the principal of, or any premium or interest on, any Debenture to any holder who is a fiduciary or partnership or limited liability company or other than the sole beneficial owner of such payment to the extent such payment would be required by the laws of the Relevant Tax Jurisdiction to be included in the income for tax purposes of a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary or a member of such partnership, limited liability company or beneficial owner who would not have been entitled to such Additional Amounts had it been the holder of such Debenture.
The Payor shall provide the Trustee with the official acknowledgment of the relevant tax authority (or, if such acknowledgment is not available, a certified copy thereof) evidencing the payment of the withholding taxes by the Payor. Copies of such documentation shall be made available to the holders of the Debentures or the paying agent, as applicable, upon request therefor.
     SECTION 6.01. The Company agrees that it will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee, semi-annually, not more than fifteen days after each record date relating to any series of Debentures, or if any series has no record date, not more than fifteen days after January 1 and July 1 in each year, and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing within thirty days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the holders of the applicable series of Debentures, as of a date not more than fifteen days prior to the time such information is furnished; that so long as the Trustee shall be the Debenture registrar for a series, no such list for a series need be furnished.
Debentureholders' Lists.
provided, however,
     SECTION 6.02. (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of the Debentureholders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 6.01 and the names and addresses of Debentureholders received by the Trustee. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 6.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
Preservation and Disclosure of Lists.
     (b) Debentureholders may communicate as provided in Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other Debentureholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities.
     (c) Each and every holder of the Debentures, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee, nor any paying
 
agent, nor any Debenture registrar shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the holders of Debentures in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section 6.02, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under said subsection (b).
     SECTION 6.03. (a) The Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, agrees to file with the Trustee, within thirty days after the Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, is required to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as said Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, may be required to file with said Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or, if the Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of such Sections, then to file with the Trustee and said Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by said Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations.
Reports by the Company or Cooper Parent.
     (b) The Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, agrees to file with the Trustee and the Securities and Exchange Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by said Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, with the conditions and covenants provided for in this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations. The Company will at all times comply with Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
     Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only, and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's and Cooper Parent's, as the case may be, compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to conclusively rely exclusively on an Officers' Certificate).
     (c) Cooper Parent agrees to transmit by mail to all holders of Debentures, as the names and addresses of such holders appear upon the Debenture register, within thirty days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company or Cooper Parent, as applicable, pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 6.03 as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     SECTION 6.04. . (a) Within 60 days after May 15 or each year commencing with the first May 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to the Debentureholders as their names and addresses appear in the Security Registry, a brief report dated as of such May 15, to the extent required under Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Reports by the Trustee
     (b) The Trustee shall comply with Sections 313(b) and 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
     (c) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Debentureholders, be filed by the Trustee with the Company, with each stock exchange upon which any Debentures are listed (if so listed) and also with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Debentures become listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
     SECTION 7.01. "Event of Default" with respect to any series of Debentures means each one of the events specified below in this Section 7.01, unless it is either inapplicable to a particular series or is specifically deleted or modified in the Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such series of Debentures is issued, and any other events as may be specified in the Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such series of Debentures is issued. In case one or more of the following Events of Default shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default.
     (a) default in the payment of any installment of interest upon any of the Debentures of such series, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of thirty days; or
     (b) default in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, on any of the Debentures of such series, as and when the same shall become due and payable (subject to subsection (c) below) either at maturity, upon redemption, by declaration or otherwise; or
     (c) default in the making of any payment for a sinking, purchase or analogous fund provided for in respect of any of the Debentures of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of thirty days; or
     (d) failure on the part of the Company duly to observe or perform any other of the covenants or agreements on the part of the Company in respect of the Debentures of such series, or in this Indenture contained with respect to such series, for a period of ninety days after the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the Company to remedy the same, shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee, or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures of such series at the time Outstanding; or
     (e) entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company by a court having jurisdiction in the premises in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or for any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs and the continuance of such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of ninety consecutive days; or
     (f) commencement by the Company of a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consent by the Company to the
 
entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or consent by the Company to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, custodian, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or for any substantial part of its property, or any general assignment by the Company for the benefit of creditors, or failure by the Company generally to pay its debts as they become due, or the taking by the Company of any corporate action in furtherance of any of the foregoing; or
     (g) failure on the part of the Guarantors duly to observe or perform any other of the covenants or agreements on the part of the Guarantors in respect of the Debentures of such series, or in this Indenture contained with respect to such series, for a period of ninety days after the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the Guarantors to remedy the same, shall have been given to the Guarantors by the Trustee, or to the Guarantors and the Trustee by the holders of at least twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures of such series at the time outstanding; or
     (h) entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of Cooper Parent by a court having jurisdiction in the premises in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of Cooper Parent or for any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs and the continuance of such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of ninety consecutive days; or
     (i) commencement by Cooper Parent of a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consent by Cooper Parent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or consent by Cooper Parent to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, custodian, sequestrator or other similar official of Cooper Parent or for any substantial part of its property, or any general assignment by Cooper Parent for the benefit of creditors, or failure by Cooper Parent generally to pay its debts as they become due, or the taking by Cooper Parent of any corporate action in furtherance of any of the foregoing; or
     (j) the guarantee of any debt security by Cooper Parent ceases to be, or is asserted in writing by Cooper US or Cooper Parent not to be, in full force and effect or enforceable in accordance with its terms (except as otherwise contemplated or permitted by the terms of the Guarantee or this Indenture);
then in the case in which any Event of Default specified in Section 7.01 (e), (f), (h) or (i) shall have occurred, all Applicable Debentures (as hereinafter defined) shall automatically become due and payable immediately without further action or notice, and in each and every case in which any other Event of Default shall have occurred and shall be continuing, unless the principal of all of the Applicable Debentures shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the holders of not less than twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Applicable Debentures then Outstanding hereunder, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by holders of the Applicable Debentures), may declare the principal of all the Applicable Debentures (or such portion thereof as may be provided in the Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such Applicable Debentures are issued) to be due and payable immediately and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, anything contained in this Indenture or in the Applicable Debentures to the contrary notwithstanding. The term "Applicable Debentures" shall mean the Debentures of a series with respect to which an Event of Default shall have
 
occurred and be continuing and unless otherwise specifically provided with respect to a particular series of Debentures in the Certified Resolutions under Section 2.02 relating to such series or any indentures supplemental to this Indenture under which such series of Debentures are issued shall refer to Debentures on a series by series basis such that the provisions hereof shall be applied separately to each series of Debentures affected by such Event of Default. Any declaration pursuant to this Section 7.01 is, however, subject to the condition that if, at any time after the principal of the Applicable Debentures shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the money due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the Company shall pay or shall deposit with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments or interest upon all the Applicable Debentures and the principal of and premium, if any, on any and all Applicable Debentures which shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration, with interest on overdue installments of interest (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) and on such principal and premium, if any, at the rate borne by the Applicable Debentures, or at such other rate as may be provided in the Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such Applicable Debentures are issued, to the date of such payment or deposit, and all sums paid or advances made by the Trustee hereunder and all amounts owing the Trustee under Section 8.06, and any and all Events of Default under this Indenture with respect to the Applicable Debentures, other than the nonpayment of principal of and accrued interest on Applicable Debentures which shall have become due by acceleration, shall have been remedied, cured or waived, then and in every such case the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Applicable Debentures then Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and to the Trustee, may waive all defaults related to such Applicable Debentures and rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences; but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereon.
     In case the Trustee or any of the Debentureholders shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission or annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee or such Debentureholders, then and in every such case the Company and the Trustee and such Debentureholders shall be restored respectively to their several positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company and the Trustee and such Debentureholders shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken.
     SECTION 7.02. ; . The Company covenants that (a) in case defaults shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest upon any of the Applicable Debentures as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of thirty days, or (b) in case default shall be made in the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, on any of the Applicable Debentures as and when the same shall have become due and payable (subject to subsection (c) below), whether at maturity of the Applicable Debentures or upon redemption or by declaration or otherwise, or (c) in case default shall be made in the payment for any sinking, purchase or analogous fund provided for in respect of any of the Applicable Debentures as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of thirty days, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Applicable Debentures, the whole amount that then shall have become due and payable on all such Applicable Debentures for principal and premium, if any, or interest, or both, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Applicable Debentures or at such other rate as may
Payment of Applicable Debentures on Default
Suit Therefor
 
be provided in the Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such Applicable Debentures are issued; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover all amounts owing the Trustee under Section 8.06.
     In case the Company shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any actions or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company or any other obligor on the Applicable Debentures and collect in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor on the Applicable Debentures wherever situated the money adjudged or decreed to be payable.
     In case there shall be pending proceedings for the bankruptcy or for the reorganization of the Company or any other obligor on the Debentures under the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable law, or in case a receiver or trustee shall have been appointed for the property of the Company or such other obligor, or in the case of any similar judicial proceedings relative to the Company or other obligor under the Debentures, or to the creditors or property of the Company or such other obligor, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of the Debentures shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand pursuant to the provisions of this Section 7.02, shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise, to file and prove a claim or claims for the whole amount of principal, premium and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Debentures, and to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any amounts owing the Trustee under Section 8.06) and of the holders of Debentures allowed in such judicial proceedings relative to the Company or any other obligor on the Debentures, its or their creditors, or its or their property, and to collect and receive any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims, and to distribute the same after the deduction of its charges and expenses; and any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby authorized by each of the holders of Debentures to make such payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Debentureholders, to pay to the Trustee any amounts owing the Trustee under Section 8.06 up to the date of such distribution.
     All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the Debentures of any series, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Debentures of such series, or the production thereof on any trial or other proceeding relative thereto, and any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall be for the ratable benefit of the holders of the Debentures of such series.
     Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Debentureholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Debentures or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Debentureholder in any such proceeding.
 
     SECTION 7.03. . Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article with respect to a series of Debentures shall be applied in the order following, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee for the distribution of such money, upon presentation of the several Debentures of such series, and stamping thereon the payment, if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid.
Application of Money Collected by Trustee
     : To the payment of all amounts owing the Trustee under Section 8.06;
First
     : In case the principal on none of the Outstanding Debentures of such series shall have become due and be unpaid, to the payment of interest, if any, which has become due and is unpaid on the Debentures of such series, in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest, with interest (to the extend permitted by applicable law and to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon the overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Debentures or at such other rate as may be provided in the Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such series of Debentures is issued (such payments to be made ratably to the Persons entitled thereto);
Second
     : In case the principal of any of the Outstanding Debentures of such series shall have become due, by declaration or otherwise, to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid upon the Debentures of such series for principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, with interest on the overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent permitted by applicable law and to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Debentures of such series or at such other rate as may be provided in the Certified Resolution under Section 2.02 relating to such series or any supplemental indenture under which such series of Debentures is issued; and in case such money shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amounts so due and unpaid upon the Debentures of such series, then to the payment of such principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, without preference or priority of principal and premium, if any, over interest, if any, of interest over principal and premium, if any, or if any installment of interest over any other installment of interest, or of any Debenture of such series over any other Debenture of such series ratably to the aggregate of such principal, premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any; and
Third
     : To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company, its successors or assigns, or to whosoever may be lawfully entitled to receive the same, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
Fourth
     SECTION 7.04. . No holder of any Applicable Debenture of any series shall have any right by virtue of or by availing himself of any provision of this Indenture to institute any suit, action or proceeding in equity or at law upon or under or with respect to this Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, in each case with respect to an Event of Default related to such Applicable Debentures, unless such holder previously shall have given to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee written notice of default with respect to the Applicable Debentures of such series and of the continuance thereof, as hereinbefore provided, and unless also the holders of not less than twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of such Applicable Debentures then outstanding shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own name as Trustee hereunder and shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee for sixty days after its
Proceedings by Debentureholders
 
receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity, shall have failed to institute any such action, suit or proceeding and no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee during such sixty-day period by the holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Debentures, it being understood and intended and being expressly covenanted by the holder of every Debenture of a series with every other holder of a Debenture of such series and the Trustee, that no one or more holders of Debentures of such series shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of or by availing himself or themselves of any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other holder of such Debentures, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such holder, or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all holders of Debentures of such series.
     Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Indenture, the right of any holder of any Debenture, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on such Debenture, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Debenture, or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such holder.
     SECTION 7.05. In case an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing hereunder with respect to any Applicable Debentures, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either by suit in equity or by action at law or by proceeding in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture with respect to such Applicable Debentures, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law.
Proceeding by Trustee.
     SECTION 7.06. All powers and remedies given by this Article Seven to the Trustee or to the holders of Debentures of any series shall, to the extend permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive of any thereof or of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the holders of the Debentures of such series, by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture, and no delay or omission of the Trustee or of any holder of any of the Debentures of a series to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or an acquiescence therein; and, subject to the provisions of Section 7.04, every power and remedy given by this Article Seven or by law to the Trustee or to the Debentureholders of a series may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Debentureholders of such series.
Remedies Cumulative and Continuing.
     SECTION 7.07. . The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures of any series at the time outstanding shall have the right to direct the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Debentures of such series; that (subject to the provisions of Section 8.01) the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee being advised by counsel determines that the action or proceeding so directed may not lawfully be taken or if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or trustees, executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees and/or Responsible Officers shall determine that the action or proceedings so directed would involve the Trustee in
Direction of Proceedings and Waiver of Defaults by Majority of Debentureholders
provided, however,
 
personal liability or would be unduly prejudicial to the holders of Debentures of such series not joining in such direction. Prior to any declaration accelerating the maturity of the Debentures of any series, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures of such series at the time outstanding may, on behalf of the holders of all of the Debentures of such series, waive any past default or Event of Default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences except a default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, or any of the Debentures of such series, or in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Eleven cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each outstanding Debenture of such series affected. Upon any such waiver the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Debentures of such series shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default (as defined in Section 7.08) or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Whenever any default or Event of Default hereunder shall have been waived as permitted by this Section 7.07 said default or Event of Default shall for all purposes of the Debentures of such series and this Indenture be deemed to have been cured and to be not continuing.
     SECTION 7.08. The Trustee shall, within ninety days after the occurrence of a default (as hereinafter defined) with respect to the Debentures of any series, mail to all holders of Debentures of such series, as the names and addresses of such holders appear upon the Debenture register, notice of all such defaults known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, unless such defaults shall have been cured before the giving of such notice (the term "default" for the purpose of this Section 7.08 being hereby defined to be any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Debentures of such series); and provided that, except in the case of default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any of the Debentures of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors or trustees, the executive committee, or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Debentureholders of such series.
Notice of Defaults.
     SECTION 7.09. All parties to this Indenture agree, and each holder of any Debenture by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, have due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section 7.09 shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit institute by any Debentureholder, or group of Debentureholders, holding in the aggregate more than ten percent in principal amount of the Debentures of any series outstanding, or to any suit instituted by any holder of a Debenture of any series for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Debenture of such series on or after the due date expressed in such Debenture.
Undertaking to Pay Costs.
     SECTION 7.10. The Company covenants and agrees (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
 
execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
     SECTION 8.01.The Trustee prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default and after the curing of all Events of Default which may have occurred and are continuing, undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture. In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (which has not been cured or waived) the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee.
     No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that
     (a) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default which may have occurred:
     (1) the duties and obligations of the Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
     (2) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture;
     (b) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
     (c) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Debentures of any series at the time Outstanding determined as provided in Section 9.04 relating to the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee with respect to the Debentures of such series, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee with respect to the Debentures of such series under this Indenture; and
 
     (d) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
     SECTION 8.02. Except as otherwise provided in Section 8.01:
Reliance on Documents, Opinions, Etc.
     (a) the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond, debenture or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
     (b) any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed); and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be evidenced to the Trustee by a Certified Resolution;
     (c) the Trustee may consult with counsel and any advice or Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel;
     (d) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Debentureholders pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Debentureholders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred therein or thereby;
     (e) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
     (f) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to any series of Debentures hereunder and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default with respect to such series of Debentures, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond, debenture or other paper or document with respect to such series of Debentures, unless requested in writing to do so by the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of Debentures of such series then outstanding; , that if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require reasonable indemnity against such expenses or liability as a condition to so proceeding;
provided, however
     (g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder directly or by or through agents or counsel, and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or counsel appointed with due care by it hereunder;
 
     (h) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of any Event of Default or defaults hereunder unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have actual knowledge thereof or unless the holders of not less than twenty-five percent of the outstanding Debentures of any series as to which there exists an Event of Default or default gives notice of such Event of Default or default; and
     (i) the permissive rights of the Trustee enumerated herein shall not be construed as duties.
     SECTION 8.03. The recitals contained herein and in the Debentures (except in the Trustee's certificate of authentication) shall be taken as the statements of the Company and the Guarantors, as applicable, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Debentures. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of any Debentures or the proceeds thereof.
Responsibility for Recitals, Etc.
     SECTION 8.04. . The Trustee, any paying agent, Debenture registrar or any other agent of the Company in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Debentures with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent, Debenture registrar or such other agent.
Trustee, Paying Agent or Debenture Registrar May Own Debentures
     SECTION 8.05. . Subject to the provisions of Section 13.04, all money received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which it was received. Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Money to Be Held in Trust
     SECTION 8.06. . The Company agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, reasonable compensation (which to the extent permitted by law shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust), and the Company will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all Persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its negligence or bad faith. The Company and the Guarantors jointly and severally also agree to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee and arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust or the performance of its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim of liability in the premises. The obligation of the Company under this Section 8.06 to compensate the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder. Such additional indebtedness shall be secured by a lien prior to that of the Debentures upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the holders of particular Debentures.
Compensation and Expenses of Trustee
     When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 7.01(e) or Section 7.01(f), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency
 
or other similar law. The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee.
     SECTION 8.07. . Except as otherwise provided in Section 8.01, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or omitting any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and such Certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof.
Officers' Certificate as Evidence
     SECTION 8.08. . If the Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee and the Company shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Conflicting Interest of Trustee
     SECTION 8.09. . The Trustee hereunder shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or any State or Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least five million dollars, subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State, Territorial, or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 8.09, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with provisions of this Section 8.09, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 8.10. Neither the Company nor a person directly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Company shall serve as Trustee.
Eligibility of Trustee
     SECTION 8.10. . (a) The Trustee may at any time resign with respect to the Debentures of one or more series by giving written notice of such resignation to the Company. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor Trustee. If no successor Trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within sixty days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee, or any holder of a Debenture of such series who has been a bona fide holder of a Debenture or Debentures of such series for at least six months may, subject to the provisions of Section 7.09, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor Trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor Trustee.
Resignation or Removal of Trustee
     (b) In case at any time any of the following shall occur:
 
     (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of subsection (a) of Section 8.08 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Debentureholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Debenture or Debentures for at least six months, or
     (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Debentureholder, or
     (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any case, the Company may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor Trustee, or, subject to the provisions of Section 7.09, any Debentureholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Debenture or Debentures for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may, thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee.
     (c) The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures of a series at the time Outstanding may at any time remove the Trustee as to that series and appoint a successor Trustee as to that series.
     (d) Any resignation or removal of the Trustee and any appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section 8.10 shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee as provided in Section 8.11.
     (e) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the holders of Debentures as their names and addresses appear in the register. Each such notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its principal corporate trust office. If the Company fails to give such notice within ten days after acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee, the successor Trustee shall cause such notice to be given, at the expense of the Company.
     SECTION 8.11. . Any successor Trustee appointed as provided in Section 8.10 shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to its predecessor Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as Trustee herein; but nevertheless, on the written request of the Company or of the successor Trustee, the Trustee ceasing to act shall, upon payment of any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.06, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights and powers of the Trustee so ceasing to act. Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments in writing in order more
Acceptance by Successor Trustee
 
fully and certainly to vest in and confirm to such successor Trustee all such rights and powers. Any Trustee ceasing to act shall, nevertheless, retain a lien upon all property or funds held or collected by such Trustee to secure any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.06.
     No successor Trustee shall accept appointment as provided in this Section 8.11 unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 8.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 8.09.
     In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Debentures of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the Guarantors, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Debentures of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein such successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Debentures of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Debentures, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Debentures of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees as co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Debentures of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee (subject to the provisions of Section 8.06) shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Debentures of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates, and upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company and the Guarantors shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all rights, powers and trusts referred to in this subsection.
     SECTION 8.12. . Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto.
Succession by Merger, Etc
     In case at the time such successor Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture with respect to one or more series of Debentures, any of such Debentures shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee and deliver such Debentures so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Debentures shall not have been authenticated, any successor Trustee
 
may authenticate such Debentures either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in such Debentures or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have; , that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or authenticate Debentures in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
provided, however
     SECTION 8.13. . The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship described in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent included therein.
Limitation on Rights of Trustee as a Creditor
     SECTION 9.01. . Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures of any series may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action) the fact that at any time of taking any such action the holders of such specified percentage have joined therein may be evidenced (a) by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by such Debentureholders in person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing, or (b) by the record of the holders of such Debentures voting in favor thereof at any meeting of such Debentureholders duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article Ten, or (c) by a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record of such a meeting of such Debentureholders.
Action by Debentureholders
     SECTION 9.02. . Subject to the provisions of Sections 8.01, 8.02 and 10.05, proof of the execution of any instrument by a Debentureholder or his agent or proxy shall be sufficient if made in accordance with such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Trustee or in such manner as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. The ownership of Debentures shall be proved by the Debenture register or by a certificate of the Debenture registrar.
Proof of Execution by Debentureholders
     The record of any Debentureholders' meeting shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 10.06.
     SECTION 9.03.. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of any Debenture, the Company, the Trustee, or the paying agent and any Debenture registrar may deem the Person in whose name any Debentures shall be registered upon the Debenture register to be, and may treat him as, the absolute owner of such Debenture (whether or not such Debenture shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing on such Debenture) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on such Debenture and for all other purposes; and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent nor any Debenture registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All such payments so made to any registered holder for the time
Who Deemed Absolute Owners
 
being, or upon his order shall be valid, and, to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for money payable upon any such Debenture.
     SECTION 9.04. . In determining whether the holder of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Debentures have concurred in any request, demand, authorization, notice, direction, consent or waiver under the Indenture, Debentures which are owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Debentures or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any other obligor on the Debentures shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding for the purpose of any such determination; provided that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such request, demand, authorization, notice, direction, consent or waiver, only Debentures which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Debentures so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as outstanding for the purposes of this Section 9.04 if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right to vote such debentures and that the pledgee is not a Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company or any such other obligor. In the case of a dispute as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel shall be full protection to the Trustee.
Company-Owned Debentures Disregarded
     SECTION 9.05. . At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in Section 9.01, of the taking of any action by the holders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures of any series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any holder of a Debenture the serial number of which is shown by the evidence to be included in such Debentures the holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice with the Trustee at its principal office and upon proof of holding as provided in Section 9.02, revoke such action so far as concerns such Debenture. Except as aforesaid any such action taken by the holder of any Debenture of any series shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of such Debenture and of any Debenture issued in exchange or substitution therefor, irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Debenture.
Revocation of Consents; Future Holders Bound
     SECTION 10.01. . A meeting of Debentureholders may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to the provisions of this Article Ten for any of the following purposes:
Purposes of Meetings
     (1) to give any notice to the Company or to the Trustee, or to give any directions to the Trustee, or to consent to the waiving of any default hereunder and its consequences, or to take any other action authorized to be taken by Debentureholders pursuant to any of the provisions of Article Seven;
     (2) to remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee pursuant to the provisions of Article Eight;
 
     (3) to consent to the execution of an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto pursuant to the provisions of Section 11.02; or
     (4) to take any other action authorized to be taken by or on behalf of the holders of any specified aggregate principal amount of the Debentures under any other provision of this Indenture or under applicable law.
     SECTION 10.02.. The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Debentureholders to take any action specified in Section 10.01, to be held at such time and at such place in the City and State of New York or in the City of Houston, Texas, as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of the Debentureholders, setting forth the time and place of such meeting and in general terms the actions proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be mailed to holders of Debentures of all series that may be affected by the action proposed to be taken at the meeting at their addresses as they shall appear on the Debenture register. Such notice shall be mailed not less than twenty nor more than ninety days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
Call of Meetings by Trustee
     SECTION 10.03. . In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a resolution of its Board of Directors, or the holders of at least ten percent in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures then outstanding of all series that may be affected by the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Debentureholders of all series that may be so affected by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have mailed the notice of such meeting within twenty days after receipt of such request, then the Company or such Debentureholders may determine the time and the place in New York, New York, or in Houston, Texas for such meeting and may call such meeting to take any action authorized in Section 10.01, by mailing notice thereof as provided in Section 10.02.
Call of Meetings by Company or Debentureholders
     SECTION 10.04. . To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Debentureholders a Person shall (a) be a holder of one or more Debentures of a series affected by the action proposed to be taken at the meeting or (b) be a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy by a holder of one or more such Debentures. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Debentureholders shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel and any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
Qualifications for Voting
     SECTION 10.05. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Debentureholders, in regard to proof of the holding of Debentures and of the appointment of proxies, and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem fit.
Regulations
     The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Debentureholders as provided in Section 10.03, in which case the Company or the Debentureholders calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by majority vote of the meeting.
 
     Subject to the provisions of Section 9.04, at any meeting each Debentureholder of a series or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount (or corresponding denomination if the Debentures are not in U.S. dollars) (or such other principal amount equal to the authorized minimum denomination) of Debentures of such series held or represented by him; , that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Debenture challenged as not outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote other than by virtue of Debentures of such series held by him or instruments in writing as aforesaid duly designating him as the Person to vote on behalf of other Debentureholders of such series. Any meeting of Debentureholders duly called pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.02 or 10.03 may be adjourned from time to time by a majority of those present, whether or not constituting a quorum, and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
provided, however
     SECTION 10.06. . The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Debentureholders of a series or all series to be affected thereby, as the case may be, shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the holders of Debentures of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the serial number or numbers of the Debentures of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record in duplicate of the proceedings of each meeting of Debentureholders shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was mailed as provided in Section 10.02. The record shall show the serial numbers of the Debentures voting in favor of or against any resolution. The record shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one of the duplicates shall be delivered to the Company and the other to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee.
Voting
     Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
     SECTION 11.01. . The Company and the Guarantors, each when authorized by a resolution of its Board of Directors, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for one or more of the following purposes:
Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Debentureholders
     (a) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company or a Guarantor, or successive successions, and the assumption by the successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company or a Guarantor, as the case may be, pursuant to Article Twelve hereof:
     (b) to add to the covenants of the Company or a Guarantor such further Events of Default, covenants, restrictions or conditions, for the protection of the holders of the Debentures of any
 
series as the Board of Directors of the Company or the Guarantors shall consider to be for the protection of the holders of Debentures of such series, and to make the occurrence or the occurrence and continuance of an Event of Default or a default in any of such additional covenants, restrictions or conditions a default or an Event of Default permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in this Indenture as herein set forth; , that in respect of any such additional Event of Default, covenant, restriction or condition such supplemental indenture may provide for a particular period of grace after default (which period may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other defaults) or may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such default or Event of Default or may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such default or Event of Default;
provided, however
     (c) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture or Debentures of a series which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture or Debentures of a series, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under this Indenture or any supplemental indenture or Debentures of a series which shall not adversely affect the interests of the holders of the Debentures;
     (d) to provide for the issuance of a particular series of Debentures in bearer form with or without interest coupons;
     (e) to provide for beneficial ownership of all or a portion of a particular series of Debentures to be evidenced by electronic book-entry (i) at a Depositary, (ii) on the records of the Company, its agent or a third party other than a Depositary, with the Company, its agent or a third party holding a certificate or certificates representing such Debentures or portion thereof, or (iii) any combination of (i) and (ii); provision may be made that beneficial owners shall not have the right to obtain certificates for such Debentures or portion thereof;
     (f) at the Company's option, to set forth some or all of the terms of the Debentures of a particular series in lieu of setting forth such terms in a Certified Resolution pursuant to Section 2.02;
     (g) to provide for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to one or more series of Debentures pursuant to Section 8.11; or
     (h) to provide for an authenticating agent for the Trustee.
     The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Company and the Guarantors in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer and assignment of any property thereunder, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to, but may in its discretion, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
     Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section 11.01 may be executed by the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee without the consent of the holders of any of the Debentures at the time outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 11.02.
 
     SECTION 11.02. . With the consent (evidenced as provided in Section 9.01) of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Debentures at the time outstanding of each series to be affected, the Company and the Guarantors, each when authorized by a resolution of its Board of Directors, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date of the execution thereof) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or Debentures of a series or of modifying in any manner the rights of the holders of the Debentures of such series to be affected; , that no such supplemental indenture shall (i) change the fixed maturity (which term shall not include payments due pursuant to any sinking, purchase or analogous fund) of any Debentures, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, change the redemption provisions in any manner that would be adverse to any holder or adversely affect the right of repayment at the option of any holder, change the coin or currency in which the principal of or any premium or interest thereon is payable, impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the stated maturity of any Debentures or, in the case of redemption, on or after the redemption date or, in the case of repayment at the option of any holder, on or after the redemption date, or modify any of the provisions regarding the waiver of past defaults and the waiver of specified covenants by the holders of the Debentures, without the consent of the holder of each Debenture so affected, (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Debentures of any series, the consent of the holders of which is required for any such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the holders of all Debentures of such series then outstanding or (iii) modify any of the foregoing, without the consent of the holder of each Debenture so affected.
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Debentureholders
provided, however
     Upon the request of the Company and the Guarantors, accompanied by a copy of the resolutions of each of their respective Boards of Directors certified by their respective Secretaries or any Assistant Secretaries authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indentures, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Debentureholders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company and the Guarantors in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture.
     It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Debentureholders under this Section 11.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
     SECTION 11.03.. Any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to the provision of this Article Eleven shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as then in effect. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article Eleven, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitation of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company, the Guarantors and the holders of all of the Debentures or of the Debentures of any series affected, as the case may be, shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
 
     SECTION 11.04. . Debentures authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article Eleven may, but need not, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company or the Trustee shall so determine, new Debentures so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company's Board of Directors, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Debentures then outstanding.
Notation on Debentures
     SECTION 11.05. . The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 8.01 and 8.02, shall, in addition to the documents required by Section 15.05, receive an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article (i) is authorized or permitted by, and conforms to, the terms of this Article and (ii) complies with all conditions precedent relating to such supplemental indenture.
Evidence of Compliance of Supplemental Indenture to be Furnished Trustee
     SECTION 12.01.. The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other corporation or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Company May Consolidate, Etc. Only on Certain Terms
     (1) the corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State or District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Debentures and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
     (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice of lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
     (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article Twelve and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with; , the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this Section 12.01.
provided, however
     SECTION 12.02. . Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 12.01, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation
Successor Corporation Substituted
 
or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein; and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Company (which term shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in Section 12.01) shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and in respect of the Debentures and may be dissolved and liquidated.
     SECTION 12.03. . Cooper Parent shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Cooper Parent May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms
     (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of Cooper Parent substantially as an entirety shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, Cooper Parent's guarantee of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Debentures and Cooper Parent's guarantee of the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
     (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
     (3) Cooper Parent has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article Twelve and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with; the Opinion of Counsel shall not be required to include any opinion with respect to the condition set forth in paragraph (2) of this Section 12.03.
provided, however,
     SECTION 12.04. Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of Cooper Parent substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 12.03, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which Cooper Parent is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Cooper Parent under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as Cooper Parent herein; and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, Cooper Parent (or any successor corporation which shall have theretofore become such in the manner prescribed in Section 12.03), shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee and in respect of the Debentures and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Successor Corporation Substituted.
     SECTION 12.05. .
Consolidation, Merger, Etc. of Subsidiary Guarantors
     (a) If any Guarantor, other than Cooper Parent, consolidates with, merges into, or conveys or transfers its assets substantially as an entirety to Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary:
 
     (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which such Guarantor is merged or the Person which acquired by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of such Guarantor substantially as an entirety shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, such Person's guarantee of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Debentures and guarantee of the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of such Guarantor to be performed or observed; and
     (2) such Guarantor shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee and in respect of the Debentures and may be dissolved and liquidated.
     (b) If any Guarantor, other than Cooper Parent, ceases to be a Subsidiary or consolidates with, merges into, or conveys or transfers its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to a Person other than Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary, such Guarantor shall be discharged from all liability under this Indenture and its Guarantee in accordance with Section 16.02(b).
     SECTION 13.01. . When (a) the Company shall deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Debentures of a series theretofore authenticated (other than any Debentures of such series which shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.06) and not theretofore cancelled; or (b) all the Debentures of such series not theretofore cancelled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and the Company shall deposit with the Trustee, in trust, funds sufficient to pay at maturity or upon redemption all for the Debentures of such series (other than any Debentures of such series which shall have been mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.06) not theretofore cancelled or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal and premium, if any, and interest, if any, due or to become due to such date of maturity or redemption date, as the case may be, but excluding, however, the amount of any money for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Debentures of such series (1) theretofore deposited with the Trustee with respect to Debentures of such series and repaid by the Trustee to the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 13.05 or (2) paid with respect to Debentures of such series to any State or to the District of Columbia pursuant to its unclaimed property or similar laws, and if in either case the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect with respect to the Debentures of such series except as to (A) the rights of Holders of Debentures of such series to receive solely from funds deposited by the Company with the Trustee, in trust as described above in this Section 13.01, payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and the interest, if any, on such Debentures when such payments are due; (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Debentures under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 5.02 and 13.03; and (C) the rights, powers, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder, and the Trustee, on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent herein
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
 
provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute such instruments as may be requested by the Company acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to such series of Debentures. Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Debentures, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 8.06 shall survive.
     SECTION 13.02. . At the Company's option, either (a) the Company shall be deemed to have been Discharged (as defined below) from its obligations with respect to any series of Debentures on the ninety-first day after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied or (b) the Company shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 5.05, 5.06 and 12.01 with respect to any series of Debentures and any other covenants provided in a Certified Resolution delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.02(A) hereof or an indenture supplemental hereto with respect to such series of Debentures at any time after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied:
Defeasance Upon Deposit of Money, U.S. Government Obligations or Eligible Obligations
     (1) the Company shall have deposited or caused to be deposited irrevocably with the Trustee as trust funds in trust, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of the Debentures of such series (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations and/or Eligible Obligations which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one business day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination of (A) and (B), sufficient, in the opinion (with respect to (A) and (B)) of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants selected by the Company expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge each installment of principal (including mandatory sinking fund payments) of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Outstanding Debentures of such series on the dates such installments of principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, are due (taking into account any redemption pursuant to optional sinking fund payments notice of which redemption is provided to the Trustee at the time of the deposit referred to in this paragraph (1));
     (2) if the Debentures of such series are then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Company's exercise of its option under this paragraph would not cause such Debentures to be delisted;
     (3) no Event of Default with respect to the Debentures of such series under Section 7.01(a), 7.01(b), 7.01(c), 7.01(e) or 7.01(f) of this Indenture shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit and the Company shall have furnished an Officers' Certificate to such effect;
     (4) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee (a) an Opinion of Counsel or (b) a ruling from, or published by, the Internal Revenue Service, whichever of (a) or (b) the Company shall determine, to the effect that Holders of the Debentures of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the Company's exercise of its option under this Section 13.02 and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such option had not been exercised.
 
     "Discharged" means, for purposes of this Section 13.02, that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by, and obligations under, the Debentures of such series and to have satisfied all the obligations under this Indenture relating to the Debentures of such series (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute such instruments as may be requested by the Company acknowledging the same), except (A) the rights of Holders of Debentures of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in clause (1) above, payment of the principal, premium, if any, and the interest, if any, on such Debentures when such payments are due; (B) the Company' obligations with respect to such Debentures under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 5.02 and 13.03; and (C) the rights, powers, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder. Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Debentures, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 8.06 shall survive.
     SECTION 13.03.. All money, U.S. Government Obligations and Eligible Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 13.01 or 13.02 and with respect to U.S. Government Obligations and Eligible Obligations, the principal and interest in respect thereof, shall be held irrevocably in trust and applied by it to the payment in accordance with the provisions of the Debentures and this Indenture, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company if acting as its own paying agent), to the holders of the particular Debentures for the payment or redemption of which such money has been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall promptly pay to the Company, upon written request of the Company, any excess money, U.S. Government Obligations or Eligible Obligations held by the Trustee at any time.
Deposited Money, U.S. Government Obligations and Eligible Obligations to be Held in Trust by Trustee
     SECTION 13.04. . Upon the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, all money then held by any paying agent of the Debentures (other than the Trustee) shall, upon demand of the Company, be repaid to it or paid to the Trustee, and thereupon such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Paying Agent to Repay Money Held
     SECTION 13.05. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Indenture (including, but not limited to, the provisions of Section 13.03), any amounts deposited with or paid to the Trustee for payment of any portion of the principal of (which term shall for these purposes include payments due pursuant to any sinking, purchase or analogous fund), premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Debentures and not applied but remaining unclaimed by the holders of such Debentures for two years after the date upon which such portion of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on such Debentures, as the case may be, shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee on demand; and the holder of any of such Debentures shall thereafter look only to the Company for any payment which such holder may be entitled to collect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trustee, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense and at the written request of the Company mail to such holder or cause to be published once a week for two successive weeks (in each case on any day of the week) in a newspaper printed in the English language and customarily published at least once a day at least five days in each calendar week and of general circulation in the City and State of New York, a notice that said amounts have not been so applied and that after a date named therein any unclaimed balance of said amounts then remaining will be promptly returned to the Company.
Return of Unclaimed Amounts
 
     SECTION 13.06. . If the Trustee or any Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 13.01 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Debentureholders shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 13.01 until such time as the Trustee or such Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 13.02.
Reinstatement
 
     SECTION 14.01. . No recourse for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Debenture, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, or in any Debenture, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or a Guarantor or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or a Guarantor or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Debentures.
Indenture and Debentures Solely Corporate Obligations
     SECTION 15.01. . All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not.
Provisions Binding on Company's Successors
     SECTION 15.02. . Any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture authorized or required to be done or performed by any board, committee or officer of the Company shall and may be done and performed with like force and effect by the like board, committee or officer of any corporation that shall at the time be the lawful sole successor of the Company.
Official Acts by Successor Corporation
     SECTION 15.03. . Any notice or demand which by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the holders of Debentures on the Company shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or served, for all purposes, if given or served in writing (until another address is filed by the Company with the Trustee) to Cooper US, Inc., Suite 5800, 600 Travis, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention: Treasurer. Any notice, direction, request or demand by any Debentureholder to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or served, for all purposes, if given or served in writing at the principal office of the Trustee which at the date of this Indenture is 4 New York Plaza, New York New York 10004, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services.
Addresses for Notices, Etc
     SECTION 15.04. . This Indenture and each Debenture shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the said State.
New York Contract
     SECTION 15.05. . Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed
Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent
 
action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
     Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provide for in this Indenture shall include (A) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (B) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinion contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (C) a statement that in the opinion of such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (D) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
     SECTION 15.06. . In any case where the date of maturity of interest on or principal of the Debentures of any series or the date fixed for redemption of any Debenture of any series shall be in the City and State of New York a Saturday, a Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions are authorized by law to close, then payment or such interest on or principal and premium, if any, need not be made on such date but may be made on the next succeeding Banking Day not in such city a Saturday, a Sunday, nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized by law to close with the same force and effect as if made on the date of maturity or the date fixed for redemption and no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such date.
Legal Holidays
     SECTION 15.07. . If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of Sections 310 and 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, such required provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act to Control
     SECTION 15.08. . If the provisions of any series of Debentures issued hereunder are inconsistent or conflict with the provisions of this Indenture, the provisions of the Debentures of such series shall be controlling with respect to such series.
Debentures Controlling in the Event of Inconsistencies Between Indenture and Debentures
     SECTION 15.09. . The table of contents and the titles and headings of the articles and sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc
     SECTION 15.10. . This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Execution in Counterparts
     SECTION 15.11. (a) Each of the Company and the Guarantors agree, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, that (i) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of or interest on the Debentures of any series (the "Required Currency") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the "Judgment Currency"), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee for such Debentures could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency at 10:00 A.M. New York City time, or as close to such time as is reasonably practicable, on the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered, unless such
Judgment Currency; Service of Process.
 
day is not a Banking Day, then, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures such Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency at 10:00 A.M. New York City time, or as close to such time as is reasonably practicable, on the Banking Day preceding the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered and (ii) its obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (x) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with this subsection (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (y) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable and (z) shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Indenture. For purposes of the foregoing, "Banking Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in The City of New York or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close. Except as provided in Section 8.01, in no event shall the Trustee be liable for any shortfall relating to the purchase of the Required Currency.
     (b) The Guarantors hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the Company, 600 Travis, Suite 5800, Houston, Texas as its authorized agent with respect to any suit, action or proceeding based on or arising out of or relating to this Indenture or any Debentures or the Guarantee, it being understood that the designation and appointment of the Company as such authorized agent shall become effective immediately without any further action on the part of the Guarantors. The Guarantors further agree that service of process upon the Company and written notice of said service to the Guarantors mailed by prepaid registered first class mail or delivered to the Company at its principal office, shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon the Guarantors, as applicable, in any such suit, action or proceeding.
     SECTION 16.01. . Except as otherwise provided herein, the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally guarantee to each Holder of a Debenture authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, including all obligations hereunder of the Company to the Trustee, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the Debentures and of this Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company punctually to make any such payment, the Guarantors hereby agree to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption, upon a repurchase date or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company. The Guarantors agree that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Debentures or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same or any release (other than by operation of Article Thirteen), amendment, waiver or indulgence granted to the Company or the Guarantors or any consent to departure from
Guarantee
 
any requirement of any other guarantee of all or any of the Debentures or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. The Guarantors hereby waive the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to the Debentures or the Indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenant that this Guarantee will not be discharged in respect of the Debentures except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Debentures and in such Guarantee. The Guarantors agree that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Debentures, to collect any principal, interest or premium, if any, on the Debentures, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Debentures, the Guarantors agree to pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
     The Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Debentures upon which its Guarantee is endorsed against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Guarantors on account of the Debentures pursuant to the provisions of its Guarantee or this Indenture; provided, however, that the Guarantors shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all Debentures issued hereunder shall have been paid in full.
     This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Debentures, is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any holder of the Debentures, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer," or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Debentures shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
     Any term or provision of this Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to prevent this Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
     SECTION 16.02. .
Release of Guarantee
     (a) Notwithstanding anything in this Article Sixteen to the contrary, concurrently with the payment in full of (i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures; and (ii) all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture, each of the Guarantors shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this Article Sixteen. Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the
 
effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Debentures, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of each of the Guarantors from its obligations under this Guarantee. If any of the obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of the Company are revived and reinstated after the termination of this Guarantee, then all of the obligations of the Guarantors under this Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Debentures and all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture are paid in full, and the Guarantors shall enter into an amendment to this Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
     (b) Notwithstanding anything in this Article Sixteen to the contrary, concurrently with the time that any Guarantor, other than Cooper Parent, ceases to be a Subsidiary (other than by such Guarantor's consolidation with, or merger into, Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary) or such Guarantor conveys or transfers its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to a Person other than Cooper Parent or another Subsidiary, then such Guarantor shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this Article Sixteen. Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 16.02(b), the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the such Guarantor from its obligations under this Guarantee.
 
     , N.A. hereby accepts the trusts in this Indenture declared and provided, upon the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.
JPMorgan Chase Bank
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Cooper US, Inc. has caused this Indenture to be signed by its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer, and the same to be attested by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. has caused this Indenture to be signed by one of its duly authorized officers as of the day and year first written above.
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.2
     This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated November 8, 2005 (the "Agreement") is entered into by and among Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), Cooper Industries, Ltd., a company existing under the laws of Bermuda ("Parent"), the subsidiaries (the "Subsidiary Guarantors" and, together with Parent, the "Guarantors") of Parent identified in Schedule 2 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below) and Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as representatives (together, the "Representatives") of the several initial purchasers (the "Initial Purchasers") named in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement.
     The Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated November 3, 2005 (the "Purchase Agreement"), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $325,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.250% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Securities") which will be guaranteed on an unsecured senior basis by the Guarantors. As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company and the Guarantors have agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
     In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     "Business Day" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
     "Closing Date" shall mean the Closing Date as defined in the Purchase Agreement.
     "Company" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors.
     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
     "Exchange Dates" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
     "Exchange Offer" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company and the Guarantors of Exchange Securities for Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
 
     "Exchange Offer Registration" shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
     "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
     "Exchange Securities" shall mean senior notes to be issued by the Company and to be guaranteed by the Guarantors under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders of Securities in exchange for Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
     "Guarantors" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include a Guarantor's successors.
     "Holders" shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Transfer Restricted Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Transfer Restricted Securities under the Indenture; provided that for purposes of Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, the term "Holders" shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
     "Initial Purchasers" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
     "Indenture" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of November 8, 2005 among the Company the Guarantors and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee.
     "Majority Holders" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities; provided that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Transfer Restricted Securities is required hereunder, Transfer Restricted Securities owned directly or indirectly by the Company or any of its affiliates shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount.
     "Participating Broker-Dealers" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
     "Person" shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
     "Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or
 
supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein.
     "Purchase Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
     "Registration Default" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(d).
     "Registration Expenses" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Transfer Restricted Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vi) the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (vii) the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and the Guarantors and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the fees and disbursements of the independent public accountants of the Company and the Guarantors, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities by a Holder.
     "Registration Statement" shall mean any registration statement of the Company and the Guarantors that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
     "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
 
     "Shelf Effectiveness Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
     "Shelf Filing Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b).
     "Shelf Registration" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
     "Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a "shelf registration statement of the Company and the Guarantors that covers all the Transfer Restricted Securities (but no other securities unless approved by the Holders whose Transfer Restricted Securities are to be covered by such Shelf Registration Statement) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
     "Subsidiary Guarantors" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include a Subsidiary Guarantor's successors in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture.
     "Transfer Restricted Securities" shall mean the Securities; provided that the Securities shall cease to be Transfer Restricted Securities (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has been declared effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) when such Securities are distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or are eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144(k) (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the Securities Act or (iii) when such Securities cease to be outstanding.
     "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time.
     "Trustee" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
     "Underwriter" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3 hereof.
     "Underwritten Offering" shall mean an offering in which Transfer Restricted Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
     2. .
Registration Under the Securities Act
     (a) To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff of the SEC, the Company and the Guarantors shall (i) cause to be filed an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Transfer Restricted Securities for Exchange Securities not later than 120 days after the Closing Date, (ii) use their reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective by the SEC not later than 180 days
 
after the Closing Date and (iii) use their reasonable best efforts to consummate the Exchange Offer not later than 220 days after the Closing Date. The Company and the Guarantors shall commence the Exchange Offer promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and use their reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer not later than 60 days after such effective date.
The Company and the Guarantors shall commence the Exchange Offer by mailing the related Prospectus, appropriate letters of transmittal and other accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law:
     (i) that the Exchange Offer is being made pursuant to this Agreement and that all Transfer Restricted Securities validly tendered and not properly withdrawn will be accepted for exchange;
     (ii) the dates of acceptance for exchange (which shall be a period of at least 20 Business Days from the date such notice is mailed) (the "Exchange Dates");
     (iii) that any Transfer Restricted Securities not tendered, or tendered and subsequently withdrawn, will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest but will not retain any rights under this Agreement or accrue any additional interest under Section 2(d) hereof as a result of such failure to tender any Transfer Restricted Securities;
     (iv) that any Holder electing to have Transfer Restricted Securities exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer will be required to surrender such Transfer Restricted Securities, together with the appropriate letters of transmittal, to the institution and at the address (located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York) and in the manner specified in the notice, prior to the close of business on the last Exchange Date; and
     (v) that any Holder will be entitled to withdraw its election, not later than the close of business on the last Exchange Date, by sending to the institution and at the address (located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York) specified in the notice, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities delivered for exchange and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Securities exchanged.
As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to the Company and the Guarantors that (i) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (ii) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (iii) it is not an "affiliate" (within the meaning of Rule 405 under Securities Act) of the Company or the
 
Guarantors and (iv) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Transfer Restricted Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date, the Company and the Guarantors shall:
     (i) accept for exchange Transfer Restricted Securities or portions thereof validly tendered and not properly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer; and
     (ii) deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee for cancellation all Transfer Restricted Securities or portions thereof so accepted for exchange by the Company and issue, and cause the Trustee to promptly authenticate and deliver to each Holder, Exchange Securities equal in principal amount to the principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities surrendered by such Holder.
The Company and the Guarantors shall use their reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than those set forth in Section 2(a) hereof and that the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff of the SEC.
(b) If (i) because of any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the SEC's staff, the Company is not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2(a) hereof, or (ii) for any other reason the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 220 days after the Closing Date, or (iii) within 30 days after consummation of the Exchange Offer, any Initial Purchaser so requests with respect to Securities not eligible to be exchanged for Exchange Securities in the Exchange Offer and held by it following the consummation of the Exchange Offer, or (vi) any applicable law or interpretations do not permit any Holder to participate in the Exchange Offer, or any Holder that participates in the Exchange Offer does not receive freely transferable Exchange Securities in exchange for tendered Securities, and in either case, requests within 30 days after consummation of the Exchange Offer, the Company and the Guarantors shall use their reasonable best efforts to file as promptly as practicable (but in no event more than 45 days after so required or requested pursuant to this Section 2 or 120 days after the Closing Date, whichever is later) with the SEC (the "Shelf Filing Date"), and thereafter shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective, a Shelf Registration Statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act relating to the offer and sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities by the Holders thereof from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement.
 
     In the event that the Company and the Guarantors are required to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, the Company and the Guarantors shall use their reasonable best efforts to file and have declared effective by the SEC both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) with respect to all Transfer Restricted Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Transfer Restricted Securities held by the Initial Purchasers after completion of the Exchange Offer.
     The Company and the Guarantors agree to use their reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the expiration of the period referred to in Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities or such shorter period that will terminate when all the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement (the "Shelf Effectiveness Period"). The Company and the Guarantors further agree to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder for shelf registration or if reasonably requested by a Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use their reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective and such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable. The Company and the Guarantors agree to furnish to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
     (c) The Company and the Guarantors shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
     (d) An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC.
     In the event that (i) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the SEC on or prior to 120 days after the Closing Date or the Shelf Registration Statement is not filed with the SEC on or before the Shelf Filing Date, (ii) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective within 180 days after the Closing Date, or the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective within 90-days after the Shelf Filing Date, (iii) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to 220 days after the Closing Date, or (iv) the Shelf Registration Statement is filed and declared effective by the date required but shall thereafter cease to be effective (at any time that the Company and the Guarantors are obligated to maintain the effectiveness thereof) or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable and such failure to remain effective
 
or be usable exists for more than 30 days (whether or not successive) within any 12-month period (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (iv), a "Registration Default"), the Company or the Guarantors, as applicable, will be obligated to pay additional cash interest to each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, during the period of one or more such Registration Defaults, in an amount equal to 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities held by such Holder during the first 90 day period following such Registration Default, increasing by an additional 0.25% per annum during each subsequent 90-day period up to a maximum of 0.50% per annum, until (i) the applicable Registration Statement is filed, (ii) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, is declared effective, (iii) the Registered Exchange Offer is consummated, or (iv) the Shelf Registration Statement again becomes effective, as the case may be. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, the accrual of additional interest will cease. The Company shall notify the Trustee immediately upon the happening of each and every Registration Default. The Company or the Guarantors, as applicable, shall pay the additional interest due on the Transfer Restricted Securities by depositing with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders thereof, on the next interest payment date specified by the Indenture and the Securities, sums sufficient to pay the additional interest then due. The additional interest due shall be payable on each interest payment date specified by the Indenture and the Securities to the record holder entitled to receive the interest payment to be made on such date. Each obligation to pay additional interest shall be deemed to accrue from and including the date of the applicable Registration Default.
     (e) Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company and the Guarantors acknowledge that any failure by the Company or the Guarantors to comply with their obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's and the Guarantor's obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof.
     3. . In connection with their obligations pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, the Company and the Guarantors shall as expeditiously as possible:
Registration Procedures
     (a) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (x) shall be selected by the Company and the Guarantors, (y) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities by the selling Holders thereof and (z) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use their reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
     (b) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such
 
Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of and Rule 174 under the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Securities;
     (c) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Transfer Restricted Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such person shall reasonably request, in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Transfer Restricted Securities thereunder; and the Company and the Guarantors consent to the use of such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the selling Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law;
     (d) use their reasonable best efforts to register or qualify, to the extent required, the Transfer Restricted Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such United States jurisdictions as any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC; cooperate with the Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Transfer Restricted Securities owned by such Holder; that neither the Company nor the Guarantors shall be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject;
provided
     (e) in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, counsel for such Holders and counsel for the Initial Purchasers promptly and, if requested by any such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (i) when a Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, including a copy of any such request, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) if, between the effective date of a Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the
 
Company or the Guarantors contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Transfer Restricted Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if the Company or the Guarantors receive any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (v) of the happening of any event during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (vi) of any determination by the Company or the Guarantors that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate;
     (f) use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement at the earliest possible moment and provide prompt notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order;
     (g) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
     (h) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Transfer Restricted Securities to be issued in such denominations and registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as the selling Holders may reasonably request at least one Business Day prior to the closing of any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities;
     (i) in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(e)(v) hereof, use their reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to purchasers of the Transfer Restricted Securities, such Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and the Company and the Guarantors shall notify the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Holders hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus until the Company and the Guarantors have amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission;
     (j) a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration
 
Statement or a Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of the Company and the Guarantors as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and the Company and the Guarantors shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, file any Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus, of which the Initial Purchasers and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Initial Purchasers or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Holders or their counsel) shall reasonably object;
     (k) obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Transfer Restricted Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement;
     (l) to the extent required, cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Transfer Restricted Securities, as the case may be; cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and execute, and use their reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
     (m) in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Holders of the Transfer Restricted Securities (an "Inspector"), any Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, and attorneys and accountants designated by the Holders, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of the Company and the Guarantors, and cause the respective officers, directors and employees of the Company and the Guarantors to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement, in each case, as shall be reasonably necessary to enable such persons to conduct a reasonable investigation within the meaning of Section 11 of the Securities Act; that if any such information is identified by the Company or the Guarantors as being confidential or proprietary, each Person receiving such information shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary (including execution of a confidentiality agreement reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Guarantor) to protect the confidentiality of such information to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of any Inspector, Holder or Underwriter;
provided
 
     (n) if reasonably requested by any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by a Registration Statement, promptly incorporate in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information with respect to such Holder as such Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as the Company has received notification of the matters to be incorporated in such filing; and
     (o) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (i) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Holders and any Underwriters of such Transfer Restricted Securities with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and confirm the same if and when requested, (ii) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and the Guarantors (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Transfer Restricted Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings, (iii) obtain "comfort" letters from the independent certified public accountants of the Company and the Guarantors (and, if necessary, any other certified public accountant of any subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantors, or of any business acquired by the Company or the Guarantors for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each selling Holder and Underwriter of Transfer Restricted Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings and (iv) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors made pursuant to clause (i) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement.
     In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may require each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Transfer Restricted Securities as the Company and the Guarantors may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
     In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company and the Guarantors of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(e)(iii) or 3(e)(v) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities
 
pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3 (i) hereof and, if so directed by the Company and the Guarantors, such Holder will deliver to the Company and the Guarantors all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Transfer Restricted Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice.
     If the Company and the Guarantors shall give any such notice to suspend the disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, the Company and the Guarantors shall extend the period during which the Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions. The Company and the Guarantors may give any such notice only twice during any 365-day period and any such suspensions shall not exceed 30 days for each suspension and there shall not be more than two suspensions in effect during any 365-day period.
     The Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Transfer Restricted Securities in an Underwritten Offering. In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers (the "Underwriters") that will administer the offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of the Transfer Restricted Securities included in such offering.
     4. .
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
     (a) The Staff of the SEC has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a "Participating Broker-Dealer") may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
     The Company and the Guarantors understand that it is the Staff's position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
     (b) In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company and the Guarantors agree to use their reasonable best efforts to
 
keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement remain effective and to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained therein, as would otherwise be contemplated by Section 3(i), for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to the penultimate paragraph of Section 3 of this Agreement), if requested by the Initial Purchasers or by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers, in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above. The Company and the Guarantors further agree that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4.
     (c) The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to the Company, the Guarantors or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) above.
     5. . (a) The Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates, directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any Prospectus or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information furnished to the Company in writing through the Representatives or any selling Holder expressly for use therein. In connection with any Underwritten Offering permitted by Section 3, the Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, will also indemnify the Underwriters, if any, selling brokers, dealers and similar securities industry professionals participating in the distribution, their respective affiliates and each Person who controls such Persons (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement.
Indemnification and Contribution
     (b) Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantors, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, their respective affiliates, the directors of the Company and the Guarantors, each officer of the Company and the Guarantors who signed the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, the Guarantors, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out
 
of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement and any Prospectus.
     (c) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the "Indemnified Person") shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing; provided that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 5 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided, further, that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 5. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by the Representatives, (y) for any Holder, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person
 
shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
     (d) If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company and the Guarantors or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     (e) The Company, the Guarantors and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person
 
guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11 (f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
     (f) The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
     (g) The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder, their respective affiliates or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company or the Guarantors, their respective affiliates or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling the Company or the Guarantors, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
     6. .
General
     (a) The Company and the Guarantors represent, warrant and agree that (i) the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of any other outstanding securities issued or guaranteed by the Company or the Guarantors under any other agreement and (ii) neither the Company nor the Guarantors has entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.
     (b) The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company and the Guarantors have obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; provided that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder. Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments and Waivers.
     (c) All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to the Company and the Guarantors, initially at the Company's address set forth in the
Notices.
 
Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c). All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery. Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
     (d) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Transfer Restricted Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Transfer Restricted Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Transfer Restricted Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof. The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to the Company or the Guarantors with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
     (e) The Company and the Guarantors shall not, and shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause their affiliates (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) not to, purchase and then resell or otherwise transfer any Transfer Restricted Securities.
Purchases and Sales of Securities.
     (f) Each Holder shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
     (g) This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
     (h) The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
 
     (i) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
     (j) To the extent that the Company has or hereafter may acquire any immunity (sovereign or otherwise) from any legal action, suit or proceeding, from jurisdiction of any court or from set-off or any legal process (whether service or notice, attachment in aid or otherwise) with respect to itself or any of its property, the Company hereby irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim such immunity in respect of its obligations under this Agreement.
Waiver of Immunity.
     (k) This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated. The Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions.
Miscellaneous.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
BANK OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
By: CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
For themselves and on behalf of the several Initial Purchasers

 
Exhibit 99.1
November 3, 2005
Banc of America Securities LLC Citigroup Global Markets Inc.    As Representatives of the several Initial Purchasers   listed in Schedule 1 hereto c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Cooper US, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Initial Purchasers listed in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom you are acting as representatives (the "Representatives"), $325,000,000 principal amount of its 5.250% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Securities"). The Securities will be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of November 8, 2005 between the Company, Cooper Industries, Ltd., a company existing under the laws of Bermuda ("Parent"), the subsidiaries of the Company named in Schedule 2 hereto (the "Subsidiary Guarantors" and, together with Parent, the "Guarantors") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Securities will be guaranteed (the "Guarantees") on an unsecured senior basis by the Guarantors.
     The Securities will be sold to the Initial Purchasers without being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), in reliance upon an exemption therefrom. The Company and the Guarantors have prepared a preliminary offering memorandum dated November 3, 2005 (the "Preliminary Offering Memorandum") and will prepare an offering memorandum dated the date hereof (the "Offering Memorandum") setting forth information concerning the Company, the Guarantors and the Securities. Copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum have been, and copies of the Offering Memorandum will be, delivered by the Company and the Guarantors to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. The Company and the Guarantors hereby confirm that they have authorized the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum in connection with the offering and resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by this Agreement. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Offering Memorandum. References herein to the Preliminary Offering
 
Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include any document incorporated by reference therein.
     Holders of the Securities (including the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees) will be entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, to be dated the Closing Date (as defined below) and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company and the Guarantors will agree to file one or more registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") providing for the registration under the Securities Act of the Securities or the Exchange Securities referred to (and as defined) in the Registration Rights Agreement.
     The Company and the Guarantors hereby confirm their agreement with the several Initial Purchasers concerning the purchase and resale of the Securities, as follows:
     1. . (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Initial Purchasers as provided in this Agreement, and each Initial Purchaser, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Initial Purchaser's name in Schedule 1 hereto at a price equal to 98.974% of the principal amount thereof. The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein.
Purchase and Resale of the Securities
     (b) The Company understands that the Initial Purchasers intend to offer the Securities and the Guarantees for resale on the terms set forth in the Offering Memorandum. Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees that:
     (i) it is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act (a "QIB") and an accredited investor within the meaning of Rule 501 (a) under the Securities Act;
     (ii) it has not solicited offers for, or offered or sold, and will not solicit offers for, or offer or sell, the Securities or the Guarantees by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation D under the Securities Act ("Regulation D") or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act; and
     (iii) it has not solicited offers for, or offered or sold, and will not solicit offers for, or offer or sell, the Securities or the Guarantees as part of their initial offering except:
          (A) within the United States to persons whom it reasonably believes to be QIBs in transactions pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act ("Rule 144A") and in connection with each such sale, it has taken or will take reasonable steps to ensure that the purchaser of the Securities is aware that such sale is being made in reliance on Rule 144A; or
          (B) in accordance with the restrictions set forth in Annex A hereto.
 
     (c) Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that the Company and the Guarantors and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to Sections 5(f) and 5(g), counsel for the Company and the Guarantors and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, respectively, may rely upon the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers, and compliance by the Initial Purchasers with their agreements, contained in paragraph (b) above (including Annex A hereto), and each Initial Purchaser hereby consents to such reliance.
     (d) The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Initial Purchasers may offer and sell Securities and the Guarantees to or through any affiliate of an Initial Purchaser and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Securities and the Guarantees purchased by it to or through any Initial Purchaser, provided that any such offers or sales shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
     2. . (a) Payment for and delivery of the Securities will be made at the offices of Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw LLP in Chicago, Illinois at 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on November 8, 2005, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing. The time and date of such payment and delivery is referred to herein as the "Closing Date".
Payment and Delivery
     (b) Payment for the Securities shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account(s) specified by the Company to the Representatives against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, for the account of the Initial Purchasers, of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the "Global Note"), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of the Securities duly paid by the Company. The Global Note will be made available for inspection by the Representatives not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date.
     3. . The Company and the Guarantors jointly and severally represent and warrant to each Initial Purchaser that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company and the Guarantors
     (a) The Preliminary Offering Memorandum, as of its date, did not, and the Offering Memorandum, in the form first used by the Initial Purchasers to confirm sales of the Securities did not, and as of the Closing Date, will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company and the Guarantors make no representation or warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company and the Guarantors in writing by any Initial Purchaser through the Representatives expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum.
Offering Memorandum.
provided
     (b) The documents incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, when filed with the Commission, conformed or will conform, as the case may be, as of their respective dates of filing, in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and did not and will not as of their respective dates of filing contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
Incorporated Documents.
 
a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     (c) The financial statements and the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as applicable, and present fairly the financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their cash flows for the periods specified; such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered thereby; and the other financial information included or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum has been derived from the accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries and presents fairly the information shown thereby.
Financial Statements.
     (d) Since the date of the most recent financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, (i) there has not been any material change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries (other than the maturity and repayment of $152,000,000 of current maturities of long-term debt) or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the business, properties, management, financial position or results of operations of Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; (ii) none of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement that is material to Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is material to Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and (iii) none of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries has sustained any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor disturbance or dispute or any action, order or decree of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except in each case as otherwise disclosed in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum.
No Material Adverse Change.
     (e) The Company, the Guarantors and each of their respective subsidiaries have been duly incorporated and are validly existing and in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, are duly qualified to do business and are in good standing in each jurisdiction in which their respective ownership or lease of property or the conduct of their respective businesses requires such qualification, and have all power and authority necessary to own or hold their respective properties and to conduct the businesses in which they are engaged, except where the failure to be so qualified or have such power or authority would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, management, financial position or results of operations of Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or on the performance by the Company and the Guarantors of their obligations under the Securities and the Guarantees (a "Material Adverse Effect").
Organization and Good Standing.
     (f) Parent has an authorized capitalization of 250 million shares of Class A common stock, 150 million shares of Class B common stock and 10 million shares of preferred stock; and all the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of the
Capitalization.
 
Company and each subsidiary of Parent have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and all shares that are owned directly or indirectly by Parent are owned free and clear of any lien, charge, encumbrance, security interest, restriction on voting or transfer or any other claim of any third party.
     (g) The Company and the Guarantors have the corporate right, power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, the Securities, the Indenture (including the Guarantees set forth therein), the Exchange Securities and the Registration Rights Agreement (collectively, the "Transaction Documents") and to perform their respective obligations hereunder and thereunder.
Due Authorization.
     (h) The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and the Guarantors and, when duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each of the parties thereto, will constitute a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company and the Guarantors enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability (collectively, the "Enforceability Exceptions"); and on the Closing Date, the Indenture will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act"), and the rules and regulations of the Commission applicable to an indenture that is qualified thereunder.
The Indenture.
     (i) The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture; and the Guarantees have been duly authorized by each of the Guarantors and, when the Securities have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, the Guarantees will be valid and legally binding obligation of each of the Guarantors, enforceable against each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
The Securities and the Guarantees.
     (j) On the Closing Date, the Exchange Securities, together with the related guarantees, will have been duly authorized by the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, and, when the Exchange Securities have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement, the Exchange Securities and the related guarantees will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute the respective valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, as issuer, and the Guarantors, as guarantors, enforceable against the Company and each of the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
The Exchange Securities.
     (k) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantors. The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by the Company and the Guarantors and, when duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each of the parties thereto, will constitute a
Purchase and Registration Rights Agreements.
 
valid and legally binding agreement of the Company and the Guarantors enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and except that rights to indemnity and contribution thereunder may be limited by applicable law and public policy
     (1) Each Transaction Document conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Offering Memorandum.
Descriptions of the Transaction Documents.
     (m) None of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is (i) in violation of its charter, by-laws or similar organizational documents; (ii) in default, and no event has occurred that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default, in the due performance or observance of any term, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is subject; or (iii) in violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, for any such default or violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Violation or Default.
     (n) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the Guarantors of each of the Transaction Documents to which each is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities (including the Guarantees) and compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents will not (i) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is subject, (ii) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter, by-laws or similar organizational documents of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries or (iii) result in the violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except, in the case of clause (i) above, for any such conflict, breach or violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Conflicts.
     (o) No consent, approval, authorization, filing, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the Guarantors of each of the Transaction Documents to which each is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities (including the Guarantees) and compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, filings, orders and registrations or qualifications as may be required (i) under applicable state securities laws in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers and (ii) with respect to the
No Consents Required.
 
Exchange Securities (including the related guarantee) under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement.
     (p) Except as described in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum, there are no legal, governmental or regulatory investigations, actions, suits or proceedings pending to which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is or may be a party or to which any property of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is or may be the subject that, individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely to the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and to the best knowledge of the Company and the Guarantors, no such investigations, actions, suits or proceedings are threatened or, to the best knowledge of the Company and the Guarantors, contemplated by any governmental or regulatory authority or threatened by others.
Legal Proceedings.
     (q) Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company, Parent and Parent's subsidiaries own or possess adequate rights to use all material patents, patent applications, trademarks, service marks, trade names, trademark registrations, service mark registrations, copyrights, licenses and know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures) necessary for the conduct of their respective businesses as now operated by them; and neither the Company, Parent nor Parent's subsidiaries has received any notice of any claim of infringement of or conflict with any such rights of others that if determined adversely to the Company, Parent or Parent's subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Intellectual Property.
     (r) No labor disturbance by or dispute with employees of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries exists or, to the best knowledge of the Company and the Guarantors, is contemplated or threatened, that would have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Labor Disputes.
     (s) The Company, Parent and Parent's subsidiaries (i) are in compliance with any and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, decisions and orders relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), (ii) have received and are in compliance with all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses; and (iii) have not received notice of any actual or potential liability for the investigation or remediation of any disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, except in any such case for any such failure to comply with, or failure to receive required permits, licenses or approvals or liability, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance With Environmental Laws.
     (t) Ernst & Young, LLP, who has certified the consolidated financial statements of Parent and its subsidiaries, is an independent registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Rule 101 of the Code of Professional Conduct of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and its interpretations and rulings thereunder.
Independent Accountants.
 
     (u) Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors is, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Offering Memorandum none of them will be, an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, "Investment Company Act").
Investment Company Act.
     (v) Parent maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) designed by, or under the supervision of, Parent's principal executive officer and principal financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management of the Parent most recently assessed the effectiveness of the Parent's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Based upon that assessment, management of the Parent concluded that, as of December 31, 2004, Parent's internal control over financial reporting was effective based upon those criteria. Management of the Parent is not aware of any reason why Parent's internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2005 and is not effective as of the date hereof, and management of Parent was not aware as of June 30, 2005 and is not aware as of the date hereof of any material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
     (w)Parent maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) that have been designed to ensure that material information relating to Parent and its consolidated subsidiaries is made known to Parent's principal executive officer and principal financial officer by others within those entities. Management of the Parent most recently performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Parent's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Based upon that evaluation, management of the Parent concluded that the Parent's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of such date. Management of the Parent is not aware of any reason why Parent's disclosure controls and procedures are not effective as of the date hereof.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
     (x) None of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is a party to any contract, agreement or understanding with any person (other than this Agreement) that would give rise to a valid claim against any of them or any Initial Purchaser for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or like payment in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities.
No Broker's Fees.
     (y) On the Closing Date, the Securities will not be of the same class as securities listed on a national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act or quoted in an automated inter-dealer quotation system; and each of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, as of its respective date, contains or will contain all the information that, if requested by a prospective purchaser of the Securities, would be required to be provided to such prospective purchaser pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A Eligibility.
 
     (z) None of the Company, the Guarantors or any of their respective affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D) has, directly or through any agent, sold, offered for sale, solicited offers to buy or otherwise negotiated in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act), that is or will be integrated with the sale of the Securities or the Guarantees in a manner that would require registration of the Securities or the Guarantees under the Securities Act.
No Integration.
     (aa) None of the Company, the Guarantors or any of their respective affiliates or any other person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to which no representation is made) has (i) solicited offers for, or offered or sold, the Securities or the Guarantees by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation D or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act or (ii) engaged in any directed selling efforts within the meaning of Regulation S under the Securities Act ("Regulation S"), offered or sold the Securities or the Guarantees being offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S other than in offshore transactions, and all such persons have complied with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S.
No General Solicitation or Directed Selling Efforts.
     (bb) Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers contained in Section 1(b) (including Annex A hereto) and their compliance with their agreements set forth therein, it is not necessary, in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities or the Guarantees to the Initial Purchasers and the offer, resale and delivery of the Securities or the Guarantees by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Offering Memorandum, to register the Securities or the Guarantees under the Securities Act or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
Securities Law Exemptions.
     (cc) Neither the Company nor the Guarantors has taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities or the Guarantees.
No Stabilization.
     (dd) No forward-looking statement (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) contained or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum has been made or reaffirmed without a reasonable basis or has been disclosed other than in good faith.
Forward-Looking Statements.
     4. . The Company and the Guarantors jointly and severally covenant and agree with each Initial Purchaser that:
Further Agreements of the Company and the Guarantors
     (a) The Company and the Guarantors will deliver to the Initial Purchasers as many copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum (including all amendments and supplements thereto) as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Delivery of Copies.
     (b) Before making or distributing any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum, the Company and the Guarantors will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Initial
Amendments or Supplements.
 
Purchasers a copy of the proposed amendment or supplement for review, and will not distribute any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably object.
     (c) The Company and the Guarantors will advise the Representatives promptly, and confirm such advice in writing, (i) of the issuance by any governmental or regulatory authority of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose; (ii) of the occurrence of any event at any time prior to the completion of the initial offering of the Securities as a result of which the Offering Memorandum as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading; and (iii) of the receipt by the Company or the Guarantors of any notice with respect to any suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offer and sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and the Company and the Guarantors will use their reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or suspending any such qualification of the Securities and, if any such order is issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Notice to the Representatives.
     (d) If at any time prior to the completion of the initial offering of the Securities (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Offering Memorandum as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Offering Memorandum to comply with law, the Company and the Guarantors will immediately notify the Initial Purchasers thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (b) above, file with the Commission any document to be incorporated by reference therein and furnish to the Initial Purchasers such amendments or supplements to the Offering Memorandum as may be necessary so that the statements in the Offering Memorandum as so amended or supplemented (or including such document to be incorporated by reference therein) will not, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Offering Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Offering Memorandum will comply with law.
Ongoing Compliance of the Offering Memorandum.
     (e) The Company and the Guarantors will cooperate with the Initial Purchasers to qualify the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the offering and resale of the Securities; that neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors shall be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Compliance.
provided
     (f) During the period from the date hereof through and including the Closing Date, the Company and the Guarantors will not, without the prior written consent of the
Clear Market.
 
Representatives, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company or any of the Guarantors and having a term of more than one year.
     (g) The Company will apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Offering Memorandum under the heading "Use of Proceeds".
Use of Proceeds.
     (h) While the Securities remain outstanding and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, the Company and the Guarantors will, during any period in which Parent is not subject to and in compliance with Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Exchange Act, furnish to holders of the Securities and prospective purchasers of the Securities designated by such holders, upon the request of such holders or such prospective purchasers, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
Supplying Information.
     (i) The Company and the Guarantors will assist the Initial Purchasers in arranging for the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company ("DTC").
DTC.
     (j) The Company and the Guarantors will not, and will not permit any of their affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) to, resell any of the Securities that have been acquired by any of them, except for Securities purchased by the Company, the Guarantors or any of their affiliates and resold in a transaction registered under the Securities Act.
No Resales by the Company and the Guarantors.
     (k) None of the Company, the Guarantors or any of their respective affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D) will, directly or through any agent, sell, offer for sale, solicit offers to buy or otherwise negotiate in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act), that is or will be integrated with the sale of the Securities or the Guarantees in a manner that would require registration of the Securities or the Guarantees under the Securities Act.
No Integration.
     (1) None of the Company, the Guarantors or any of their respective affiliates or any other person acting on their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to which no covenant is given) will (i) solicit offers for, or offer or sell, the Securities or the Guarantees by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation D or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act or (ii) engage in any directed selling efforts within the meaning of Regulation S, offer or sell the Securities or the Guarantees being offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S other than in offshore transactions, and all such persons will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S.
No General Solicitation or Directed Selling Efforts.
     (m)Neither the Company nor the Guarantors will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities or the Guarantees.
No Stabilization.
 
     (n) The Guarantors and the Company will file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by them with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Filing of Exchange Act Documents.
     (o) The Parent will use its reasonable best efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the applicable laws, rules and regulations promulgated in implementation of such Act, and will use its reasonable best efforts to cause its directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such Act and such applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance.
     5.  The obligation of each Initial Purchaser to purchase Securities on the Closing Date as provided herein is subject to the performance by the Company and the Guarantors of their respective covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions of Initial Purchasers' Obligations.
     (a) The representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained herein shall be true and correct on the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date; and the statements of the Company, the Guarantors and their respective officers made in any certificates delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date.
Representations and Warranties.
     (b) Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Securities or any other debt securities or preferred stock issued or guaranteed by the Company or any of the Guarantors by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as such term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act; and (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of the Securities or of any other debt securities or preferred stock issued or guaranteed by the Company or any of the Guarantors (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading).
No Downgrade.
     (c) Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, no event or condition of a type described in Section 3(d) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not described in the Offering Memorandum (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto or any document filed with the Commission after the date hereof and incorporated by reference therein) and the effect of which in the judgment of the Representatives makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Offering Memorandum.
No Material Adverse Change.
     (d) The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date a certificate of an executive officer of the Company and of each of the Guarantors who has specific knowledge of the Company's or such Guarantor's financial matters and is satisfactory to the Representatives (i) confirming that such officer has carefully reviewed the Offering Memorandum and, to the best knowledge of such officer, the representation set forth in Section 3(a) hereof is true and correct, (ii) confirming that the other representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors in this Agreement are true and correct and that
Officer's Certificate.
 
the Company and the Guarantors have complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date and (iii) to the effect set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) above.
     (e) On the date hereof and on the Closing Date, Ernst & Young LLP shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company and the Guarantors, letters, dated the date hereof and the Closing Date and addressed to the Initial Purchasers, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum; provided that such letters shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the date of such letters.
Comfort Letters.
     (f) (i) Squire, Sanders & Dempsey, L.L.P., counsel for the Company and the Guarantors, (ii) Appleby, Spurling & Hunter, Bermuda counsel for Parent and (iii) Diane Schumacher, General Counsel to the Company and the Guarantors, shall have each furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company and the Guarantors, their written opinion, each dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Initial Purchasers, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Annexes B, C and D, respectively, hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company and the Guarantor.
     (g) The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date an opinion of Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such documents and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Initial Purchasers.
     (h) No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities or the issuance of the Guarantees; and no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities or the issuance of the Guarantees.
No Legal Impediment to Issuance.
     (i) The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date satisfactory evidence of the good standing of the Company, and the Guarantors in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as the Representatives may reasonably request, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication, from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions.
Good Standing.
     (j) The Initial Purchasers shall have received a counterpart of the Registration Rights Agreement that shall have been executed and delivered by duly authorized officers of the Company and the Guarantors.
Registration Rights Agreement.
     (k) The Securities shall be eligible for clearance and settlement through DTC.
DTC.
 
     (1) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Company and the Guarantors shall have furnished to the Representatives such further certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Additional Documents.
     All opinions, letters, certificates and evidence mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers.
     6. .
Indemnification and Contribution
     (a) The Company and the Guarantors jointly and severally agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls such Initial Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information furnished to the Company and the Guarantors in writing by any Initial Purchaser through the Representatives expressly for use therein; , that with respect to any such untrue or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the indemnity agreement contained in this paragraph (a) shall not inure to the benefit of any Initial Purchaser to the extent that the sale to the person asserting any such loss, claim, damage or liability was an initial resale by such Initial Purchaser and any such loss, claim, damage or liability of or with respect to such Initial Purchaser results from the fact that both (i) a copy of the Offering Memorandum (excluding any documents incorporated by reference therein) was not sent or given to such person at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of such Securities to such person and (ii) the untrue or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from such Preliminary Offering Memorandum was corrected in the Offering Memorandum unless, in either case, such failure to deliver the Offering Memorandum was a result of non-compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with the provisions of Section 4 hereof.
Indemnification of the Initial Purchasers.
provided
     (b) Each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantors, their respective directors and officers, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any of the Guarantors within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information furnished to the Company and the Guarantors in writing by any Initial Purchaser through the Representatives expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto), it
Indemnification of the Company and the Guarantors.
 
being understood and agreed that the only such information consists of the following information in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum: (i) the first sentence of the third paragraph, (ii) the third and fourth sentences of the eighth paragraph, and (iii) the first two sentences of the ninth paragraph under the heading "Plan of Distribution."
     (c) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such person (the "Indemnified Person") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 6 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 6. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 6 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for any Initial Purchaser, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and any such separate firm for the Company, the Guarantors and any control persons of the Company and the Guarantors shall be designated in writing by the Company and the Guarantors. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such
Notice and Procedures.
provided
provided
further
 
request prior to the date of such settlement. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
     (d) If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Company from the sale of the Securities and the total discounts and commissions received by the Initial Purchasers in connection therewith, as provided in this Agreement, bear to the aggregate offering price of the Securities. The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Guarantors or by the Initial Purchasers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution.
     (e) The Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6 were determined by allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 6, in no event shall an Initial Purchaser be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discounts and commissions received by such Initial Purchaser with respect to the offering of the Securities exceeds the amount of any damages that such Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the
Limitation on Liability.
pro
rata
 
Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Initial Purchasers' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 6 are several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint.
     (f) The remedies provided for in this Section 6 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
Non-Exclusive Remedies.
     7. . This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice to the Company and the Guarantors, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange or the over-the-counter market; (ii) trading of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Company or any of the Guarantors shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) there shall have occurred a material disruption of securities settlement or clearance services; (iv) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Offering Memorandum.
Termination
     8. . (a) If, on the Closing Date, any Initial Purchaser defaults on its obligation to purchase the Securities that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Securities by other persons satisfactory to the Company and the Guarantors on the terms contained in this Agreement. If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Initial Purchaser, the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers do not arrange for the purchase of such Securities, then the Company and the Guarantors shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers to purchase such Securities on such terms. If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Securities of a defaulting Initial Purchaser, either the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers or the Company and the Guarantors may postpone the Closing Date for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company and the Guarantors or counsel for the Initial Purchasers may be necessary in the Offering Memorandum or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company and the Guarantors agree to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Offering Memorandum that effects any such changes. As used in this Agreement, the term "Initial Purchaser" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in Schedule 1 hereto that, pursuant to this Section 8, purchases Securities that a defaulting Initial Purchaser agreed but failed to purchase.
Defaulting Initial Purchaser
     (b) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers by the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers and the Company and the Guarantors as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, then the Company and the Guarantors shall have the right
 
to require each non-defaulting Initial Purchaser to purchase the principal amount of Securities that such Initial Purchaser agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Initial Purchaser's share (based on the principal amount of Securities that such Initial Purchaser agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Securities of such defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers for which such arrangements have not been made.
pro rata
     (c) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers by the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers and the Company and the Guarantors as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased exceeds one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, or if the Company and the Guarantors shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers. Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 8 shall be without liability on the part of the Company or the Guarantors, except that the Company and the Guarantors will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 9 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 6 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect.
     (d) Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Initial Purchaser of any liability it may have to the Company, the Guarantors or any non-defaulting Initial Purchaser for damages caused by its default.
     9. . (a) Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company and the Guarantors jointly and severally agree to pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of their respective obligations hereunder, including without limitation, (i) the costs incident to the authorization, issuance, sale, preparation and delivery of the Securities and any taxes payable in that connection; (ii) the costs incident to the preparation and printing of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum (including any amendment or supplement thereto) and the distribution thereof; (iii) the costs of reproducing and distributing each of the Transaction Documents; (iv) the fees and expenses of the Company's and the Guarantors' counsel and independent accountants; (v) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the registration or qualification and determination of eligibility for investment of the Securities under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and the preparation, printing and distribution of a Blue Sky Memorandum (including the related reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Initial Purchasers); (vi) any fees charged by rating agencies for rating the Securities; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent (including related reasonable fees and expenses of any counsel to such parties); (viii) all expenses and application fees incurred in connection with the approval of the Securities for book-entry transfer by DTC; and (ix) all expenses incurred by the Company and the Guarantors in connection with any "road show" presentation to potential investors.
Payment of Expenses
     (b) If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 7, (ii) the Company for any reason fails to tender the Securities for delivery to the Initial Purchasers or (iii) the Initial Purchasers decline to purchase the Securities for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company and the Guarantors jointly and severally agree to reimburse the Initial Purchasers for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel)
 
reasonably incurred by the Initial Purchasers in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
     10. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates, officers and directors of each Initial Purchaser and the directors and officers of the Company and the Guarantors referred to in Section 6 hereof. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein. No purchaser of Securities from any Initial Purchaser shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase.
Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement
     11. . The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company, the Guarantors or the Initial Purchasers pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Securities and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company, the Guarantors or the Initial Purchasers.
Survival
     12. . For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; (c) the term "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; (d) the term "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; and (e) the term "significant subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act.
Certain Defined Terms
     13. .
Miscellaneous
     (a) Any action by the Initial Purchasers hereunder may be taken by the Representatives on behalf of the Initial Purchasers, and any such action taken by the Representatives shall be binding upon the Initial Purchasers.
Authority of the Representatives.
     (b) Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Initial Purchasers shall be given to the Representatives c/o Banc of America Securities LLC, 40 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019, (fax: 212-901-7881); Attention: High Grade Debt Capital Markets Transaction Management and to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10038, (fax: ); Attention: . Notices to the Company and the Guarantors shall be given to them at Cooper Industries, Ltd., 600 Travis, Suite 5800, Houston, Texas 77002 (fax: (713) 209-8983); Attention: Vice President and Treasurer.
 - 
 - 
     (c) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
 
     (d) To the extent that the Company and the Guarantors have or hereafter may acquire any immunity (sovereign or otherwise) from any legal action, suit or proceeding, from jurisdiction of any court or from set-off or any legal process (whether service or notice, attachment in aid or otherwise) with respect to themselves or any of their properties, the Company and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably waive and agree not to plead or claim such immunity in respect of their obligations under this Agreement.
Waiver of Immunity.
     (e) This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
     (f) No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers.
     (g) The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement.
Headings.
     14. Each of the Company and the Guarantors acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the several Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and the Company and the Guarantors are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Initial Purchaser is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company, the Guarantors or their respective affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other affiliated party of the Company or the Guarantors; (iii) no Initial Purchaser has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company or the Guarantors with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Initial Purchaser has advised or is currently advising the Company or the Guarantors on other matters) and no Initial Purchaser has any obligation to the Company or the Guarantors with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Initial Purchasers and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the Guarantors and that the several Initial Purchasers have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Initial Purchasers have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company and the Guarantors have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent they deemed appropriate.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility.
     This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company, the Guarantors and the several Initial Purchasers, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company and the Guarantors hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company and the Guarantors may have against the several Initial Purchasers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty with respect to the offering contemplated hereby.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing in the space provided below.
 
Accepted: November 3, 2005
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
For themselves and on behalf of the several Initial Purchasers listed in Schedule 1 hereto.
By: CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
 
 
Schedule 2
Cooper B-Line, Inc. Cooper Bussmann, Inc. Cooper Crouse-Hinds, LLC Cooper Lighting, Inc. Cooper Power Systems, Inc. Cooper Wiring Devices, Inc.
 
ANNEX A
     In connection with offers and sales of Securities or the Guarantees outside the United States:
     (a) Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges that neither the Securities nor the Guarantees have been registered under the Securities Act or may be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from, or in transactions not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
     (b) Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees that:
     (i) Such Initial Purchaser has offered and sold the Securities and the Guarantees, and will offer and sell the Securities and the Guarantees, (A) as part of their distribution at any time and (B) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering of the Securities and the Guarantees and the Closing Date, only in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act ("Regulation S") or Rule 144A or any other available exemption from registration under the Securities Act.
     (ii) None of such Initial Purchaser or any of its affiliates or any other person acting on its or their behalf has engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts with respect to the Securities or the Guarantees, and all such persons have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S.
     (iii) At or prior to the confirmation of sale of any Securities or the Guarantees sold in reliance on Regulation S, such Initial Purchaser will have sent to each distributor, dealer or other person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration that purchases Securities or the Guarantees from it during the distribution compliance period a confirmation or notice to substantially the following effect:
"The Securities covered hereby have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering of the Securities and the date of original issuance of the Securities, except in accordance with Regulation S or Rule 144A or any other available exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meanings given to them by Regulation S."
     (iv) Such Initial Purchaser has not and will not enter into any contractual arrangement with any distributor with respect to the distribution of the Securities or the
 
Guarantees, except with its affiliates or with the prior written consent of the Company and the Guarantors.
Terms used in paragraph (a) and this paragraph (b) and not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them by Regulation S.
     (c) Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees that:
     (i) it has not offered or sold and prior to the date six months after the Closing Date will not offer or sell any Securities or the Guarantees to persons in the United Kingdom except to persons whose ordinary activities involve them in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments (as principal or agent) for the purposes of their businesses or otherwise in circumstances which have not resulted and will not result in an offer to the public in the United Kingdom within the meaning of the United Kingdom Public Offers of Securities Regulations 1995 (as amended);
     (ii) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the United Kingdom Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "FSMA")) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of any Securities of the Guarantees in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Company or the Guarantor; and
     (iii) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities or the Guarantees in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
     (d) Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges that no action has been or will be taken by the Company and the Guarantors that would permit a public offering of the Securities or the Guarantees, or possession or distribution of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Offering Memorandum or any other offering or publicity material relating to the Securities or the Guarantees, in any country or jurisdiction where action for that purpose is required.
 
ANNEX B
     Squire, Sanders & Dempsey, L.L.P. shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers their written opinion, as counsel to the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, addressed to the Initial Purchasers and dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, substantially to the effect set forth below:
     (a) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
     (b) The Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors have the corporate right, power and authority to execute and deliver each of the Transaction Documents to which they are a party and to perform their respective obligations under each such Transaction Document.
     (c) The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors and constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company and the Guarantors enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, and the Indenture conforms in all material respects with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission applicable to an indenture that is qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
     (d) The Securities have been duly authorized and executed by the Company for issuance and sale to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement and, when duly authenticated as provided in the Indenture and delivered and paid for as provided in the Purchase Agreement, the Securities will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
     (e) The Guarantees of the Securities by the Subsidiary Guarantors have been duly authorized by each of the Subsidiary Guarantors and, when the Securities have been duly executed, authenticated and issued as provided in the Indenture and delivered and paid for as provided in the Purchase Agreement, the Guarantees will be valid and legally binding obligations of the Guarantors, enforceable against the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
     (f) The Exchange Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement and pursuant to the Indenture, the Exchange Securities will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
     (g) The Guarantees of the Exchange Securities by the Subsidiary Guarantors have been duly authorized by each of the Subsidiary Guarantors and, when the Exchange Securities have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as contemplated by the Registration
 
Rights Agreement and pursuant to the Indenture, the Guarantees of the Exchange Securities will be valid and legally binding obligations of the Guarantors, enforceable against the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
     (h) The Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors.
     (i) The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors and constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company and the Guarantors enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except that rights to indemnity and contribution under the Registration Rights Agreement may be limited by applicable law and public policy.
     (j) Each Transaction Document conforms in all material respects to the applicable description contained in the Offering Memorandum.
     (k) No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the Guarantors of each of the Transaction Documents to which each is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities and the Guarantees and compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with the terms of such Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders and registrations or qualifications as may be required (i) under applicable state securities laws in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities and the related Guarantees by the Initial Purchasers and (ii) with respect to the Exchange Securities and the related Guarantees under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement.
     (1) The descriptions in the Offering Memorandum of statutes, legal, governmental and regulatory proceedings and contracts and other documents are accurate in all material respects, and the statements in the Offering Memorandum under the heading "Certain Tax Consequences," to the extent that they constitute summaries of matters of law or regulation or legal conclusions, fairly summarize the matters described in all material respects.
     (m) Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors is, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the related Guarantees and the application of the related proceeds as described in the Offering Memorandum none of them will be, an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
     (n) Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties and compliance with the agreements of the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers contained in the Purchase Agreement, it is not necessary, in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities and the Guarantees to the Initial Purchasers and the offer, resale and delivery of the Securities and the Guarantees by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated by the Purchase Agreement and the Offering Memorandum, to register the Securities or the Guarantees under the Securities Act or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
 
     Such counsel shall also state that they have participated in conferences with representatives of the Company and the Guarantors and with representatives of their independent accountants and counsel at which conferences the contents of the Offering Memorandum and related matters were discussed and, although such counsel assume no responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the Offering Memorandum (except as expressly provided above), nothing has come to the attention of such counsel to cause such counsel to believe that the Offering Memorandum as of its date or the Closing Date, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (other than the financial statements and other financial information contained or incorporated by reference therein, as to which such counsel need express no belief).
     In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and the Guarantors and public officials that are furnished to the Initial Purchasers and may make necessary assumptions as to matters relating to Bermuda law.
     The opinion of Squire, Sanders & Dempsey, L.L.P. described above shall be rendered to the Initial Purchasers at the request of the Company and the Guarantors and shall so state therein.
 
ANNEX C
     Appleby, Spurling & Hunter shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers their written opinion, as counsel to Parent, addressed to the Initial Purchasers and dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, substantially to the effect set forth below:
     Parent has been duly organized and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Bermuda, and has the corporate power and authority necessary to own or hold its properties and to conduct the business in which it is engaged as described in the Offering Memorandum, except where the failure to have such power or authority would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (a) Parent has the corporate right, power and authority to execute and deliver each of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and to perform its obligations thereunder; and all action required to be taken for the due and proper authorization, execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby by Parent has been duly and validly taken.
     (b) The execution, delivery and performance by Parent of each of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party do not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a default under (i) any requirement of any law or any regulation of Bermuda or (ii) the constitutional documents of Parent, and will not create any charge or lien over the assets of Parent.
     (c) Except as otherwise provided in such opinion, no consent, license or authorization of, filing with, or other act by or in respect of, any governmental authority or court of Bermuda is required to be obtained by Parent in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by Parent of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party, or to ensure the legality, validity, admissibility into evidence or enforceability as to Parent of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party.
     (d) Parent has been designated as non-resident of Bermuda for the purposes of the Exchange Control Act, 1972 and, as such, are free to acquire, hold, transfer and sell foreign currency and securities without restriction;
     (e) The statements contained in the Offering Memorandum under the captions "Enforceability of Judgments and Service of Process" and "Certain Tax Consequences - Bermuda Taxation" to the extent they constitute statements of Bermuda law, are accurate in all material respects;
     (f) The consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including but not limited to any actions taken pursuant to the indemnification and
 
contribution provisions contained in this Agreement) will not, subject to compliance with Section 39A(2A) of the Companies Act 1981, constitute unlawful financial assistance by Parent under Bermuda law;
     (g) It is not necessary or desirable to ensure the enforceability in Bermuda of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Guarantees that they be registered in any register kept by, or filed with, any governmental authority or regulatory body in Bermuda. However, to the extent that this Agreement, the Indenture or the Guarantees create a charge over assets of Parent, it may be desirable to ensure the priority in Bermuda of the charge that it be registered in the Register of Charges in accordance with Section 55 of the Companies Act 1981. On registration, to the extent that Bermuda law governs the priority of a charge, such charge will have priority in Bermuda over any unregistered charges created, and over any subsequently registered charges, in respect of the assets which are the subject of the charge.
     (h) This Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities will not be subject to ad valorem stamp duty in Bermuda.
     (i) Based solely upon a search of the Cause Book of the Supreme Court of Bermuda conducted at a specified time and date (which would not reveal details of proceedings which have been filed but not actually entered in the Cause Book at the time of our search), there are no judgments against Parent, or any legal or governmental proceedings pending in Bermuda to which Parent is subject.
     (j) The choice of New York Laws as the governing law of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Guarantees is a valid choice of law and would be recognized and given effect to in any action brought before a court of competent jurisdiction in Bermuda, except for those laws (i) which such court considers to be procedural in nature, (ii) which are revenue or penal laws or (iii) the application of which would be inconsistent with public policy, as such term is interpreted under the laws of Bermuda.
     (k) The courts of Bermuda would recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment obtained in the New York Courts against Parent based upon this Agreement, the Indenture or the Guarantees under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (a) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment, (b) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of Bermuda, (c) such judgment was not obtained by fraud, (d) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of Bermuda, (e) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of Bermuda and (f) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of Bermuda.
in personam
 
     In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and the Guarantors and public officials that are furnished to the Initial Purchasers.
     The opinion of Appleby, Spurling & Hunter described above shall be rendered to the Initial Purchasers at the request of the Company and the Guarantors and shall so state therein.
 
ANNEX D
     General Counsel of the Company shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers her written opinion, as counsel to the Company, addressed to the Initial Purchasers and dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, substantially to the effect set forth below:
     (a) The Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors have been duly organized and are validly existing and in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, the Company, Parent and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors are duly qualified to do business and are in good standing in each jurisdiction in which their respective ownership or lease of property or the conduct of their respective businesses requires such qualification, and have the corporate power and authority necessary to own or hold their respective properties and to conduct the businesses in which they are engaged as described in the Offering Memorandum, except where the failure to be so qualified or have such power or authority would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (b) Parent has an authorized capitalization of 250 million Class A Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, 150 million Class B Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, and 10,000 Preferred Shares, par value $0.01 per share ; and all the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor have been duly authorized and validly issued, and are fully paid and non-assessable.
     (c) The Company has the corporate right, power and authority to execute and deliver each of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and to perform its obligations thereunder.
     (d) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the Guarantors of each of the Transaction Documents to which each is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities and the Guarantees and compliance by the Company and the Guarantors with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents will not (i) to the best knowledge of such counsel, conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is subject, (ii) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter, by-laws or similar organizational documents of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries or (iii) result in the violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority applicable to the Company or Parent, except, in the case of clause (i) above,
 
for any such conflict, breach or violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (e) To the best knowledge of such counsel, except as described in the Offering Memorandum, there are no legal, governmental or regulatory investigations, actions, suits or proceedings pending to which the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is or may be a party or to which any property of the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries is or may be the subject that, individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely to the Company, Parent or any of Parent's subsidiaries, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and, to the best knowledge of such counsel, no such investigations, actions, suits or proceedings are threatened or contemplated by any governmental or regulatory authority or threatened by others.
     (f) The descriptions in the Offering Memorandum of statutes, legal, governmental and regulatory proceedings and contracts and other documents are accurate in all material respects.
     Such counsel shall also state that she has participated in conferences with representatives of the Company and the Guarantors and with representatives of their independent accountants and counsel at which conferences the contents of the Offering Memorandum [and any amendment and supplement thereto, if applicable] and related matters were discussed and, although such counsel assume no responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the Offering Memorandum [or any amendment or supplement thereto, if applicable] (except as expressly provided above), nothing has come to the attention of such counsel to cause such counsel to believe that the Offering Memorandum [or any amendment or supplement thereto, if applicable], as of its date or the Closing Date, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (other than the financial statements and other financial information contained or incorporated by reference therein, as to which such counsel need express no belief).
     In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and the Guarantors and public officials that are furnished to the Initial Purchasers.
 
Exhibit A

 
Exhibit 99.2
November 8, 2005
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
HOUSTON, TX, November 8  Cooper Industries, Ltd. (NYSE: CBE) today announced that its Cooper US, Inc. subsidiary has issued $325 million of 5.25 percent notes which will mature on November 15, 2012. Proceeds of the notes will be swapped to 272.6 million, effectively converting the seven-year U.S. notes to seven-year Euro notes with an annual interest rate of 3.55 percent. The proceeds of 272.6 million will provide replacement funding for part of a 300 million issue of 6.25 percent five-year notes which matured on October 25, 2005.
Cooper Industries, Ltd., with 2004 revenues of $4.5 billion, is a global manufacturer of electrical products and tools and hardware. Incorporated in Bermuda, the Company's administrative headquarters are in Houston, Texas. Cooper has approximately 29,000 employees serving more than 90 locations around the world, and sells products to customers in more than 50 countries. For more information, visit the Company's Internet site, .
www.cooperindustries.com


