FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20060217153240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 13, 2006, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Cooper Industries, Ltd. ("Cooper") approved compensation arrangements for the Chief Executive Officer and the other four most highly compensated executive officers. A summary of the current compensation arrangements for these executive officers is attached as Exhibit 10.1. Also, the Board of Directors approved changes to Coopers director compensation arrangements which are described on the attached Exhibit 10.2.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Effective February 14, 2006, H. J. Riley, Jr. retired as Chairman of Coopers Board of Directors under the Companys director tenure policy. The Board of Directors appointed Kirk S. Hachigian, President and Chief Executive Officer, to succeed Mr. Riley as Chairman.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
Following is a description of compensation arrangements that were approved by the Management Development and Compensation Committee ("Committee") of Cooper's Board of Directors on February 13, 2006 for the Chief Executive Officer and the other four most highly compensated executive officers in 2005 (the "Named Executive Officers").
 In recognition of the promotion of Mr. Kirk S. Hachigian to the additional position of Chairman of the Board, the Committee increased his annual base salary to $1,000,000 effective February 16, 2006. The current annual base salaries for the other Named Executive Officers are as follows:
Base Salary
Annual Incentive Compensation
The Management Annual Incentive Plan ("MAIP") is a bonus plan for senior executives that is designed to link executive compensation to achievement of our short-term business objectives. Participants can receive a bonus based on a percentage of their annual salary if Cooper meets threshold, good, target or maximum attainments. In determining the actual annual incentive award to be paid to an executive, the Committee may also consider the executive's individual performance objectives and personal contributions. The Committee may pay awards earned in cash or in Cooper Class A common shares or a combination of cash and shares. Subject to the Committee's approval, a participant in the MAIP may request to have all or a portion of his or her award paid in shares of Cooper stock.
In February 2005, the Committee established the performance goals and maximum bonus opportunities under the MAIP for Named Executive Officers and for other executive officers. The performance goals were based upon actual results compared to budgeted performance for 2005 on two financial measures: (1) earnings per share; and (2) free cash flow. Under the MAIP, the Committee has discretion to adjust the amount of any award that would otherwise be payable upon achievement of the performance goals based on its assessment of an individual's actual performance.
In February 2006, the Committee determined results under the MAIP for 2005 and awarded the following bonuses to the Named Executive Officers: K.S. Hachigian  $2,000,000, T. A. Klebe  $700,000, P. M. Isabella  $340,000, D. R. Sheil  $200,000, and G. L. Gawronski  $280,000. This determination was based on significant earnings per share growth and excellent cash flow performance. The Committee credited management with achieving strong earnings growth through a combination of strategic growth initiatives and stringent cost controls despite challenges presented by highly competitive market conditions and rapid increases in energy, commodity and raw material costs. The Committee also recognized Cooper's excellent cash flow performance accomplished through operating efficiencies and effective management of working capital. In determining 2005 incentive awards, the Committee provided additional bonus compensation outside the MAIP to Mr. Hachigian in recognition of extraordinary contributions following his promotion to Chief Executive Officer in May and to Mr. Klebe for contributions to development of effective strategies to resolve complex issues facing Cooper.
On February 13, 2006, the Committee established performance goals and maximum bonus opportunities for the Named Executive Officers and other executives under the MAIP for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. The performance goals for 2006 are based upon actual results as compared to budgeted performance on two financial measures: (1) earnings per share; and (2) free cash flow, with the award being determined by reference to a matrix of different performance levels.
The following table sets forth the minimum and maximum annual incentive award payouts for each of Cooper's Named Executive Officers based on the achievement of Cooper's performance criteria for the year ending December 31, 2006.
Stock Options
Cooper's Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based share awards to the Named Executive Officers and other key executives. On February 13, 2006 the Committee approved the following nonqualified stock option grants to the Named Executive Officers at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of Cooper's stock on the grant date.
All the stock option grants disclosed above vest in three equal annual installments and expire seven years after the grant date.
Performance Shares
On February 13, 2006 the Committee also set performance goals for performance-based share awards for the Named Executive Officers and other key executives for a three-year performance period beginning on January 1, 2006 and ending on December 31, 2008. The Committee set performance goals tied to the cumulative compound growth in earnings per share during the performance period. The Committee determined that compound earnings per share growth over the period of at least 4% was required before any award would be earned and at least 16% was required for a payout at the maximum level. The awards, to the extent earned, will be distributed in Class A common shares of Cooper. The following table presents information about the long-term incentive award granted in 2006 to the Named Executive Officers.

Exhibit 10.2
On February 14, 2006, Cooper's Board of Directors approved the following changes to its director compensation program: the presiding non-management director and Audit Committee chairman will each receive supplemental annual retainers of $15,000, and the chairman of the Management Development and Compensation Committee and Committee on Nominations and Corporate Governance will each receive supplemental annual retainers of $10,000. No changes were made to other provisions of the director compensation program which are described below.
Cooper pays nonemployee directors an annual retainer fee of $45,000. In addition, nonemployee directors are paid meeting attendance fees of $2,000 for regular Board meetings, $1,500 for regular committee meetings and $2,000 for special Board or committee meetings. The Board has established a stock ownership guideline of three times the annual retainer for each director.
In lieu of receiving the annual retainer and meeting fees in cash, each nonemployee director may elect, under the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, to defer receipt of such amounts until a date determined by the director or until retirement from the Board. Alternatively, each nonemployee director may elect to receive all or a portion of the annual retainer fee and meeting fees in Cooper Class A common shares instead of cash, under the Directors' Retainer Fee Stock Plan, which was approved by shareholders in April 1998. The Directors' Retainer Fee Stock Plan also provides that each nonemployee director may elect to defer the receipt of all or a portion of the shares of Cooper stock otherwise payable under the Plan.
Under the Directors' Stock Plan, which was approved by the shareholders in April 1996, each nonemployee director receives an annual stock award of 500 Cooper Class A common shares and 1,000 restricted stock units on each annual meeting date. Restricted stock units represent one Class A common share each and vest during the year following grant on a pro rata basis depending on the number of regularly scheduled Board meetings during the year. Restricted stock units are credited with additional shares equal to the amount of dividends that would have been paid on an equal number of outstanding shares. Upon a director's cessation of service on the board, restricted stock units are converted into Class A common shares and are distributed to the director in accordance with the director's payment election. Each newly elected or appointed nonemployee director receives, upon election or appointment, a pro rata stock and restricted stock unit award according to the time remaining before the next annual meeting date. Each nonemployee director may elect under the Directors' Stock Plan to defer receipt of all or a portion of the Class A common shares payable under the Plan until a date determined by the director or until retirement from the Board. Each nonemployee director is also granted annually a stock option for 2,000 shares at fair market value under the Directors' Stock Plan. The option vests on the third anniversary of the date of grant and has a 10-year term. As of December 31, 2005, options for 90,000 shares were outstanding under the Directors' Stock Plan.


