FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20060707161609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 6, 2006, Cooper Industries and other parties involved in the resolution of the Federal-Mogul Corporation bankruptcy proceeding reached a revised agreement regarding Coopers participation in Federal-Moguls 524(g) asbestos claimants trust. By participating in this trust, Cooper will resolve its liability for asbestos claims arising from Coopers former Abex products business. The proposed settlement agreement is subject to court approval, approval of 75% of the current Abex asbestos claimants and certain other approvals. The settlement will resolve more than 38,000 pending Abex claims. Future claims will be resolved through the bankruptcy trust, and Cooper will be protected against future claims by an injunction to be issued by the court upon plan confirmation. In addition to the terms for participation in the Federal-Mogul 524(g) trust, the revised agreement provides Cooper with a resolution of its claims against Federal-Mogul in the event that Cooper's participatio n in the Federal-Mogul 524(g) trust is not approved for any reason. Key terms and conditions of the settlement, including the identity of the parties to the agreement, are described in the Companys press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits 99.1 Company press release dated July 7, 2006 titled "Cooper Industries Reaches Revised Agreement To Resolve Abex Asbestos Liabilities Through Federal-Mogul Bankruptcy Trust."
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Yvonne Donaldson
713-209-8464
donaldson@cooperindustries.com
 Cooper Industries, Ltd. (CBE: NYSE) announced today that the Company and other parties involved in the resolution of the Federal-Mogul Corporation ("FMC") bankruptcy proceeding have reached a revised agreement regarding Cooper's participation in Federal-Mogul's 524(g) asbestos claimants' trust. By participating in this trust, Cooper will resolve its liability for asbestos claims arising from the Company's former Abex Friction Products business. The revised proposed settlement agreement is subject to court approval, to approval by 75 percent of the current Abex asbestos claimants and to certain other approvals. The settlement will resolve more than 38,000 pending Abex claims. Future claims will be resolved through the bankruptcy trust, and Cooper will be protected against future claims by an injunction to be issued by the court upon plan confirmation.
HOUSTON, July 7, 2006
Cooper sold its Automotive Products business, including its Abex Friction Products business, to FMC in October 1998 and was indemnified for liabilities related to the divested business, pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement. On Oct. 1, 2001, FMC and several of its affiliates filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition and indicated that FMC may not honor its indemnity obligations to Cooper, including its obligations for claims related to the Abex Friction Products business.
In mid-December 2005, Cooper and other parties involved in the FMC bankruptcy proceeding reached an agreement regarding Cooper's participation in Federal-Mogul's 524(g) asbestos claimants' trust. The proposed settlement agreement was subject to certain conditions, including the issuance of a preliminary injunction staying all of the pending Abex asbestos claims for which Federal-Mogul provided indemnification.
At a hearing on Jan. 20, 2006, FMC and other parties to the bankruptcy proceedings were unable to satisfy the court's requirements to grant the required preliminary injunction. As a result, the proposed settlement agreement required renegotiation of certain terms, which has now been completed.
"In addition to the terms for participation in the Federal-Mogul 524(g) trust, the revised agreement provides Cooper with a fair resolution of its claims against Federal-Mogul in the event that the revised settlement is not approved by the current Abex asbestos claimants or the bankruptcy court," said Kirk Hachigian, chairman, chief executive officer and president, Cooper Industries. "Given the costs of continued litigation, the uncertainty of legislative reforms and the
risks inherent in remaining in the tort system, we believe resolving the Abex liabilities through the trust is the preferable option for our shareholders. With this settlement in place, we will have certainty and finality regarding the Abex liability and can fully focus management resources on executing our strategic plan."
Key Terms and Aspects of the Revised Proposed Settlement Agreement
"Removing the Company's common stock as a component of the revised settlement agreement eliminates additional charges and reversals of charges that may have occurred to account for any changes in the market value of the Company's stock," said Terry Klebe, senior vice president and chief financial officer. "In addition, the agreement provides Cooper a significant cash payment in the event that we do not participate in the Federal-Mogul 524(g) trust along with additional upside from insurance recoveries in excess of the estimated recoveries currently reflected in the overall accrual." Although the payments related to the settlement could extend to 25 years and the collection of insurance proceeds could extend beyond 25 years, the liability and insurance will not be discounted on Cooper's balance sheet, as the amount of the actual annual payments is not reasonably predictable. Cooper anticipates taking an after-tax charge to "loss from discontinued operations" of between $20 million and $25 million in the second quarter ended June 30, 2006.
In addition to the Company, parties to the agreement include FMC; Federal-Mogul Products, Inc. ("FMP"); the Future Claimants' Representative for FMC and FMP appointed in the Chapter 11 cases known as In re Federal-Mogul Global Inc., T&N Limited, et al., No. 01-10578, pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware; the Official Committee of Asbestos Claimants for FMC and FMP appointed in the Reorganization Cases; Pneumo-Abex LLC; and PCT International Holdings Inc. These parties have agreed to the terms of the proposed settlement agreement.
Cooper Industries, Ltd. is a global manufacturer of electrical products and tools, with 2005 revenues of $4.7 billion, approximately 30 percent of which are international sales. Incorporated in Bermuda with administrative headquarters in Houston, Cooper employs approximately 29,000 people and operates eight divisions: Cooper B-Line, Cooper Bussmann, Cooper Crouse-Hinds, Cooper Lighting, Cooper Menvier, Cooper Power Systems, Cooper Wiring Devices and Cooper Tools Group. Cooper Connection provides a common marketing and selling platform for Cooper's sales to electrical distributors. For more information, visit the website at .
About Cooper Industries
www.cooperindustries.com


