FILE:CBE/CBE-8K-20081121170919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 21, 2008, Cooper Industries, Ltd. ("Cooper") announced that it is reducing earnings guidance for the fourth quarter 2008. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Cooper press release dated November 21, 2008 titled "Cooper Industries Reduces Q4 Earnings Guidance."
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

P.O. Box 4446 Houston, Texas 77210-4446
Cooper Industries
News Release
For Immediate Release
Jon Safran Cooper Industries 713-209-8610
For information contact:
jon.safran@cooperindustries.com
 Cooper Industries, Ltd. (NYSE:CBE) today announced that it expects fourth quarter results to be below the previous guidance range of $0.83 to $0.92 earnings per share, exclusive of restructuring charges.
HOUSTON, November 21, 2008
"We anticipated volatility in the markets when we issued guidance on our third quarter conference call on October 23," said Cooper Industries Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kirk S. Hachigian. "However, in the past few weeks we have seen business conditions worsen, driven by the unprecedented credit crisis and rapid appreciation of the U.S. dollar. Retail orders in certain businesses have declined significantly, as has quoting and shipping activity in light commercial and certain utility products. We also have seen some customers delay or re-quote projects and we anticipate further destocking of customer inventory levels as the quarter progresses. In the near-term, we expect unprecedented volatility and are reducing production levels to ensure we manage inventory levels, while maintaining customer service. The volatility in commodity prices also is creating a difficult pricing environment in some of our businesses, which impacts margins in the near-term. As a result, we felt it necessary to reduce current expectations and defer issuing new guidance until we have better visibility in terms of customer commitments and a more stabilized economic environment."
rd
"Although it is difficult to forecast the length and depth of a downturn, we continue to implement contingency plans that will reduce our cost structure, including planned production
shutdowns over the remainder of the year as well as the previously announced workforce reduction of 1,000 employees," said Hachigian.
"Looking beyond the current business environment, we remain very positive on the prospects for Cooper. We have an extremely strong balance sheet which provides us with excellent liquidity to manage through the downturn. We have a high quality portfolio of businesses with leading brands in global markets and the long-term structural trends remain compelling  the need for utilities to provide better reliability and productivity through energy demand management, the increasing need for electrical products to become more energy efficient, the global infrastructure build-out and the need to ensure safety of people at work and in their daily lives. Over the past several years, we have completed more than 20 acquisitions that have enabled us to build out key growth platforms and open new market opportunities for Cooper. Finally, we have a very strong and capable management team that will continue to execute in these uncertain times," concluded Hachigian.
Cooper Industries, Ltd. (NYSE: CBE) is a global manufacturer with 2007 revenues of $5.9 billion, approximately 87% of which are from electrical products.  Founded in 1833, Cooper's sustained level of success is attributable to a constant focus on innovation, evolving business practices while maintaining the highest ethical standards, and meeting customer needs.  The Company has eight operating divisions with leading market share positions and world-class products and brands including: Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fixtures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products.  With this broad range of products, Cooper is uniquely positioned for several long-term growth trends including the global infrastructure build-out, the need to improve the reliability and productivity of the electric grid, the demand for higher energy-efficient products and the need for improved electrical safety.  In 2007, sixty percent of total sales were to customers in the industrial and utility end-markets and 34% of total sales were to customers outside the United States.  Cooper, which has more than 31,500 employees and manufacturing facilities in 23 countries as of 2007, is incorporated in Bermuda with administrative headquarters in Houston, TX.  For more information, visit the website at .
About Cooper Industries
www.cooperindustries.com
Statements in this news release are forward looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's earnings outlook. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the Company, and actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Important factors which may affect the actual results include, but are not limited to: 1) competitive pressures and future global economic conditions,


